ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Wednesday 3 June 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by MP Chania of New Democracy Mr Manosou Voloudakis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The need for tacosy in Crete". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 746/28-5-2020 of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "As a result of the unusually high temperatures (burn) in the flowering of the olive." 3. The Question No 753/1-6-2020 by the Member of the Ilias Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Direct need to strengthen the hospitals and health centres of Elias". 4. The Question No 756/1-6-2020 by F' Vice President of Parliament and Member of Parliament Laris of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Damage due to quarantine and heavy rainfall in Thessaly." 5. The question under number 744,25-2020, by MP Mera25, by Maria Apatzidis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Supporting the breeding and trading of snails’. B. PERSONS OF second-cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question, under number 747/29-5-2020, by MP Rethymnon of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Unjustifiable requirements for expenditure on private radiotherapies to cancer patients for radiation therapies." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 759/1-6-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "National Defence Plan and Operational Programmes and Contracts with ODA and OSH". 3. The question under number 761/1-6-2020 is a topical question by MP B3' South Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Pappas to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'The exclusion of the majority of enterprises from TEPIX II liquidity tools and the repayable advance'. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 5703/10-4-2020 asked by MP Phthytidis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Sarakiotis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “Provocative and splendid increases by ELGA in the invoicing of the insured value of the olive of the Kalamon variety.” Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food on the subject: "Applications for responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food for the upgrading and modernisation of the agricultural sector". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 28 May 2020 to discuss the draft law in two meetings. Today's sitting will be discussed and the bill will be passed in principle. At tomorrow's meeting the articles of the bill will be discussed and voted on as a unity and the whole of the bill. In today's debate, the rapporteurs and the special speakers will be present for 15 minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives for twelve minutes, the speakers on the list for seven minutes and the Minister responsible for eighteen minutes in accordance with Rules 64, 96 and 97 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I therefore propose that the parties be represented in proportion to their parliamentary power with a circle of forty speakers as follows: twenty-two from the New Democracy, twelve from the SYRIZA, three from the Change Movement, two speakers from the Communist Party and one speaker from the Greek Solution and the Mer25. Speaking time will be seven minutes. I think we have no objection to the proposed procedure. The House agrees unanimously. I would like to ask you to keep as long as we can, because at 6 p.m. the Chamber must be handed over for the third session of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media for the Ministry of Education bill. If the list is not exhausted now and there are few colleagues left, they will precede tomorrow any list we will have before us. So they won't lose their right to speak, but at 6 p.m. we'll stop the meeting. Minister, Mr. Voridis, do you have any legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u2	We have and we'll testify. They're at the Government Secretariat and they're coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u3	As soon as possible, please, so that Members can have them in front of them and in your speech I would ask you to say what you are accepting and what you are not. The New Democracy's general rapporteur, Mr Dionyssiou Stamenitis, is therefore called on to step up the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the House today to discuss the draft law entitled 'Regions of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food on the upgrading and modernisation of the agricultural sector'. During the meetings in the Committee on Production and Trade there was a thorough discussion and a detailed discussion of the provisions of the draft law, which is about to regulate and, in fact, to settle a number of issues relating to agriculture, livestock and fisheries. These are issues that are chronological, but they have not found the solution. And the direct consequence of all these failures, gaps and ambiguities that exist today in the legislation is the failure to implement the policies of the Ministry and thus the stability of the industry as a whole, but also the great, of course, suffering of the citizens who are active in this area. The leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food reveals, in the preparation of this bill, that it puts a step forward in the legislative framework of issues which occur in the agricultural and livestock sectors and in the rural economy in general, first by the legislation on agricultural cooperatives, which changed the institutional framework, solved problems and regulated issues, which were for years a brake on the proper functioning of cooperatives. Now, with this draft law, it seeks a comprehensive set of issues to settle, cover legislative gaps, correct ambiguities in a wide range of its areas of responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth pointing out, before we move on to the analysis of the points of the bill, that the specific legislative initiative of the Ministry's leadership is yet another proof that there is an integrated plan, implemented in constant steps. The development of the primary sector, its emergence in a key pillar of the country's reconstruction is a strategic option for the current government, and perhaps the debate on its role in the development of the economy and its place in the reconstruction of the country, following the unprecedented experience of the coronary, is more up-to-date and at the same time more imperative than ever. And that's because the pandemic experience has shown us that we need to be ready for any possibility. And when they get dimensions like those of the coronary pandemic, with hits on multiple fronts, like health or the economy, in this case we have to be able to recover quickly. For our country, the primary sector is such a weapon in our patronage. It is a tool that allows us through proper management, to be able to make decisive use of the effort to restart the economy. The globalised world we live in, of which we are a part, apart from the benefits it offers, hides and risks. Exogenous agents may force us into emergency policies. That is why the country must be shielded, ready to respond to the challenges. Therefore, more general agricultural policy needs to be developed through a comprehensive planning rather than a fragmentation. So part of this plan is today's draft law we are debating, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, in committee, there were suspicions that the bill is not so important, it solves problems, but it only regulates some minor loose ends, and in fact farmers, the professionals in the sector were expecting other than the government. Those who believe this are wrong and are wrong because, as I said at committee meetings, 'If you do not solve the small ones, how will you regulate the big ones'? and "If you do not settle the outstandings you have, how will you proceed to new designs?" In this context, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law contains provisions which deal with problems of time. The main points of the proposed plan concern provisions providing for the establishment and operation of the national electronic apiculture register in the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, an information database aimed at establishing a single system for the recording, inventorying and identification of all beekeepers and beekeeping capital, regulating the major issue of Hellenisation and mimeism. The first intervention in this direction is stricterisation through modifications and abolition, a stricterisation of the range of administrative fines relating to the food sector for infringements relating to the place of production, origin or processing. The Ministry's leadership, implementing its commitment to combating the phenomenon of mimicism and illegal Hellenism, mainly concerned with the protection of Greek products and by extension of Greek producers and consumers from unfair practices, proceeds to tighten up the legislative framework, both at the level of administrative fines and at the level of criminal regime. We have to say that, with the provisions currently in force, these phenomena were, in fact, not punishable at all. The administrative penalties in question were fragmentary and particularly obsolete, thus creating a common view among producers and traders that the fragmentation and the appropriate sanctions have substantially contributed to the growth of the phenomenon, in particular of illegal Greek products. We all know that the great losers of most financial damage in this situation are producers and processors of their products, and clearly the Greek consumer, who believes that he is buying more and actually consumes more. Second intervention, it is the integration of undertakings producing and marketing eggs consumed in the single ‘ARTEMIS’ database, with the aim of achieving effective traceability balance control and addressing unfair practices, in particular Greekisations. In particular, it is envisaged to extend the responsibilities of the ‘PIMTA’ ELG to the control of Union standards for the marketing and movement of eggs using balances. At the same time, arrangements are included for the overall regulation of the issues of the agricultural accounting information network, which amends and supplements provisions concerning the functioning and the work of the national committee. For fisheries and the development of aquaculture by means of provisions on the regulation of fisheries and the imposition of sanctions against fishing vessels and the regulation of operating areas for organised aquaculture. For veterinary medicinal products by amending provisions regulating the sale of veterinary medicinal products, separating wholesale shops from any other shop, veterinary clinic, veterinary surgeons and animal selling shop. For propagating material of certain hemp varieties for medical reasons by clarifying issues in order to ensure the proper functioning of the demanding hemp culture units, facilitate the work of the audit authorities in the event of divergence from legislation and ensure the horizontal application of the institutional framework. With regard to fertiliser provisions, the administrative procedure for assessing new types of fertilisers from urban or industrial waste is simplified. This is achieved by decoupling them from relevant previous decisions which either do not fall within or have been repealed. It should be noted, however, that traffic conditions for new types of fertiliser are stricter than those for 1991. For land improvements by clarifying the legislation in force with a view to specifying all matters related to the transfer of the Ministry's top-down works to the municipalities, as well as specifying that the allocation of the necessary appropriations and the approval of the implementation of the defined costs of administration, operation, maintenance of the top-up works, approved by the Improvement Agency and currently charged with the public investment budget, may also be carried out by the budget of the region concerned which supervises that body. Finally, for livestock establishments, the deadline for the issue of authorisations for the establishment of livestock establishments of all categories is extended until 31 December 2020 for the submission of a request by farmers wishing to continue the operation of their livestock establishments operating or operating near residential areas in accordance with the existing provisions in the relevant GAEC. In addition, provisions are introduced aimed at improving the legislative and regulatory framework of the supervised bodies of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. Problems identified in the functioning of the legal section of the ELGA due to the volume of cases on the one hand and the lack of staff on the other hand make it necessary to staff with further legal staff. Electoral issues are still regulated by the Agricultural Chamber of Deputies of Greece, extending the term of office of the board of directors from three to four years. In other words, a key request from GEOTE, the main objective of which is the smooth operation and better management of the Geotechnical Chamber, is to be achieved. At the same time, by amending the existing regulations, the institutions of GEOTE are becoming more flexible and the costs resulting from members' representation costs are reduced. The proposed draft law also includes financial arrangements related to the payment of remunerations paid by private breeders who were hired by the regions of the country for the implementation of the eradication and control programme for ovine and caprine brucellosis and bovine herds in 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, since the start of the country's governance, one of the main objectives of the New Democracy Government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has been to modernise the structures of the state, to combat bureaucracy, but also to reduce the obstacles that have in many cases created ambiguities and failures in legislation. In this spirit, the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, a ministry that supervises, regulates and legislates the most complex, due to the nature and particular features, but also one of the most important sectors, the country's primary sector. Therefore, according to all of the above and also taking into account the other legislative initiatives and the interventions of the Ministry, it is understood that the proposed draft law is a part of the puzzle of the more general planning for the development of the primary sector and also the development of a comprehensive policy aimed at supporting the people of the land and the countryside as well as those who work with them. At the next meeting we will be able to see the individual elements of the bill more thoroughly and perhaps discuss issues and issues that will arise from today's meeting. In conclusion, I would like to stress that this draft law interferes with important issues, such as the one in Hellenism, mimeism. It's really the beginning. But stricter penalties are the most important weapon to fight. There are other issues in the bill smaller, perhaps twenty-nine, and it gives a solution to the issues of time on the shelf. That is why I think this important intervention is to take the primary sector a step forward. It will, in fact, be a great surprise if parties and MPs are found not to vote in favour of this plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u5	The general rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Vassilis Kokalis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, it is introduced to the plenary for debate and vote, today on the principle and tomorrow on the basis of an article, the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development. Minister, we are not going to deceive the bill as a Qualified Opposition, because it contains several provisions which were prepared by previous leaderships as well, but also contains provisions that are introduced for the first time by you. We will, however, devaluate your attempt to present this bill as a cut-off, a bill with innovative solutions and a bill that gives a solution to many issues such as the Greeks. I'm becoming more specific. At the time when the headline of the bill refers to the modernisation and upgrading of the primary sector, while Members of the Co-Police are talking about an innovative bill, at the same time you yourself at the first meeting of the bill said that it did not introduce anything new. You try to overshadow the substance of the case by diligently and sometimes successfully creating the unexistent work in the Ministry of Rural Development and the lack of strategic policies for the primary sector. Your tactics, the overthrow of the substance with issues that are purely communication, are now science. In particular, you are showing a strict criminal provision, but at the same time you are hiding, you are not talking about the detection procedure for the offender. Profile diligently the profile of the bill, that it is against Hellenism, while hiding at the same time that it is a completely fragmentary incorporation of Regulation 625/2017. You strongly promote the strictness of sanctions in Greekism, but at the same time hide that there are no provisions on fraud in food. Let's all remember that you flagged that the Greeks now end. There was an important effort, severe penalties, three years in prison for violating the guaranteed PDO marks. But here, it comes up and you deliberately hide it, but it's your tactics. It reminds me of the defence duty in the courts, the overthrow of the substance, so that we can create a profile specific. Sulphur in food. You say that you are severely penalising the penalties, the provision by which anyone who imports, exports, stores, moves in the consumption of foodstuffs which are frustrated, is punished for what is most urgent. In particular, what did Article 27 of 2014 say? It shall be punished by imprisonment of at least three months. What does the provisions on food fraud now say? ‘With a three-month imprisonment or a penalty of money’. Diagnostics! Oper means if the defendant receives a lightning, it probably goes with the minimum of the penalty. I'm sorry, is that the tightening? Anybody who distorts can be punished by a six-month prison sentence or by a penalty sentence? At least you did not leave the same provision, 'three months' prison and a penalty'. Clearly it has been made more urgent, Mr Minister. Clearly. I continue in a paradox, which you must remove, not today, yesterday. The legislator here today goes on to say: 'If these fraudulent foods are harmful...'. And I wonder: Is there any chance that the deceased will not be harmful to health? Minister, if that is the case, there are two provisions. One, which provides for three years in prison, is correct and the other, which provides for three months. Minister, there are two provisions with the same objective status in the case of products harmful to public health. It's two sets.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u7	With different contents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u8	No, it's just the same. Anyone with intent produces, imports, exports, stores, moves or moves into consumption food which is distorted and goes in case of (b) if it is harmful, then there are two provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u9	So she's illegitimate and harmful.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u10	No, in the event of doubt, Minister, the best will be applied to the defendant. You have to withdraw that yesterday. Is that a tightening up for the offenders? Is that the strictness of those who distort, trade, move food? Is that the tightening of food harmful to public health? To have two provisions at the same time, one that is favorable to the offender, the other not? Your work, however, we have said, is diligent and sometimes successful, trying to create a work that does not actually exist. That's all about the Hellenisms. In passing, Minister, you clearly put the legislation of 2017 on ice, and you did not have the political courage to support it, to support your vote, Mr.4492/2017, on compulsory labelling of milk and meat and decisions taken after this law. It is a law that you too considered positive and owed, so it works a wise political leadership since you have voted for this law to try to find out where it is concerned to improve it in order to modernise the institutional framework that you have voted in 2017, and not to put on ice legislation that met requests from the livestock world and consumers. I will not say that all the problems have been solved by this law. Don't move your head. Once you have voted for him to say 'yes, I will improve him, I will modernize him'. And you come all these days and say that you're hitting the Hellenisms. By what process will you find the offender? You come and say that you are hitting Greekisms when there are provisions in the bill that are more favourable to those who distort food than 2014. Read, make a comparison from the devices. ‘At least six months and a penalty of money’ means the 2014 Legislation on food fraud and now ‘six months or a financial penalty’. But this work, being diligently concealed and contemplating the substance of the case, also goes on with others about the bill, such as the industrial cannabis. Observe and silence that industrial cannabis is ecologically cultivated. Prevent that it is suitable for investments. You're hiding it. You are not saying that it is an alternative crop and it is of interest to many farmers. At the same time, however, you are targeting it and you say that industrial cannabis has psychotropic substances to activate the most conservative reflexes. No, Minister! Cannabis industrial has preconditions and psychotropic substances. You're making a big mistake. You hide that in most of the members of the European Union the tolerance is 1%. Hide how many exceedances of the tolerance limit have been in the last three years. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the common fisheries policy. You hide that the Minister for Rural Development has had the opportunity and, if a variety exceeds the limit, to withdraw it. But you don't have a plan on any crop. Honestly, can you tell me which crop do you have a plan? I would like to give you a parallel on beet. With regard to customs producers, Minister, the main and permanent customer was one, the Sugar Industry. It went bankrupt and the customs producers were left behind.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u11	Did you pay them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u12	Where do I conclude, on the farming strategy? Don't stay viewers in the strategic needs of the primary sector. Have you seen in the industrial cannabis that the farmer can also be a legal person? Have you seen it on another crop? We have linked - because that is the right policy - the primary sector, the farmers and the processing. These two must at the same time move forward and be combined. Finally, you hide that there is a 'grey' zone in the products of industrial cannabis, and at the moment industrial cannabis products are imported from abroad when we can produce them. Really, is that the answer you give to the production model, that is to say, import products while we can produce them? And you're telling us we didn't have a strategy, that we didn't have a plan for the primary sector? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be in two minutes, Mr. President, and thank you for your tolerance. I would consider the cumulative existence of two provisions describing the same offence to be a failure. One is punished by three years in prison and the other by six months. That's what you need to see. We will speak more thoroughly tomorrow and the debate on this matter. We'd like you to solve a misunderstanding, Minister - you're a good man - for the ELGA. You know that I don't want to impersonate - and I never do, I never interrupt my interlocutor - any difference. Respectfully, Mr Harakopoulos said about ELGA at the second sitting - I read the Minutes - 'The signatory Member and the DOCUMENTO hosting the declaration want to legalise the falsification of the Minutes, because nowhere shows that I wished to do so.' I read, perhaps I am wrong: 'I believe that farmers' insurance should be compulsory. If it is not compulsory, a major issue will arise, which we will find before us, if farmers are not obliged to insure their production and are dependent on their patriotism or interest. We will find ourselves in the difficult position, Mr President, to have uninsured farmers who will be damaged." I'm not talking. If that's falsification, it's in your judgment. Secondly, solve the matter. In other words, say that there is no question of abolishing the requirement, there is no question of the private sector coming in, because the private sector alone can enter and not be at the same time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u13	Finish this, Mr. Red.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u14	In any case, you say that there is no need. Solve us this misunderstanding so we can continue in the bill. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u15	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Harakopoulos, this isn't a personal matter. We're not on vacation. You're written to speak. I'll give you a minute more to say the thing you want to say now in order to defend yourself. We proceed with the special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr. Apostolos Pana. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary a draft law on matters of responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. It is a draft law, however, which the government has chosen to submit on agricultural issues at this time, which in essence has nothing new to give to the primary sector. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the Change Movement during the ten months of the government's term of office have not stopped highlighting the pathogens that hamper the progress of the farmer and the agri-food sector in general in the country. We have shown years of problems that afflict the agricultural sector and make it difficult for the everyday life of the farmer, such as the high cost of production and especially of energy, the over-taxation of farmers and the linking of insurance contributions to agricultural incomes, the lack of the elementary functioning of the banking system and the lack of liquidity, the targeting of livestock farming and the exacerbation of Greekisations, the failure to adapt the ELGA insurance regulation and the lack of fundamental preparation for the increasing damages from climate change, and we know very well that the time of compensation has increased very much. There is also incomplete, indifferent application of minimum rules on the market in products, so that the production of milk, olive oil, cotton and other products is the result of harmonised practices which are accompanied by very long sales tariffs for their products. At the same time, the high delay in the implementation and failure of the lawnmower in recent years actually depreciates olive cultivation and reduces the income of producers. We also have a delay in taking advantage of the 2014-2020 rural development programme, since, as we well know, in many areas, the improvement plans for the modernisation of farms have not yet gone ahead, the improvement projects to reduce irrigation costs. It is also delaying the creation of a network for the marketing of products. They delay programmes to protect against the dangers of climate change. There has been a substantial failure in the programmes for organic and agricultural livestock and, of course, the necessary measure has not been taken for agricultural consultants. What does that mean? It seems that the interest shown by young farmers in dealing with their profession is not exploited by the government. We observe this impossibility of supporting our country's interests and products in the European Union and in international agreements, as well as the protection of PDO products, such as feta and the protection of olive oil from unfair conditions and actions. In all this, there is not a national strategic plan for the primary sector, not only for its development but mainly for the recovery of Community funds over the period 2021-2027. All this time we have proposed solutions and alternative policies with a coherent programme. We are the first to talk about 'green' development, 'intelligent' agriculture, rural education in new cultivation methods, addressing the impact of climate change and the timely protection of the interests of them. We have demonstrated all these years and over our previous governments that our aim has always been for the primary sector to have a leading role in the economy of the country, that the farmer should be treated by the state as a professional, with decent income, with prospects of development and not be on the sidelines of society that are outlawed and underestimated. The Greek countryside has always been the support and consistent link of local societies and economies. In the period of crisis, however, other parameters have been added. With the overall reorientation of the country's economic model and the review of the productive growth prospects, the primary sector seems to be the sector we need to invest if we want to get out of the crisis, crisis and the crisis we are experiencing at the moment, which has caused the restrictive measures during the expansion of the coronary. In the face of the economic and social deadlocks involved, agricultural policy can also be adapted with the appropriate educational and financial tools to provide a profitable solution and a profitable way out. So we cannot talk, on the basis of this draft law, about the overall policy of the Government in the agricultural sector over the last ten months, since the draft law is a stirring-up of procedural arrangements and amendments to the existing framework, without, of course, revising the positive contribution of many of these amendments to the treatment of certain geographical strangles. The two-day debate seems to us to be the only thing that has been done to highlight the problems in the agricultural sector, which are growing, and because of the Koroni crisis they are dating, where the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development has so far not been able to provide a solution to them. Since the first moment of our position on the bill, we have focused our criticism on the choice of the time when it was tabled, given that its theme does not solve the farmer's basic problem at the moment, which is the absence of sufficient funding. Minister, the EUR 150 million allocated by the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Rural Development was characterised by the Movement of Change drops in the ocean, as there is no parallel regulation of the farmers' fixed obligations. What about the insurance obligations, operating costs, production costs, while for the remaining categories of professionals affected, have relief measures been announced to enable them to function? So the farmer is a second and third-class professional? You, Minister, have said from the outset that support measures will be directed to farmers who are, in fact, affected. Yes, sir. Can you today, after two and a half months of crisis, safely say which categories of farmers have not been affected? They may not all have been hurt, we hear that, but they have all been hurt to some extent. Is EUR 150 million enough to support this world? The farmers, as we have all said, were the first to be affected by the failure to sell the lambs and their whole products in Easter. Fishermen are then unable to sell catch to focus areas and to tourist enterprises. We have asked you a number of questions about all the agricultural sectors and each individual, proposing solutions at the same time. We have been criticising you all this time, at the same time having specific proposals for the rural world. Unfortunately, not only can you not implement our own proposals, but we have not seen you implement well - or your agricultural government's programme. So where is the notorious restructuring of the ELGA regulation, which you yourself have been talking about? The issue covered by this bill is a matter of legal service. Not a word, then, of the timetable for completing the restructuring of the regulation. Clearly, there must be an institutional framework for adequate staffing of the legal service. We recognize that. But does such an organization, with such a large volume of issues, have anything else to add? Should the primary issue not, therefore, be - especially when we have extreme weather phenomena, which completely destroy the rural areas, which fly to the canvas for life-long efforts - be the part of the compensation? A few days ago, at my place, in Halkidiki, on a tour, I saw that the damage actually destroyed once again a large part of the compensation. Unfortunately, farmers' compensation from the catastrophic hails since last year has not yet been completed. So there should be essentially the activation of a mechanism for speeding up this process so that farmers affected are compensated as quickly as possible and reintroduced into the production process. It is not possible for the ELGA regulation to remain in the data of the last decade, when data is constantly changing, at a rapid rate. Let us not forget, moreover, that the last substantial regulation of the institutional framework of the Agency was made by Mr L.3877/2010 on the PASOK Government. This should therefore be regulated in this bill, since it is intended to regulate gaps and shortcomings in the past, which prevent the exercise of the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development. Another major issue is the authorisation of livestock establishments. In recent years an extension has been given after the other and the problem is not solved. There are farmers' voices, which say that what is needed is a total change in the process of gathering and lodging the necessary documents. Also, many are talking about the need to change town plans from the municipalities, while on the one hand the responsibility lies primarily with the forests, which are unduly delaying the process. Because of these delays and delays, therefore, the administration of the Ministry of Rural Development has come to demand that the aid received by young farmers be repaid and literally destroyed by them once they have been affected by the crisis. Moreover, the problems of young farmers do not stop here, as traits say ten enter the profession while nine come out. There are no funding programmes. The absorption of European funds is limited and the incentives are constantly decreasing. Where, then, is the State's interest in the producer? To sum up, therefore, specific issues are pending and we expect answers to a number of practical issues that have so far not been seen and which we have raised throughout the period of restrictive measures against the coronary. Measures that will facilitate production and give economic breath to the rural world, such as low-private lending as working capital, making use of correspondingly available financial instruments, specialising the support measures you have announced for fishermen and in general for fisheries, given that - we have said so many times from this Step - that exports have suffered a great deal of damage. What is still going to happen with the debts to the insurance funds and the tax? Will there be - and this is a big question - a direct payment of the outstanding 2019 allowances? Will Community aid be made more rapid, so that by using advance payments farmers and farmers can secure the liquidity they need? Will the criteria for the reimbursement of compensation be changed to increase the number of beneficiaries? How will the amount of EUR 446 million, returned to Greece by decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, be used to strengthen the rural economy and to extend the possibilities of rural activities and production, by increasing grazing areas? From what part of the state budget - a big question, why have you already announced it - will farmers be subsidised, as this category of farmers will be subsidised by state funds, while the others will be financed, as you announced from non-State funds? And since I have spoken to farmers, one of the most affected agricultural sectors, especially in the last few years, why do you not propose with the bill under discussion any favourable innovative regulations for livestock farming? Finally, I refer to Article 28 of the draft law under discussion, entitled 'No compliance with the labelling of indications such as PDO, PGI, SPD', which, as you claim, is an innovation. Innovation because it provides in addition to administrative and new criminal sanctions for illegal Greekism, as stated in the article. Our prolongation has shown by every appropriate means the phenomenon of Hellenism. We have called for the phenomenon to be addressed, starting with the intensification and increase of controls by the competent authorities and ensuring publicity through the FIFG. Obviously, we do not disagree with the tightening of fines and the criminalisation of the Greeks. We believe, however, that the thread must be caught from the beginning and not from the middle and, of course, from the end. It therefore needs an integrated plan to combat this phenomenon, which is a real scourge to agricultural income, but also to try to protect the consumer's interests. It is not enough to include provisions, and there is a need for a debate on the whole matter with the opening-up of perhaps a public debate on this time-consuming problem. With regard to the specific points on the articles of the bill of interest in comment, I shall refer to my second language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u19	We move forward with the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Diamanto Manolakos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. It is a bill that has nothing to do with the development of the rural economy, the quality and volume of agricultural products produced to meet the needs of the people at food quality, safe and affordable prices, but also the needs of the industry in raw materials, such as wheat, flour, bread, pasta or Daddy, yarn, cloth, cloth or even the livestock sector and livestock products, since, as is well known, we are in deficit in livestock products and billions are paid each year for imports. However, I would like to say that such a design with the capitalist way of production you cannot do it, because competition for profit and therefore the anarchy of production is true. There is no way you can do it more within the framework of the common agricultural policy. It is possible to implement this only with the scientific central planning, where the country's territorial advantages and the experience of the people will be exploited and productivity improved. In other words, only in a socialist society can such design be made with socialized basic means of production and land and production criteria, not, of course, the profit of the capitalist which will not exist, but the satisfaction of the people's needs. However, it is characteristic that all these days of the debate in the committee there was no real controversy about the government bill by SYRIZA and the Change Movement, but it seems that you are voting together. To hide your slander, however, you are developing controversy and supposedly quarrel on issues that do not exist in the bill and are creating a climate of supposedly disagreement. Such a question, which is not contained in the bill and there is controversy, is, for example, the CETA agreement. However, you are both hiding the truth in order to extinguish and not to reveal the European Union that sold the protected designation of origin of feta in the bazaars in order to favour European monopolies. This is how the game 'dives and I get' is played, but not for the people, but for the profit of the capitalists. So what are you hiding? That it is growing competition in the meat and milk sectors, since on the basis of EUROSTAT data, it is more than 40% of the value of agricultural production in the European Union. That is why he has created and promoted directions which are exploited in the context of protectionist policy. For example, by guaranteeing certain products with strict standards, known as PDO, as is Greek feta cheese. When negotiating trade agreements with Canada, which are known as CETA, and with South Africa and within the framework of the agreements on the abolition of customs duties facilitating monopolistic groups and ensuring maximum freedom of movement for capital and, of course, extending their scope to large markets, recognition by these countries of a number of certifications granted by the European Union, such as PDO products, etc., has been guaranteed, with few exceptions, but I stress this. One of these exceptions is feta. This is a name that, under conditions, Canada and South Africa will also be able to use. That is the truth, that the feta has fallen victim to the capitalists' bargaining and many appreciate that its demand will grow. Also, in monopolistic competition, if it is inconsistent, and that is what the European Union's staff who promote urban strategy are well aware of, what is the objective? The European Union must maintain and increase its lead as the largest supplier of agricultural products and foodstuffs in international markets. This is an objective that is of particular importance if we consider the assessments of the World Food Organisation, the FAO, to increase by 70% the demand for food by 2050. Are these developments taking into account? Which, along with the recent experience of the coronary pandemic seems more clearly the need and value of securing domestic food and bringing in a bill for discussion? No, of course not. So what is it that you are promoting and pursuing with this bill? It is a bill with articles of different content and object, scattered and unfunctional connections between them and, at the same time, it is mainly to manage the crystallised malfunctions of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and supervised organisations, adapt them to European Community relays and regulations, serve the needs of the capital that is active in the field of agri-food, make facilities and perhaps also ruffles, establish and collect compensation fees or state aid from cooperatives that have been granted many years ago and has not been approved by the European Commission. This is a process initiated by SYRIZA and of course the New Democracy is continuing today. On this point, I would like to stand a little further because you did not answer many questions, such as, for example, who will get them when the associations of agricultural cooperatives have been dissolved or when the cooperative 'AGMO' has been sold to 'COLIO', which went bankrupt and has been taken as a union and is in liquidation. Also, as other colleagues have said, there are risks for larger and worse fines than when there is no modification for the doses you propose. But you insist, although we have proposed the withdrawal of Article 19, since we believe that there is sufficient scope for renegotiation and limitation in the current conditions when state aid is given in a simple way by all governments and by Greek business groups. Already, the German Government grants EUR 9 billion to LUFTHANSA or even in June, July, the advance payment of the basic aid in the form of a state-owned loan, i.e. six months earlier. You see, therefore, that state aid is not currently being hampered, but, twenty-six, twenty-eight years before it was considered illegal, because it was then for cooperatives, today it is for large business groups. Of course, the anisometry and the different needs of the Member States in the socio-economic sector are not taken into account, except for the needs of capital. You are accusing us, Minister, that we have not noticed the krone of the bill, which is the last three articles, which refer to the administrative and criminal sanctions of those producing, importing, exporting, storing, handling, handling or placing on the market of distorted foods. Why didn't he impress us? For decades we have become accustomed to legislation which has been penalised, but which is not implemented for various reasons, especially because the urban system does not protect the bio-producer or the worker or the self-employed small-professional, but rather to the profitability of the medieval, industrial, business, the banker of capital. The laws as a whole in the civil system serve them, and when they are seized to win more, then you amend the laws so that they do not have any obstacles to their business profitability. In this case, we say that these three articles are positive and positive because you better system the offences and add the illegality of Hellenism. But it's not enough. Why? Firstly, if there is no recruitment of staff at the Office and at the Ministry of Rural Development and Food in order to be able to carry out checks, then illegality cannot be detected and these penalties will be left on paper. Secondly, there are cases where large industries make the Greek-minded norms, that is to say they have factories abroad, usually in the Balkans, buy the raw material poppy, milk, make cheese at low labour costs and bring it to their factory in Greece, pack it with their patent and name. I would say good, but their production is only in the country. Thirdly, alternative money sentences or imprisonment are new, because there was only one prison sentence before. This will not bring about some improvement in the price that the producer is buying, for example in milk, because the problem of low prices in producer and compensation is due to the immunity of the monopolies that you are all protecting, which are actually controlling production and blackmailing farmers. Fourthly, we have had some questions as to whether there is a difference between consciousness and possible fraud. We, Mr Voridis, accept the interpretation that the addition of intent that distorts each case, that is to say, when the act has been completed with a possible delusion. It would be a good thing if the penalty were the same in both cases, both of the immediate and potential fraudulent. At least that is expressed in the legislature's intention. However, we do not think that it was necessary to add with intent which is constantly repeated in the last two Articles 28 and 29 to exclude the event of the breach being punished by negligence. And this is because as a crime it is only persecuted by a persecutor, as the Criminal Code says. If the legislator wanted to be persecuted and negligently persecuted, his performance would have to clearly define it. There was also an increase in the sentence when there was relapse, that is, more than twice had fallen into the same crime. It doesn't exist now. All in all, then, I would say that you may argue that the various articles have been put forward by the services and so it may also be the bill to have a technocratic character, that it passes some corrective actions in the existing institutional framework and in its operation, but the main thing is that it comes to shielding the policy in place. This is why it comes to nothing to improve the lives of small and medium-sized farmers, nor to protect production and better service farmers, by serving public services and supervised agencies. On the contrary, the problems exist, they are exacerbated - and new ones have come to be added to the pandemic - and no substantial response has yet been given by the government to farmers and farmers who have suffered damage. Thousands take the capital and the processors and the big traders, we understand that you are preparing to give the sheep and goat farmers and that after two months' consideration. For these reasons and others that we are going to have to develop in this debate, we are voting in favour of the draft legislation at first instance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u21	We continue with our colleague, a special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr. Vasiliardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. In today's sitting we will be referring more generally to the primary sector and the principle of the bill, which is extremely poor, and in tomorrow's articles we will concentrate on the most important, especially in the last three articles, which are perhaps the most important, since they will help to protect Greek products, if they are accompanied by serious control mechanisms. However, we hope that the difference between agricultural production and agricultural incomes, which includes agricultural subsidies and is almost twice as high as production, will have been understood. We will, however, begin with the timeliness and the fact that the EUR 500 billion of the European Union's planned grants has already been EUR 440 billion, since EUR 60 billion will be allocated to the guarantees of the Member States, while the way in which they are shared has not yet been determined and it should be preceded by the adoption of the twenty-seven parliaments plus the European Parliament. In addition, there will be conditions in the sense that each country must prepare its own recovery plan for its use to be assessed and approved by the Commission. This money will then be disbursed gradually in line with the progress made in each country's growth rate. Each state will contribute some sums to the European Union to repay these 440 billion that the Commission will borrow from the markets. That's a lot of theory. In any case, this amount should be deducted from the subsidy as it will be paid back. So even if it is right that the sum of 22.5 billion that Greece is supposed to receive will be lower, significantly lower. As far as 250 billion is concerned, we are probably entitled to 9.5 billion, these will be loans, while rather strict conditions will be adopted, so it is not something that one should include. So it's too early for triumphs. What we need to be concerned about now is the recession that may exceed 10% if the tourist season does not develop positively, which would mean a fall in our GDP of at least 170 billion, so that GDP rises to 210%, without even a new borrowing and budgetary deficit. The private sector would also have a similar development in terms of its red debt, corporate bankruptcy, unemployment and so on, with the result that banks would need new capital, since the HARAKLIS project will certainly not be enough, nor was it ever. If the recession is shaped at 10%, then our GDP will fall, as we said at 170 billion, and public revenues will be reduced by at least EUR 5 billion, while expenditure will increase by 14 billion, if the budgetary measures announced by the government are so much more than we have ever been confirmed, despite our constant questions. Therefore, the budget deficit will be around EUR 19 billion or about 11% of GDP of 170 billion, reminding us that we went bankrupt in 2010 with almost so much. In other words, it will be almost as much as the subsidy we will receive in the next four years from the Reconstruction Fund, but, as we have pointed out, it will be lower if our participation is withdrawn. In such a case, the deficit of 19 billion cannot be covered by the public bodies' available resources. So if we do not borrow any more money from the markets, our gross debt in terms of our GDP will remain at 210%, but with the increase in net. It is not clear whether the available 37 billion available on 31-12-2019 have been deducted from the debt of 356 billion. But even if our public debt remains at 210% of GDP, is it possible to survive? Will this not be judged by the rating companies and will it not bring us back to the degree of'small' by creating huge problems in our bonds, banks and businesses in terms of interest rates and their viability? In relation to our next problem, it is when we will receive subsidies from the European Union Reconstruction Fund and how we will make available both these and the new NSRF if we assume that we will survive the recession and that we will not get problems from the 210% debt. In this regard, their only reasonable use is to make them available to change our failed economic model that led us to bankruptcy in 2010, as well as to today's chaos, that is, correcting our tourist model by increasing per capita income, but above all, the development of other sectors. In simple terms, there must be no new investment in tourism, but in the primary sector, in our manufacturing and industry, such as defence, but without the energy companies being sold out to support these sectors. Now, with regard to the draft law, the first committee mentioned this as a kind of stitching-up of various amendments, that it has no vision and no proposal for real development. We stressed that for the Greek Solution the sector is very important. Unfortunately, however, for every single euro that our farmers receive from the sale of their products, about 90 cents are driven out of the country, for example in the following, according to an earlier study. Seeds are imported almost as a whole from the Netherlands, the United States, Japan, Israel, Italy and France. Plants are imported from Lithuania, Germany, the Netherlands and Finland. Agricultural machinery and spare parts are also imported from Italy, the Netherlands and the United States. Automation and environmental control systems shall be introduced. Fertilizers are imported from Germany, Israel, Italy and the United States. Thermoquepies are imported from the Netherlands, Israel, France, Italy, while Greece has little, under fifty thousand acres, when only Almeria in Spain with half the area of the Peloponnese has 680 thousand acres. Shadow networks are also imported. Groups of pumping, plant protection products, technical equipment, professional vehicles and other means of transport, packaging materials, equipment and almost all of them are imported from other countries. Even wage labour in agricultural production is imported, since they usually employ migrants from Albania, Bulgaria, Romania, Skopje, Pakistan, India, Iran and many other countries, exporting much of their income to their home countries at the expense of our economy. Continuing, the primary sector in Greece has a huge potential for profitable investment and growth. In the present case, the closest example to Greece is Israel, which in 1960 produced absolutely nothing, while its lack of water made it unlikely to be used for crops, which were of course minimal because of its territorial structure, as well as its climate conditions. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] However, a few decades later he managed to produce in the sand with the help of modern greenhouses as well as the shadowing networks, which prevent pathogens insects, and allow only a part of solar radiation to enter. It has solved the problem of water from the sea through desalination plants, while it now produces everything, although it focuses on certain codes, having an effective network of distribution and sales throughout the world, which is missing in Greece. Of course, there is central planning on the part of the government of Israel - there must always be in the primary sector - which guarantees minimum prices per product to farmers, while allowing them to gain on their own whatever amounts exceed the minimum prices, giving them proper incentives for investment and development. In this context, Greek farmers could achieve miracles if they were modernised and were not prevented by the state. We will continue to repeat our proposals for the current crisis and in particular for this sector: Firstly, a subsidy for farmers for the purchase of seeds and other raw materials in order to maintain at least their existing production. Secondly, a subsidy for investments in greenhouses and nets that Greece absolutely needs, so that its agricultural production does not depend on the weather. Thirdly, there is another amount necessary for our farmers to take advantage of all the NRPs. Fourthly, state assistance to finding workers in harvesting, possibly by the unemployed in the tourism sector or by the other OAEDs, without losing their allowances due to seasonal work. Fifthly, the establishment of a central agency to facilitate and supply the products of farmers, which will be updated daily, as regards production volumes with specialized software. Sixth, imposing duties on similar products from third countries, such as Turkey, by persuading the European Union to allow us to do so, which would increase our GDP by about EUR 3 billion, while reducing our trade deficit, which is our very big problem. We would like to stress here that the trade deficit is not just a question of exports and competitiveness, but, above all, of imports. The reduction of imports, which is our first priority, while it does not require any intelligence or work, presupposes the purchase of Greek products by the Greeks, through which domestic investments are made, increasing our GDP and public revenues. Unfortunately, however, the Finance Ministers in Greece usually act as accountants and tax collectors, not as economists. The same applies to governments in general, which do not govern the country, but act as managers. And at this time as managers, unfortunately, of the German Government. In this respect, while they found money and ways to advertise "We Do Home" successfully, we wondered why they don't find money and don't advertise "we buy Greek products from Greek companies", which is allowed, as long as no one mentions the word "only". Does it require will or does it simply require proper understanding, efficiency and love for Greece? Seventh. Incentives to tourist enterprises to meet their needs with Greek products, thus increasing our GDP by more than EUR 10 billion, public revenues by about EUR 3 billion, as well as an even greater reduction in our commercial deficit. Eighth. Checking on the sales of copies of Greek products abroad, resulting in increased exports, lowering our trade deficit and rising GDP. We must always aim to reduce our trade deficit if we want to become a healthy country once. Ninth. Incentives to the development of fish farms on rocky islands in the Aegean Sea, through which our marine space and our EEZ would be protected, while increasing our GDP by around 4 billion euros again. Tenth. Incentives to border regions, such as Evros and our islands, for example, to reduce VAT and simplify procedures. If Greeks are not motivated in border regions, faced with dozens of problems, such as Turkish aggression and illegal immigration, why should they stay there? Common sense and political will are needed. Not smart at all. Last, an increase in domestic farmland, where currently up to 90% are fleeing abroad. Finally, we added that we should stop confronting agriculture and, more generally, our primary sector with its traditional form, since a technological revolution is taking place today, with the application of advanced farming technology, using computing methods for crop management, by monitoring via satellites and drones, with autonomous systems, etc. This essentially requires additional categories of scientists in agriculture, which our governments are prosecuting us abroad, such as mathematicians, engineers, etc. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] All this and several others in the same direction are the vision that, unfortunately, we do not see the Greek Government having, in any case, all the previous ones, so that growth in Greece is not possible, and also that we remain committed to the same economic model that has failed us and will fail us again, in the two dangerous pre-cyclical and capital-intensive pillars of our economy, in terms of entrepreneurs, tourism and shipping, which are the first to collapse again in times of crisis. It seems, therefore, that we have nothing from our painful experiences, which is considered the basic feature of the foolish peoples. We regret to say so clearly, but the Greek Solution came to the House to tell the truth, since only the truth can mobilize our highly competent citizens, the Greeks, who are constantly paying the “account” of the inadequate and without a vision of their governments. Unsatisfactory and without vision! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u23	The last special speaker, Mr Kriton Arsenis, has spoken since Mera25. We'll continue later on. He has asked the President of the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos, to speak, and then the Minister will speak. So the circle opens for the parliamentarians, for whoever wants to talk. Here you go, Mr Arseni.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first I would like to begin by speaking of what has happened in Lero, with terrible damage to agricultural crops and the rural road network. I know the mayor is looking to find Mr. Chardalia, who has not responded at all. It is necessary immediately to declare the island in an emergency. Minister, with regard to the bill, I had wronged you in my speech saying that it is a pot-bury bill, a bill opening all matters and doing nothing to anyone. I told you that thankfully he didn't do anything, because seeing what other ministers do in their bills, such as tourist or environmental, you really better not do anything on your issues. You have as a "mark" in this bill the Greeks, that you become the persecutor of Greekizations with your specific articles. In fact, we support the fight against Greekism. There is, I hope, no one in this Chamber who would support it. We wonder how it is possible to achieve this by effectively relaxing sanctions for those who bring and move, with the right to open up new businesses - if ever caught - to distort, when there is an official permit to import artificial honey into Greece, when there is no traceability procedure and there is no framework, no possibility, in practice, of the administration going ahead with administrative controls. It cannot be your goal to combat Greekism in practice and to have done nothing on these issues and, in fact, to reduce sanctions in practice. So our question is if you want to drive out the illegality or pet her. What do you want to do? To expel it or pet it, when you half reduce fines for damage to agricultural capital and animals and, indeed, when they are damaged by intentional damage to agricultural property and animals in livestock? Do you want to smuggle the illegality or mock it when you actually stop seizing fishing licences from illegal fishermen in case they pay their fines, when the law was clear to remove the licences, just as in law, so that they won't be repeated? So it's not a pottery bill, it's a bill of favors and services, except, of course, the industrial cannabis, where you clearly want to intimidate growers, but you don't have the courage to say it. Get out and say it. Please state clearly that you are against even industrial cannabis. Say it clearly. You say, however, that you are in favour, at the same time as you have made producers who take legal resources, certified resources, really risk unintended illegal people, because that is why you have written the law to be. With your bill legalists become illegal, and the illegals become legal or the missing. This is the mark of your bill, favors and services. We call on you to do a favor against these more than a hundred cooperatives found by this law you bring must pay at the worst time of the economic crisis, in the middle of a coronary, more than EUR 110 million. It would be worthwhile to find them if you hadn't brought the bill a few months ago to privatize them, through the entry of investors who can control the administrative assemblies and therefore the decisions and therefore the cooperatives. We call on you to demand a political solution, such as so many we see now being taken at European Union level, which obviously do not correspond to its needs. But we see that there is a mood for small facilities from the European Union. So why don't you ask for this small facility - because at the moment 110 million for the European Union is a small facility - to support cooperatives at the most, at the deepest point of our crisis, from shutting down or privatising them. If you do not, you will allow us to say that you do not because they are cooperatives, that if they were already privatised, you would, if they were private investors, do so. Prove we're wrong. Prove that we are wrong about this criticism. We, until you did, however, and to correct all these points, are against this bill at first instance and will be placed in detail on the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u25	Me, too. Mr. Velopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Voridis, I never thought there would be a time when you would be rapporteur at the 'bafos', even though it is for medical reasons. It is the excuse of the 'bafos' and medicine to be rapporteur. I remember 15 years ago what we were talking about all this, but sometimes power changes you. That's the way it is. Those who want to be in the prefecture of power can be "buffled" whenever they want to. Let's leave that. I'm still going to insist now. I do not understand the concern of some people that all Greece should deal with cannabis. I can't understand it. A country with six thousand aromatic plants, pharmaceutical plants, Minister, which could become the country's heavy industry, and we are dealing with 'babot', if it is for medical reasons, if it is for therapeutic reasons, for recreational reasons, live the generation of hippies and all these strange situations. You know, Minister? I'll tell you something very simple to understand. Thousands of seven hundred selfish herbs have this place, this great place. Just ten days ago, I was reading on "First Theme" - which is your own instrument, of yours, of what you have now - that our friends Albanians are getting into Grammos and getting an aromatic, pharmaceutical herb that costs a pound of 50,000 euros. How much is hemp going to cost? On the left may know better, of course. Anyway, I don't know how much the pound does. I say that a herb does 50,000 euros a kilo, and I will deal with cannabis, to make it a flag, to have Mr. Karanika do, along with his sister, or I don't know who others, companies and stories. You're the same as SYRIZA, unfortunately, Mr. Voridis! I'm afraid so. Listen. I won't say about things. You're making a record in Article 9. You're right. Why, though, are we importing honey from China? What are the reasons? What does our country need to import honey from China? You tell me. And it's not honey. Let it go. Not to mention the other one, Mr Vorides, that in five years' time now we will also have imported olive oil from China, because they have taken huge areas, you know, we have discussed it together, the Chinese have been over a long time since Crete and made their own olive trees. I mean, I mean, if the government really wants to help the primary sector, which, to me, is the spearhead of an economy, it will have to make a plan. I do not expect you to resolve the issue of the primary sector. For God's sake! It's a 50-seven-year-old problem. You're not the special, anyway, I'm not the special. I have been entrepreneurial about this and have learned five - six basic things. But I really expected there to be a real talk about this. To have real conversation, substantial conversation, not in the House, before the House. For example, a seed bank. Did we do something? Did we move on to something? Did you announce anything? Is this going on? It's important for a country to have a seed bank. A country without a seed bank cannot be justified. But to make the parties in this House aware, too, of the situation. And when I say a seed bank, I am referring above all to the ingenious herbs that our country has and not a seed bank in general. I'm talking about genius herbs. It's important what I'm saying. We have back up. No provision for setting up apiculture parks. We take the bees, we put them in the woods, we put them from here, we put them from there, the other walk goes, the bees pinch him. We need a plan, too. Advertising campaign, I don't see anywhere. No financial support from the Greek beekeepers who are having a hard time. You know, if the bee disappears - and not only is it a Greek problem, but it is a global problem - the whole plant process disappears, pollen, etc. I say this because we must finally find a way in this Parliament to speak with proposals. I'm tired of generalizing - I'm not going to say pictogram - meditating and saying each of ours and spending time. Article 12. What are the fishermen doing in your ministry? Can you tell me? Do cigarettes and fish grow? To go to shipping. I didn't know the fish were grown on earth. You're Ministry of Rural Development. See a phenomenality, you want me to say, a contradiction, you want me to say, fishing belongs to rural development. Mr. Harakopoulos, what can I say? It's a confusing story. My mind doesn't fit. It could fit yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u27	You're making a mistake!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u28	Okay, maybe I'm wrong. Yeah, you're right. I'm always wrong. But all Greeks went bankrupt. I may always make mistakes, but you went bankrupt with all the Greeks. How can I make a mistake and go bankrupt with the Greeks, I don't understand. And I'll tell you just to understand. You're talking about fish, since my colleague is flying. We haven't defined fishing zones, Mr. Harakopoulos. Since 1981 there has been no fishing zone in Greece. The European Union presses, ends in March 2021, and we did not introduce them. Am I wrong, Mr. Comrade? Oh, no. Here, there are honest people who say that I'm right at once. Not always. Greek fishermen under the hostage regime, with the damage of Turkish aircraft which - you hear - are based not on the surviving of Turkey, but on the fact that we have not established fishing zones. The Turkish fisherman, Moroccan, Egyptian, tells you that by six nautical miles you're in charge. Then they're international waters. I'm doing what I like. I go in, I fish, I do what I want. That's it. That's why I'm telling you about a fishing zone. Get out of here! You don't. You're afraid of Turkey. That's the truth. Why don't you say it? You dare not say you're afraid to do it. And it is a right - advantage of the country that will be lost in March 2021 I tell you. It's gone. So, what else do I have to tell you? I'm not telling you about AOZ. You forgot about her. You let the Turks agree with Libya. There neither in the UN nor in a coordinate letter you have not lodged. There, too, scared. You're always scared! Also import from Turkey without duties. What are the Turks doing? They fish in Greek waters, take their fish to Antalya and transport it to Greece afterward, buy the Greek fish from Turkey or import from Turkey some and sell it for Greek products. I mean, that's unforgettable. Turkey is causing Greece. Why not, since yesterday, introduce duties on Turkish products, as Turkey itself did a week ago in eight hundred products. I said it here. Eight hundred European products, among them thirty-forty Greek, are now subject by Erdogan's decision to customs duties. And Greece passes uncharacteristicly all Turkish products, many of which are competing Greek agricultural products, and we pass them tranzits. I don't understand. I won't talk about the veins. That's another big crime. Because I've also got an ecological sensitivity, the vignot enters, and it ruins the whole genus, whatever's been underneath, for decades and no one speaks. Nobody says anything. Okay, well, everyone can have their opinion, believe what they want. Article 19: The European Union imposes recovery of aid from agricultural cooperative organisations. Farmers are paying for it again. But why, Minister? I'll tell you why they're paying her. Why - not you personally - your party, PASOK and SYRIZA took the subsidies, shared them with their own people, cooperatives, etc., ate the berries, and now that we are being checked, farmers have to pay this story. This is the crime of the misguided subsidisation sharing. You've committed a crime. You left the farmer without guidance. What did the farmer do? It took 100 grand or fifty grand or twenty grand and took Cayenne, took a tractor, took a car. No one else controlled him. And it makes sense if the other guy doesn't have control, and he doesn't have direction to take whatever he likes. I'm from a village, gentlemen, from Axios Giannitson, and I'm proud to be a provincial, rural area with peaches. We saw the '80s and '90s trucks, cars, IX. They were subsidies. Instead of making the police officer - yes! - and lead the farmer to a crop that's different so that he's caring for money and producing wealth, we've led him to subsidies to take cars. Wrong logic, wrong strategy. And that mistake will now be paid by the farmers. We'll ask them back for the money. Who's gonna pay? Are you going to the farmer to get his bank account? What if they can't pay? Are you gonna seize and auction? You're writing this in the bill. You tell us. Article 26: At last, and good for you, to make a good proposal, to cover the damage and the life-threatening by immigrants. Good for you! I hope, however, that the justice of the farmer will not be forbidden to go to his stadium. Because in Lesvos, that's what happened. In Moria he was eaten by the goats and the sheep of the man, he took the shotgun and the prosecutor told him never to go back to his stadium. That is the decision of justice! Some smile, my Minister, but that's the relentless reality. To the farmer who has a stalk and who is stolen by others, he has not been compensated for, of course, that is true - he forbids going back to his stalk again! I don't understand. I'm not going home? That's what he says. And that's a good measure, right, tightening the sentences of the animal stealing, yes, I'm with you! Dear Minister, what I would like to see: the explicit safeguarding of Macedonian products. That's an explicit guarantee from the government and a fight. You're not doing anything yet. What about the negotiations, tell me? Has anyone informed you about the labels "Macedonia", "Made in Macedonia" of our Macedonian friends? You know, you tell them North Macedonia. You once said that Macedonia is only one and it is Greek. In any case, now you tell them North Macedonia. I want to understand that, too. I don't accept it. I can hear it anyway, because the New Democracy's choice is to be SYRIZA. What SYRIZA did keep going on by New Democracy. So I say: What have you done as a government a year ago with designations of origin for products? Tell me what you did? Tell me we've got this result, we've got it with him. What did you do? There goes the hammer and the wine, and everything goes. I am trying to say this in simpler terms, because I would need two or three hours to discuss this issue, which is serious. Tell me, where did your government support Greek agricultural products? Where? Not your ministry. You don't have any funds. But I'm going through this. The funds are very little anyway. Mr. Mitsotakis gave your Ministry 150 million to help the primary sector. I laugh and the herring cry together. And we gave voucher, friends and friends hundreds of millions of euros. If that is called politics, I say it differently: I come out of the fifth floor and fly five hundred euros to get my friends and acquaintances underneath. That's not reasonable. Where is the introduction of an advertising card for Greek products? Is that something like that? Where's the food bank, which should have been done already. Minister, I want you to tell me - and I want the Minister to hear me, my friend Makis Voridis if he can, I understand that his advisers are telling me some things he wants to answer - about the energy of the Agricultural University. In honor of teachers, they are preparing an entire farm reconstruction platform and calling for the assistance of the municipalities and the region. Has your department been informed? Do you know anything about that? Do you know anything personally? I have said a thousand times that if we want to move the primary sector, we should reduce VAT on Greek products. We can do it. It's our decision. If we want to reduce it. Technology, know-how, money, increase in land yields, application of duty-free oil to farmers. Mitsotakis said so, Mr. Voridis. What's gonna happen? Will you do that? You were talking about duty-free oil. Mr. Mitsotakis said so. He didn't get on the tractors in his honor. Mr. Tsipras was on his way up and on his way. Petroleum duty-free has not yet been seen by people. It's raining water on top, but it's oil they don't see. Will you do it? Early payment of aid from the European Union to farmers and farmers. The biggest problem for the last fifty years of Greek farmers - and Maximos Charakopoulos, from Thessaly - has known about it - is water. Our channels are still lame in Yannitsa. In my home country, the Yannitsa, the channels that are watering farmers are lame. We've got the becks. You know it. Forty degrees of temperature, it throws water on the beck and evaporates. You don't water. I am just telling you things to make a real plan so that we can finally lay the foundation of a proper agricultural policy. And the epic junta made the channels in the Yannitsa. The seven years he started and put the cement and left it open. It's open, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u29	It's underground.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u30	The channels are open.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u31	The other one's underground.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u32	Where we are watering in Giannitsa, worthy, Old Mylopotus, Arab, Dog, the channels are open. I don't know where you're watering. So I say: have we ever made an organised water plan? Because water beyond life's source is also a source of wealth generation in the primary sector. Did we do something serious? Never, nor SYRIZA, nor PASOK, nor did New Democracy seriously sit to see the water. I won't talk about the Acheloos dam and the Acheloos diversion. Andreas Papandreou had envisioned it, but it never happened. They were building it all day and at night it was demolished. We're going to the primary sector and self-sufficiency. For me it is very important that a country which has problems with deficits, Mr Vorides, can reduce the trade balance of payments. You increase your deficit when it comes to importing and a few exports. They're just numbers. To support. Two months ago, in February, I went and found African oranges, China rice, Turkish tomatoes, Egyptian potatoes, Chinese honey, Indian grape. Europe and Greece are fed by third countries. So we need to find a watertight and seal our own production. We'll find ways. There are ways. If you don't know, let us tell you by our team how this can be done. You're not concerned, I'm honestly saying that and it's a huge surprise to me. Do you know the story, Mr. Voridis, with the sheep wolf? If the wolf eats nine sheep, the farmer is not compensated. He's got to eat ten. To get paid, you have to go ten shells to check them out. And say it's ten, count it and get paid. And how much are you paid for? You get paid 50%, and you barely get paid. This is called compensation for the farmer. In Germany it is quite different. And one to eat you, they'll pay for it. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President of Greek Solution is ringing.]] A little more time, Mr President. I could say a lot of things, but I want to talk a little bit about the primary sector, the fishermen. Under the new agricultural law, Minister, the government refers to farms. Honestly, you have forgotten both by SYRIZA and PASOK that you have devalued the fish farms. Aquaculture and aquaculture have a terrible problem, Minister. My acquaintance in Halkidiki tells me it's a scary precipitation. The Italians and Spaniards went past us. It's a fact when a few years ago Ellas was drunk. We need to see the pathogens. Let's go check out the compensation to the fishermen. Damages from seals and dolphins, which Mr Mera25 loves, to fishing gears and catches. What compensation is there? You know? Nothing! The dolphin enters, the seals or any fish breaks the nets and people are not compensated. Why? Reduction of fish stocks from pollution or overfishing. Why don't you see that? We ask - and you can do so - for compensation from the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. They have the money. It needs coordination between services, Mr. Voridis. And do it, because you can do it. You're also a leader, I know it as Chief from the past. You have a leading figure. You can bounce them all of those who don't work on the various agencies and make a program to ask for the money. We must call for fish compensation for aggressive fish, such as rabbit-head or lion-fish. Some people are smiling! But I'm trying to specialize in problems, and some people understand it's not fish, fish. They're dangerous and aggressive for the ecosystem. Have we done anything about it? Ask some serious people who know the issues. Financing from European funds shall not be absorbed. There are European funds for this, Mr Voridis, and they are not being absorbed. Because the beneficiary has to pay all the money and then wait to get his allowance. Where have you seen this? Six months, two years, to get the subsidized amount back! I say all this because I could talk at least three hours and tell you specific things with proposals. We've filed them a dozen times. I want in this Parliament, when the Greek Solution leaves - or when it governs, I say - to stay as a party that tabled concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u33	But we can hear them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u34	I know, Mr. Levane. It's your honor, I'm making this clear. We're not owls, we're not here to make a fuss. I repeat a thousand times that my personal opinion is personal, but the party and its institutional position are serious. We're not gonna change it or fate. So I say this, because many people are asking me, to close down here, because history is too bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u35	We don't have to crush the whole thing. We're closing with this now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u36	It's a nectar if you get it all up. Let's actually go. We have Turkey, Mr. Kaklamani. I cannot understand, Mr Vorides, you are a man who has a patriotic view, like many others in the New Democracy, you are a truly patriotic party, you have a patriotic view, how you can even now tolerate Turkey's provocativeness. So if Turkey gets NAVTEX and wants to drink a cappuccino french on the Acropolis, we're going to do a very strong protest démarche again? And will Mr. Dendias come out and say 'is it forbidden by international law'? Is this what the country is leading to confrontation with Turkey, with international law, which does not exist? You haven't figured that out yet? Thucydides said there is no law, there is the law of the mighty. Understand it. We have a Mr. Treasury, who talks about international law all the time. They'll come in to pierce at six nautical miles, come drilling at six nautical miles. What are we gonna do? Shouldn't we listen to the voice of Mrs. Gennimata, Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Koutsouba, ours, should all the Chiefs sit down to discuss what our red line is? Because in our humble view, Mr Lebanese, 6 nautical miles if pierced is casus belli. According to the Greek Solution, if they pierce at 6 or 12 nautical miles it is casus belli. But I want to hear the rest of the leaders what they say. They'll go under Crete, they'll pierce. Is it casus belli or isn't it? Or will we look at them and take pictures of them from a distance and will Mr. Dendias "International Law says other things"? If you squeeze in your hand International Law, you'll end up losing what you have and your hand together. And I'm saying it so people can figure it out. For me it is casus belli that any move by Turkey against national sovereignty. And we have excellent possibilities, guys. Greece has excellent potential, too. I won't tell what he could do with S -300 in Crete, lock the targets. I will not say about the other modern systems Greece has and we must not be afraid of anyone. We are a strong, very strong country, but there is no mind to create our own war industry. Estonia cannot manufacture one million three hundred thousand inhabitants, Minister, Mr Vorides, unmanned armoured 12 people's personnel transport vehicle and Greece does not build a wheel. It can't be done! We're doing something wrong. And I'm closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u37	Close it, Mr President, to make it easier.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot understand why you are all messing with Trump.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u39	Oh, well, now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u40	I'll say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u41	You can say it, but respect the Members who are waiting to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u42	I will sit here another five minutes, Mr President. As you did to the other Presidents, you will do to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u43	No, it's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u44	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u45	No, it's not like that at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u46	Let me see you interrupt Mr. Mitsotakis and what in the world. I'm gonna jump off the tenth.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u47	You know I'm interrupting everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Mitsotakis is out of the question, so we can talk about it. All of them, Ministers, yes. Because you're expensive. But let me say something about America.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u49	Hey, say it and close it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u50	America's burning up. Antifa's on fire. You have the same point of view. Don't ruin it now. Ladies and gentlemen, violence has nothing to do with race or color. Violence is violence. Yesterday I watched the NBA star, Smith, playing basketball, and Antifa broke his car and kicked them black. The man is colored. What does it mean, that his violence is racist? Whether colored or colourless, violence is violence and is condemned wherever it comes, understand it. And because Soros supports the war against Trump, I will tell you one thing: do not be very happy with Antifa, because we also have some bouquets here, which may create a problem. A brutal murder of a police officer against a colored man cannot become an object to fire the entire country. In 2008, we were here, Mr Voridis and Mr Kaklamani. We saw what the hooded ones did, that some people are fond of every day. That's why I'm saying that any hoodier gets caught for the second time, felony and inside and confiscation of his property, to end the story. I'm hanging up here. I have in front of me and I will file them in the Practical Antifa posters that some of the fake left support. One poster talks about AOZ, against the Greek EOZ. The other poster: "Hey, the freshmen, the hell and the country." Here's Antifa, that's who you have. Some of you are hypotensive to them. "It's enough with the patriots," not to say the other one, because we have Parliament's channel too. Antifa demonstration 'We are not fighting for Cyprus, the Aegean and Macedonia'. The other: Turkey, "Participation in the Aegean". These are your Antifas who support Erdogan. That is why I say at some point the law and order must be imposed in every direction. We'll start with the illegal, illegal immigrants, from Antifa and then, Mr. Voridis, we'll beat the Greeks to Malakasa. You've made them black in the woods with tear gas, I'm sad at what I'm saying. But I did not expect the New Democracy to beat Chios, beat Samos, beat any Greeks in Malakasa, but when the illegal immigrants come out and close the railway stations and the National Road to treat them like ladies. The law and order will be applied mainly to the illegal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u51	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the majority rapporteur for the presentation of the bill, but also to thank the rapporteurs for their criticism. I always watch them very carefully. Let's finish with a few points of order. I'm making legislative improvements. They're indeed sceptical and they don't have anything special.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u53	I would ask that they be photographed and distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u54	On the other point, Mr President, there are two proposed amendments. We have tabled two amendments, which I have spoken about in committee. They're also in advance. These amendments, if they are ours, are also of interest to the Ministry of Rural Development. One is for which I have already spoken to you, on the issue of the unemployed who can work on agricultural work without interrupting the benefit. This is the one. The second concerns the question of cooperatives and the extension we are giving. And there is also an improvement concerning the National Association of Agricultural Cooperatives for which I have spoken to you in committee. There are two amendments tabled by Mr Kegeroglu. Without being on the substance of the amendments, because they are of interest, one of them has a financial cost, and I cannot accept it because it does not have a report from the General Accounting Office and the other has a number of legal issues. It raises a real issue, but it needs further processing, particularly in order to address the issues of judicial disputes that may arise. So I cannot accept them at this stage, but I keep them to assess them. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the bill. You will allow me to say that I felt, so I understood it, so I interpret it, a discomfort on the part of the opposition in criticism. And I would like to say this: it is not bad for opposition when a bill has positive provisions to recognise that it has positive provisions and agrees. It's simple and easy to do. For SYRIZA to say "yes" to the provisions on Greekizations has been scouted and canceled so much that this "yes" will be heard as "no". If you're going to say yes, say it's over, we're happy and we're all going together. What kindness and anxiety is it to find out something bad about something that is objectively good? And allow me, because, in my opinion, the question of Hellenism is one of the most important issues that we have dealt with. And, because I hear an easy and of course unworthy criticism, it says the government has no strategy, I'm sorry, but I've explained to you the strategy of the government. I've explained it to you dozens of times. You can start saying that you do not like this strategy for the primary sector, but you cannot say that there is no strategy. A hub of the election programme of the New Democracy and its commitment to the Greek people was to deal with the Hellenisms. We had said so in an election, it has been developed as a central programming point and we are coming today to begin - and I stress it - the implementation of this particular strategic part within our overall rural development plan. I have explained and talked many times about how all our tactics will be unfolded in this. I said and had specified in time that in the first half of 2020 we are going to legislate and burden the ratification framework for Greekisations. That is what we are doing today because it was fully specified in time. I have said that in the second half of 2020 we are going to talk about reorganising the control mechanisms, so we will enhance the effectiveness of controls in this part. I have also said that in the second half we will open up a debate on technology, on the scientific approach, on the methods used to deal with Greekisations. These are defined and time-limits, defined as actions. Today we are implementing the first part, the first part, which is the ratification mechanism. Why does this debate matter? Because no one can think we're doing it in the void. The first thing I want to say, which has really impressed me, is that in the thirteen years that I have been in this Chamber - unfortunately, they have passed, they are some more, that is, I cannot say that I am a young man, I liked to say this before, but now it has been thirteen years - I hear from all the wings in high tones about how important the issue of dealing with Greekism is. All these years I have heard frustrations, I hear anguish, I hear sensations, I hear complaints, and I say that it can't be very important and it really is important. Why? Why do Hellenism - and I am now using it in the general sense - is mimicism actually doing what? He pretends he who manufactures, the Greek composer that a product has properties that he does not have, is Greek while it is not, is made of Greek products while it is not made, it is feta and it is not feta because it does not comply with the PDO terms and so what does he do? It does three bad things: firstly, it misleads the consumer, it tells him that he eats something that is not really what he eats, secondly, it unwisely competes with those who make the same product, but they usually make it with more expensive methods and with more expensive products, so it gives him something cheaper at a more expensive price, and thirdly, it undermines and affects the most basic of all, the income of producers, because, as it undermines the commercial chain in reality, it cannot create the demand required for domestic products to get and the price required. It therefore undermines the income of producers. I'm telling you, Hellenism does three bad things. It is at the heart of the policy of the Green Agreement in the European Union, of the strategy from the field to the plate, the farm to fork strategy, that is to say, food fraud is at the heart of this debate. You will tell me that it is good, we understand their importance, it is indeed worthwhile, the productive world puts it, the serious processors and the food industry put it in place. A question arises: What is the problem? Where's the big deal? Why hasn't it happened these years? I've also looked at what's happened these years. So let me tell you what has happened to this, the reluctant request over the years. The penalties provided for in Law 2235/2014 were, by the way, heavier than previously existing. Law 2235/2014 is a law that had already set from 2014 on fraudulent administrative fines from EUR 500 to EUR 30 000, for misleading labelling, which is part of the Greekisation, from EUR 500 to EUR 30 000, and for fraudulent PDOs only, because protection in Law 2235/2014 exists for PDOs only for wines, not for all the rest. With what penalty? From 1,000 euros to 15,000 euros. That's the sanctions. Did we have criminal provisions on PDOs? Zero, none, there was a criminal provision for the PDOs. We had a criminal order on illegal labelling? No, we did not have a criminal provision on illegal labelling and therefore no criminal protection clause for our products. What did we have? A criminal provision on fraud, which said 'three months to five years'. In order to reach agreement, because Mr Kokkalis, my approved colleague, may not have given sufficient attention to the Market Law in which I happened to nurse the first ten years of my legal career. Any involvement is illegitimate? No, only the hand mixing is fraudulent. Fraud must lead to worsening. Has Mr. Kolkalis wondered: Does any fraud lead to harmful foods for health? Reply: No, I can mix seed oil with olive oil, the seed oil is of the worst quality, the olive oil is of the highest quality, I do fraudulent but does not mean that it is harmful to health. So other offences are these, but those, the others. We need a dogmatic structure which has not existed until now. Let me not take you to what's legal, no one's dealt with, no context was fixed, no one bothered. Can I ask this easy, simple, fast and clear question? Is the feta PDO? It is. Do we want to protect her? We do. We have all received complaints of violation of PDO either because Greek milk is not used, why are appropriate methods not being used, or why methods that are normally banned, such as filtration and therefore misleading products, with the wrong raw material? Have we accepted these? Yeah. Has it been pointed out? Yeah. The following question therefore arises: Why has a criminal provision not been adopted over the years? Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time today Parliament is effectively protecting our PDO products! All these years, many words and zero deeds! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr. Red, that's the truth, you haven't legislated anything!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u55	...doing any checks?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u56	Mrs Tyloridou, you have only expressed anxieties - I will say sincere - but the pancake had no honey. That's the reality! So what do we do now? What we are doing now is getting the fine from EUR 500 to EUR 30 000 and going from EUR 15 000 to EUR 80,000. This is for the administrative fine. We are taking the fine, which was for misleading labelling, and we are going from EUR 500 to EUR 30 000 and from EUR 30 000 to EUR 30 000 to EUR 30 000 to businesses with a turnover of more than EUR 10,000 000, we are going to EUR 600,000. These are for administrative fines. We are making an independent criminal offence - this will be passed today by the House - so that when one violates any PDO product we accept from two to five years in prison. This is an effective, anti-crime policy in the field of food fraud. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And they come and tell me we didn't do anything. We didn't do anything? You who were to do any of this, why didn't you do something? We have done nothing, so you who have none of this, have done more than we have to make this criticism for us? And publicize the evidence. And the possibility of permanent withdrawal of the licence. So, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I hear the objection, because I would expect universal support from a bad private sector to be the one who is wrong, and I would expect support from all the wings without reservations. Watch out. So across from that, what do I hear? I hear the following misery: It is, it says, compulsory to do so by Regulation 625. Mr. Red, 625 is talking about organising the checks. Nothing tells us about sanctions. Nothing tells us about the criminal scene. In implementation of 625 and obligations stemming from him, there is an article in a specific bill. It is what defines food control bodies. It's, if I remember correctly, 23. The 23 is actually in execution of 625. All the rest, I'll be sad, nothing to do with it. And proof of that is that this legislation is innovative. This is legislation that Greece introduces as legislation - standard for the whole of the European Union. So today the House is taking a big step in this direction. Are we stopping? Are we done with this? Step one. There is a reorganization of the mechanisms. With regard to reorganization, I will be sorry again. Why is that absolutely necessary? Why, do you know what we've received? Let me tell you what we've received. An infringement, even with those sanctions, is found in 2018. I mean, there's an audit body coming in and says: "I caught you breaking the PDO. I caught you with misleading note. I have to put the fine on you." You know what's going on? They're transferring from the audit body to the Ministry to impose the fine. It's not imposed by the body. He's coming to the Ministry. In order to impose a fine in 2018, when does the Ministry impose it? You know? In 2020, two years later, to tell the alleged infringement of the fine. And since 2020 they have been entitled to appeal. Do you know which appeals were tried and finalized now? 2016! A little bit of your arithmetic: 2018 found infringement, 2020 fine, appeal, four years to judge the appeal, 2024 to finalise the fine of five hundred euros and initiate the administrative appeal procedure in court! [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of Parliament, Athanasios BOURAS]] And they tell me they had a system to deal with the Greekizations. And instead of coming here to meditate, humbly, repentant, confessing to your mistakes and miscarriages, you come and tell us we're not doing anything. I am not surprised by the nerve in this regard, but that is the reality. Is the bill doing anything else? Because we've said a lot. We're opening vedals. Will I have your tolerance, Mr President, for a while?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u57	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It seems to me that, because it does not help - and I say again - the bill on criticism, we are opening up the general 'trags'. What everyone remembers comes and puts: from the seed bank, ELGA and ELGA somewhere else and then, somewhere further. All the issues and all the vedals that one might have in mind come and puts them. Why? Because it doesn't help the bill for criticism. Because, of course, this bill in these thirty articles - thick bill - solves a number of issues. It becomes the National Beekeeping Registry, particularly important for our beekeepers and the possibility of supporting them. And because I have heard that we do not support them, to know that there is currently a programme of 19.4 million, which has a series of actions, which obviously also promote apiculture. Our egg producers finally see the egg balance becoming a reality, without paying even half of the euros for this particular service, and - I must say - this is contrary to other sectors that pay fees for the provision of this service. There is no charge for our producers for the creation of the balance that leads to effective control of a number of issues. The huge issue that plenary has not dealt with enough is also exemplary legislation: for the first time, we are converting unemployment benefit into a work allowance for agricultural work for those working in the field! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] For the first time, we will not stop providing this allowance for the unemployed who wish to work on agricultural jobs and will be approved by Parliament today, together with a number of interventions for those who say that we do not have a strategy to address the issue of employment of third-country nationals. And let me say one more thing about which has become a very spice and has done a nice pre-publishment, which always pre-empts us, knows what we are going to do beforehand. It says this post: What to do is to make it easier for third-country nationals to come to work on agricultural work, as they are to be insured in the ECA and, therefore, it is very expensive and therefore it is not done. The next day, with an act of legislation, it has been adopted that these workers will be insured with a bachelor's and will not be insured in the ECA, satisfying another productive demand from our farmers. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And, of course, third intervention: we have given pensioners the opportunity to be in their country of origin and not to be in danger of being illegally employed and still to pay the 10 500. And our pensioners will be in their fields and we are thus strengthening the whole system of work through a series of important interventions. What has not been resolved over all these years and has all been sold within the coronary is a lack of strategy for the industry? And to carry on with the decay offences. Deterioration offences were foreseen in a felony violation. They were abolished with the new Criminal Code. Their abolition left a void, which created significant rewards among different productive classes depending on what each one has done. And we come back, we make redundant infringements, and we will then consider whether there should be any - because I hear this as criticism - and an administrative fine. Management grazing plans. How many years has that good, Mr. Red, with the grazing management plans? So to have a question. These are provisions that were adopted in 2014. Prolongation in 2017. Extension in 2019. Answer zero! And now we are going to resolve one of the amendments which were in place to proceed with the grazing management plans, and that is clear now. If a region wants to do it, it will go ahead and do it. If a region doesn't want to do it, the Ministry of Rural Development will. And it's over! Pigmeat management plans will be carried out for the benefit of our farmers, because it is a basic measure and a basic project that we need to do. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And then we come to the huge issue of the management and collection of dead animals. How long has this been, and what has happened all this time? How long has this loose end been, which embarrasses the country? He's embarrassing the country! Do not have a system by which to manage, collect the dead animals and leave them in the camps and ravines without any management system. We are coming, we are legislating, and we will also act at a speedy pace. The spongiform encephalopathy, which was about Tyrnavo and was something that had to be done and when did it happen to have a good question? Because I was criticized for that too! You're not making any sense here. I mean, five years they've been exposed, they're not, they're coming and they're wearing it, we're coming, we're gonna figure it out, and we're gonna hear it from upstairs! So it was a number of issues that were of interest. I should also go to the point where criticism has been made. Two points are that have focused criticism on the substance: recovery and cannabis. These two. Let's finish the cannabis. Because there is a lot to be said, cannabis cultivation is a political choice for the present government. If it were something different you'd hear, we'd have abolished it. We have not abolished it, so it is our political choice. Leave it now how it feels and how it feels, because it doesn't matter. What matters is how or what position the government takes in this matter as a whole. This issue, with this bill, solves a multiplicational matter in favour of cannabis cultivation. I say that because we have focused on the other provision. There are two provisions here. One is that it facilitates the issue of propagating material, because it makes sense, and the other is that which raises the subject of the limit. I'm making it clear what's changing the arrangement so we don't get confused. Allowed is 0,2, as it was. Illegal is 0.6 and up, as it was. There was an intermediate area of 0.2 to 0.6, which our employees had to take a decision if the excess, in principle banned by SYRIZA legislation - I stress - was justified for reasons of climate change. Ask who and wherever you want. Can there be such documentation? The answer is 'no, there can be no such documentation'. Two choices you have here, if you are honest, serious and honest: Or take it to 0.6 in any case - and finish these stories of crop and arrowmaking - and if that's what SYRIZA's position is today, I should like to hear why Mr. Kokkalis didn't do it on his government? Or you say 'No, I'm at 0,2' and that's the position that the government takes today. Very simple and clear, no other debate is opening, that is our intervention. The question of recovery - so that we can reach agreement, because I still think we do not understand - these are cases in 1992 and 1994. What's going on there? They were granted by the Greek State aid to cooperatives. These aids were considered by the European Commission to be in breach of competition law. Why was he judged like this? Because the European Commission's basic view is that there should not be any aid, because in fact one country in this way can grant its own producers, so it is unwisely competing with others, not nationally, producers, and that is an infringement of the principles of the single market. That is what the aid regulation is thinking. Are there any instances of bending? Yes, sir. We are currently living because of a coronary, a period such as this. These were hundreds of millions of euros. Following negotiations, which I must say were initiated by various governments - but the previous government also negotiated on this - they were restricted. We continued the negotiations, and these were limited. And there is a matter of their return now. Here, because you're asking me, do the cooperatives want to pay back these amounts? To ask a simple question: Do you know anyone, anyone, want to pay anything back? No one ever wants to. So what are you asking me now? To ask me the right question: do you want to pay over hundreds of millions of dollars, in the form of fines, if we do not proceed with recovery? That's what you ask me. Not the last one. Do you want to pay, Mr. Bukowo, 90 million? He doesn't want to. Good, Bukkoro doesn't want to. I'll pay 500 because Bucket doesn't want to? Is that the question, the taxpayer, to give 500? No 90, why don't we go to that amount then, we're going to the original amount. So I ask, what of both? But we also have a regulation, which is also unique. Twenty years. My question here is: Who has any objection? Does SYRIZA object to that? Because SYRIZA was preparing this. The layout is ready from the time of SYRIZA. I found her, and I brought her in, and now you're not going to vote for her? Why, what's wrong with you? It's your order, it's your amounts, it's your adjustment with the extra 20 years. What do you want? The other way? Is everything to be recovered immediately? So I do not understand this approach. I would like, therefore, to conclude - and I shall end, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance and my colleagues - that this is our second bill after agricultural cooperatives, the next bill which will come up for consultation within the days on simplifying the licensing procedures, a series of authorisations that exist in the field of the primary sector. The draft incorporation of the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive is being prepared, and there we will talk about many issues that you have raised, which belong to No.4349/2017. I'm not opening this conversation, just a simple question, so very fast: Well, how did you do it? Did it go well? Were the producers happy by n.4349? No, I'm saying. He's the one with the sixty days, who had to enter and register all their sales, all the producers, for each invoice, enter a platform and state everything, to check it out. That's what they did. The rural economy is almost paralyzed by this. That's why they took it back. So be careful, because things are being called right now, which we can talk about and go further. It's not as follows, stay in what we're talking about if you open up conversations. We will deal with this. Because there is a question of unfair agricultural practices. So the incorporation of the directive into our next legislation, which will also cover this issue, comes our fourth bill in our programming, which is the reform of the legislation on the use of agricultural land, agricultural property, which is probably part of the Ministry and the public. And there are still a number of initiatives coming in. I have said on several occasions that there will be a total intervention. Already our committee has delivered a finding, not like the other, nice study. It's a nice quid pro quo we've been waiting for for for the four years. The committee has given a first conclusion, a first approach. It is with great pleasure (is the President of the Commission, Mr Vlachos, between us) to discuss the ELGA in a first approach to the issues. Whenever you are judging, Mr President, I am at the disposal of the committee for this great debate, but something to reach agreement on the wing here: and populism is close to legs. It's nice to say "I want to put other damages to the ELGA", when ELGA has left him with a deficit and problematic and every year to reduce his stocks. It's easy to share new damage to farmers, who four and a half years didn't put them in, but you didn't deal with their budgets either. That's easy talk. So here, in an organized way, we are taking a step forward in the reconstruction of the primary sector, and voting in favour of this bill is a first important and great step in dealing with the Hellenisations for which Parliament and Parliamentary groups support the bill must be proud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u59	Until the Step is taken to get the floor, Mr Karathanasopoulos, to say, because there are a number of fellow Members here that the Bureau is making a proposal after Mr Karathanasopoulos to speak four fellow Members. I announce their names: George Vlachos, Evangelos Apostolos, Maximos Charakopoulos, Evangelia Liikolis. Since some speakers are always here last and reasonably complaining - it is a Member of Parliament, and Members should also have the power that the Constitution gives them - even though I am obliged, of course, to ask for the floor from a parliamentary representative from the Rules of Procedure to give it to him, my proposal is that between two parliamentary representatives, four fellow Members should have a balance. I think by looking at the faces that you're accepting it. If a parliamentary representative wants to speak, I cannot remove it. As far as I see it, you are quite right to accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u60	We accept it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u61	Parliamentary representative of the JRC, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. The main question, Mr Minister, is what breaks the incomes of farmers. The government said that this bill protects farmers' rights because it strikes, it says, a very important side: the Greeks. Of course it is a question of Greekism. No one rejects it. But is this the decisive that breaks farmers' incomes? That is the big question, if it is the main problem faced by farmers. It is very simplistic that the shape you mentioned in your speech that demand determines the price. This year, for example, we had no Greekizations and no exports. Where's the livestock farmers' income? Down to the bottom. Why? The demand on the part of the Greeks has fallen and the nutritional needs to be met. Oh, no. They were threatened by the big traders to give them free, or else they'd stayed. There is this specificity of agricultural products. They can't be saved. And not only that, but at the same time, with income, must meet the needs for the next production. When are they going to get these? Here's a big deal. Secondly, you are, of course, making some modernisations in the bill. No one disputes that. But does this change the essence and reality of the farms in our country? We say no. It does not change it, even though it does some modernizations and perhaps improvements at some points. So what is the main problem? What is it that literally breaks the farmer's income? We say this very clearly: it is competition and capitalist gain, Minister. The farmer is between two millstones. What are those two millstones that crush him? One is the multinationals who produce agricultural supplies, fertilisers, seeds, medicines and raise production costs because they want to sell too expensive to make profits. The second one is the other business groups that take their production, who want to get it cheap to make profits. This is the main problem facing farmers, farmers and fishermen. It's not anyone else. As long as the interests of multinationals and monopolies dominate, the farmer cannot shield his income on the substance. One of the prisoners. This is the main factor. What else is there that affects the farmer's income? These are the natural disasters that can break and destroy its production. What are you guys doing? Are you compensated for all the damage suffered? Oh, no. Neither you nor the previous governments. Why? Firstly, because you have an ELGA with specific norms on when it can be compensated and up to what percentage its production must be destroyed, otherwise it is not compensated and, secondly, it is an ELGA deficit not because farmers do not contribute, but because the state has not made state revenues for a decade, it has not given the ELGA its share. That's why ELGA's revenue is falling apart. There is no state funding. And we are not talking about the PSEAs, which is another priest gospel and which are even more bureaucratic, must be approved by the European Union in order to be able to compensate for some of the disasters in infrastructure. Another factor is very precise energy. And that is the responsibility of the state. In the scripts and folds, for example, which are in the mountains, if the farmers do not put the PPC networks on their own, they will not be powered. Does this cost increase them? Sure. Is production difficult? Sure. How does the state contribute to being able to go everywhere, to every mandarin, electricity? No way. PPC, RAE, IPTO and all others are companies that look at their profitability. So either the farmer or the farmer pays to get the power to him or he doesn't. Other element: oil. Shipowners don't pay tax, farmers pay. Also, another issue is irrigation. Irrigation networks collapse with major problems. In western Greece, for example, with a large number of water resources, however, the networks collapse and not only at risk of farmers being able to grow, but also by causing flooding phenomena, such as the Tower, for example, and the issues they face. Other issues that exacerbate the situation are directly related to government policy. I bring one example: the taxation of farmers or the insurance of farmers - these hurt stories! - or other matters of minor importance, but which play a decisive role, who you support. The bulk of tsipuro and the bulk of tsipoudia. They can't, he says, be called tick and tick or be sold like that. The government says so, based on SYRIZA's order. So they must be bottled. What about the bulk? The little ampoule, who produces and wants to give it to a catering shop? It should be called a ‘distillation product’, it says, and not a ‘chipouro’. Or he'll have a fine of 1,000 euros. Here you are driving the situation: you are destroying the small ones for the benefit of the large drinking industry, which in essence does not produce cigarettes. Traditional tsipouro is produced by the bulbs. A lifetime, that's what we call a rye. To be clean too. And yet you, based on the regulation made by SYRIZA, impose a fine of EUR 1 000 if this procedure is not followed. Other elements are imports. It's not just the Greekizations, it's the imports. Here is a problem with the income of producers. That's a huge problem right now. However, imports and illegal Greekizations are taking place. The Egyptian potato called Greek potato. You know that very well. Other problem: Why can't you raise a problem? Because we're on the free market, he says, and we can't put duties on it. So the Greek production is destroyed to provide through the multinationals, who exploit the large areas in Egypt and elsewhere. Fourthly, a problem that is important, is the European Union's common agricultural policy. What do all these factors do so I don't get far? They are violently dispersing poor medium-sized farms from its clergy, in order to concentrate agricultural land and agricultural production on less and less hands, capitalist businesses and the countryside on the substance. Because the little lot isn't productive. So you guys do it with the violent displacement. We in socialism say that it will be done by the socialization of the land and not by the violent displacement. So here's the double standards. Thus, the earth’s concentration in a few hands and at the same time a change in land use. Did your government, following the example of SYRIZA, not allow high-quality land to plant bulbs? Do you do it or don't you? You're doing it. Why are you planting bulbs? Did the pain catch you supporting the farmer's income? But, first and foremost, agricultural production must be supported, which it can produce. However, you give them the right to put shiny glasses and then to be able to then - because this is what is happening - in the area of renewable energy sources to take them for a piece of bread, because they cannot be supported by the shining glass which the farmer puts at the expense of agricultural production. Itolo-Carnania - because it is Mr Lebanese in the front - is a clear example. They pulled out the smoke to plant bulbs. And when they couldn't connect, because they were far away from the networks, they quit because they had a connection cost where the lamps were put with the PPC network. Did this happen, Mr. Levane? It happened. You fooled the farmers and the previous governments? Of course, he made fun of them on the substance, because they were told to put a bulb on it, and then the bill came to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u63	It's not exactly like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u64	That's exactly how it is and you can answer exactly how it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u65	They took the money.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u66	From this point of view, even Greekization, there are positive provisions in place. There is a big question about penalties and offences and all of this. Who will be checked, Minister? That is the main question. Because there's good reason for the penalties, but who's gonna do it? Or will you privatize control, as you do for organic products and, for example, you're looking to find? In other words, there is a danger that these provisions will remain a gift of free will. The second point, the main question we raise as a JRC: Agricultural production for whom is it being done? Is it to satisfy the people's nutritional needs, or is it for other purposes? It is not possible to meet the nutritional needs. Don't move my head. It is not to satisfy the nutritional needs. Because if they are to meet the food needs, then there would not be too many countries in these decades with reform of production. What went through and what went through to cultivate, because it had a good price, and at the end, after three years, lost that price, we know that very well. Or it would not be a case of confrontation - let me say this - on the substance of the case or an important issue in the case of cannabis. SYRIZA is particularly leading. Cannabis and its production is the engine, in other words, of agricultural production. Really? Is it not the interests that specific business groups have to grow this in order to make profits? So your steam engine is what is of interest to entrepreneurs and not what is of interest to meet the nutritional needs. And we say that because they are confirmed by a series of things. So, then, the orientation you and SYRIZA and the Change Movement are exactly how production activity in the agricultural sector will be structured in such a way that the needs and priorities of business groups, which exploit this agricultural production, either process it or use it as a raw material and on the basis of these priorities, are met. Don't you know about the wheat, soft and tough? You know that very well. Why is this situation in Greece? Because some have forced industries not to produce a type of wheat, because it has not contributed them, it has imported it, and not the nutritional adequacy that our country must have on such issues. So I conclude, Mr President, and I will need one, two minutes of my denology. Agricultural production for what purpose, Minister? That is the main issue. Do you have a strategy on agricultural production? Of course you do. And SYRIZA has strategy and the Change Movement. You have a strategy, you have exactly the same strategy. What do you got? To satisfy the needs of the monopolies business groups, to implement the anti-agricultural policy of the European Union, and on this basis promote your government policies and choices, all that creates huge problems for farmers, throw them violently from the production process, break their incomes. So this is your common strategy. What do we say? We say that the farmer is not going to improve his position if he does not collide with the main opponent. Who's the main opponent? The interest of the monopoly groups. With this it must also conflict with the European Union's policy, so that it can ensure that some of its needs are met and that it can stay and cultivate its fields. If he does not conflict with these interests, he will not continue to grow. This brings him to the same position as the worker, to the professional and the self-employed, because they too are being beaten by the activities of monopolies, with hunger wages, with overturns in labour relations. The self-employed, who singled out sectors of the economy and flew violently into the market in the name of opening the so-called closed professions, for example, who breaks him? They therefore have a common opposition and therefore a common interest to act and fight these interests, the monopolies and the European Union and the governments that support them. Because we say it clearly. It would be quite different if there were - and our rapporteur said so - the socialist design, the socialisation of the means of production and what you produce, to cover first my own needs and then what I have to do for export and on the basis of what conditions I am equiping the farmer to produce. Everyone's alone. That's why there's the Greek paradox. Huge waste on means of production in the rural economy. Why? Because the clergy are small, they are forced to take the tractors and the irrigation and a number of other machines, they can't pay them back and bring them up huge costs. But this will be free of charge from the state, so that it can cultivate the land, have income, meet the needs, which you cannot do in capitalism, which is at present a system that highlights its boot, Minister. And I will put two sides to it: first of all, the events that are taking place in the United States, which shows that the metropolitan city of capitalism is being plagued by racism, poverty and impoverishment. Thirty-seven million unemployed in nine weeks in the metropolitan city of capitalism, and you say why these incidents take place, police brutality? And at the same time, the Trump government has to give about two trillions to the multinational Americans. The European Union has the opportunity to give EUR 750 billion to the European multinationals, the recovery fund. However, in order to protect the farmer, there we measure the barracks, what are left over, but for the multinationals there are the 750 million, which will be given under terms and conditions. The terms and conditions are very specific: Promoting reforms, reversals, we say both in labour and market liberalisation and in partnership even in social services in health - public and private - and at the same time supervising, if the budget guidelines are to be implemented as a whole. So, we have a reactionary turn. From this point of view, Mr Minister, and not far away, it seems to be our main opposition. We are not petty, but we are conflicting on the basis of the strategy, which will be able to relieve the farmer or not. This is our basic controversy and controversy with the New Democracy and we have this political logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, too. I would ask that we have the sanitary preparation of the Step and call on my colleague to do so, because we have been in the same region for many years, Mr Vlavo. Mr. Vlavo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has brought in a bill that solves small or even large problems and makes a favourable overall settlement of issues relating to Greek agriculture, livestock and fisheries. I must say with what has been said earlier than the Step forward that fishing is an agricultural activity, regardless of whether it is done in water. I must also say to those who have questions that there are plants growing up and their root system is only in water. This is called 'watering'. There are also plants growing up and their root system is only in the air. This is called an air force. So when we go out and say something - and, indeed, scientific - at least earlier, let us revert a little something and say it correctly. So this reality, presented by the bill, has been recorded by almost all the representatives of operators who came to the Standing Committee on Production and Trade. Nevertheless, the opposition - and above all the Critical Opposition - has tried to devalue the government's initiative. He thus claimed that he does not give solutions to the many problems faced by the rural world, that he does not face the anguish of the rural world about planning and policy for the industry, and that - I continue - he does not respond to living reality. By making this kind of opposition, you are basically admitting, ladies and gentlemen, in particular, the Officerial Representation, that those who ruled yesterday or even the day before - I say it for other parties - were unable to solve the problems of the agricultural world and inherited them unresolvedly in the current government. That's the admission. So, instead of bringing the tone down, and with prudence, you are serious about saying your views, since, as you admit, from the result you have now proved to be inappropriate to the agricultural world, you are criticizing all the matter and personal attacks on the Minister, thinking that you will hide your own responsibilities. So since you have not been able, ladies and gentlemen, to provide solutions when you were a government, at least find the way, the political bravery if I may, to support the essential government initiatives today. At the time you're making this criticism, you're telling us that many arrangements were from the previous political leadership, that is, they were from the SYRIZA. Also, continue by saying that several arrangements are positive. Well, there's nothing left, ladies and gentlemen. Some were from the previous leadership, some are positive. There's nothing left. Unless you think you can make politics and, indeed, opposition with something else. You have a dissatisfaction with the title. You say: 'You put a heavy headline'. But that's what you're going to do with it, with the title of the bill? You are also saying that there is no general policy on the agricultural sector or that there is no education. Is that what you're going to make a specific opposition? Look, the bill undoubtedly gives solutions to many issues. None of us, neither the Minister nor the political leadership nor our rapporteur, claimed that he was coming to deal with all the problems that the rural world probably faces. Specific problems are touching, but the ones touching them. I'm saying this to be explained. We must make criticisms and tell us where something is wrong, where you want to add something, where you want something to clarify. That's what we're talking about. Instead, your rapporteur continued by saying that we have scattered provisions which solve bureaucratic problems. It's bureaucratic, I'm not saying. I mention, for example, the management of pastures, with which you agree, the National Apiculture Register for which no one can say 'no' or veterinary medicinal products, for which you claim to be provided for by a ministerial decision of 2018, so it is written and you do not disagree. As far as the dead are concerned, you agree, but you ask that the regions tell us whether they have the resources. Also, to extend the authorisation of livestock establishments, you say that it may not be necessary because they were given a year and a half and, if they wanted, they could have taken care of them. You're not arguing again. You said about the cannabis culture. There is therefore the '0.2%' in tetrahydrocannabinol, up to '0.6%'. Apparently, it's two different things. It's three times the content, to be precise. Here, then, I said, Minister, that there could be a precise circular from the Benaeus Plant Health Institute, which says that, because of climate change, this '0.2%' can be done in the above terms and be right and not the grower's fault. However, as far as leaving it empty in a 3-fold amount, you realize that you cannot take a position. Mr. Voridis told you earlier. You need to make it clear what you want. Why didn't you bring '0.6%'? Why do you leave “flash” the “0.2%” and put each grower into adventure? You did it because you don't want to clarify the scenery. Nor can you say to us 'But you do not want this crop.' Nobody said that. It was said yesterday in committee, it was said today. It is a crop that is welcome and I hope it is efficient for the rural world and has good results! That's the point. The amendment for land workers also came. You say 'yes'. Article 1 for the Agricultural Accounting Network has come. It's, it says, the oldest layout and it's in the right direction. I really don't really understand where there is disagreement. You may, of course, have said to the committee 'We reserve the right to vote in plenary', but the plenary will be over. You need to get in position. You must say 'yes', 'no', something specific. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] So, where do you disagree? I would say 'Unfortunately for you, nowhere', because in fact this bill, as described by some as 'eranitary', solves partial, unregulated issues for the National Beekeeping Register, contains regulations on fisheries and the development of aquaculture, veterinary medicinal products, management of dead animals, rules on quality projects, regulations on poultry facilities, arrangements on simplifying the administrative procedure for the assessment of new types of fertilisers, ELGA, GEOTE, the revocations we have heard a short time ago. I left the Greeks last, to say two words. In the case of the ‘ARTEMIS’ project, which in any case provides for effective control of balances and the production and marketing of eggs, I have not heard any substantial criticism. I guess you should agree. For the Greeks, I do not understand exactly where your arguments are. This is where the strictest measures are being taken. In other words, they have prosecuted the Greeks. Do you disagree with that? That's what you need to take a seat and tell us. I, if I wanted to say anything to the Minister, would I say to him, "Minister, did you put the cubit up?" That's my agony. What is our responsibility, too, from now on to implement this decision? Obviously there are imports, but selling any agricultural product legally entering Greece as Greek is at the expense of the Greek producer and the Greek consumer and we should protect them. My office at the Ministry of Trade established traceability. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, traceability must exist everywhere, both in packed and in bulk. You need to know who started that particular product and whatever happens to be able to get back to the producer. You know, traceability also loads one responsibility to each other. It bears a responsibility for the seed it says it is, for the quality, for the variety it has used. So he understands that he is escorted until he is sold, and that is a great responsibility. Here, then, we should all say a great 'yes' to the additional shield of the deterrence of imported Greekizations. Minister, I will close with a phrase: you know very well that this year was a bad year in wine trafficking. In both Mesogeia and Attica and throughout Greece, wine has been left unsold. You must take some initiative, of course, with the wine makers - I will not say how it will be done - so that we can move on to distillation, because this year's production is near, it comes, and we must unravel off stocks - and we need alcohol anyway - and we need it to be distilled, of course, by observing European directives and European restrictions, but by putting our own political will to unblock the stocks that exist in Greek farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u69	Thank you. Mr Minister, before I give the floor to the next speaker, I should also like to say to the latter. Mr Vlachos, although he was there before, forgot to say that we also have wines in the warehouses in Megara. Therefore, you must proceed to distillation. It's something that he needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, I said Mesogeia, all of Attica and all of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u71	East Attica is too big. The western one, we, little one. Call the Stepma, the MP of SYRIZA, Evangelos Apostle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, the interest of SYRIZA in winemakers at this time is expressed in particular by the meeting which the President has with the small winemakers in your constituency. With your position you remembered yourself. Law and order even for feta. You know how much damage you do to a PDO product that is considered the flag of Greece, when you constantly put - and with such tons - issues related to the product. You realize that they may lead the market to seek laboratory analyses for such a product. I'll talk about the rest tomorrow. I would like to focus in particular on Article 19, which deals with the impor tantifications. Minister, we inherited from your own ministers over 1 billion fines for mismanagement of payments and close to 1 billion in charging for the recovery of money from farmers. He's not in doubt. For the fines, the SYRIZA Government has already achieved first repayments of 450 million in the state budget. We didn't hide them under the carpet. That is why, Minister, we are not going to vote on the provision of Article 19 on the issue of recovery, although it incorporates many, as you have already said, a product of our own negotiation. We will not vote, not because we do not want to have a happy ending on the subject of recovery, but because we do not want to strengthen, by your vote, a ignorance of your danger, an ignorance which can lead the country to new adventures and new contributions. The expressions in your speech to the committee that "SYRIZA is kicking the can to go to the next hot potato of recoveries", you realize that it is in complete contrast with your previous admission that you are walking on our own efforts in negotiating.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u73	You didn't bring it to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u74	Don't rush, I'll explain. We disagree with Article 8, because you did not complete the negotiations that we started, because you did not get the written approval of the committee necessary to carry out this arrangement. We know the danger if we don't get the money back. That is not enough, however, to have an appropriate recovery procedure without the final approval of the committee. Minister, in our negotiations, the target has always been double. On the one hand, to reduce the amount and, on the other, to postpone the repayment period so that we can renegotiate. That is what we have done for the package of the two 'Hatzegakis' recoveries, of EUR 421 million, with seven hundred twenty-five thousand producers, and with the reduction we have achieved of 320 million with ninety-five thousand farmers. If you continue what we had started to change the small farmers from the obligation to repay up to EUR 2 000, then there will be eighty-five thousand, up to 240 million. However, the lists we are debating today come from the application of the laws of 1992 and 2237 1994 and concerned debt arrangements to ATE of eighty-three agricultural cooperatives and former associations, as well as six cooperative companies with a total recovery amount of EUR 465 million. They are known as the packages 'Koskina - Morale'. I refer to names, because they were the respective ministers who managed these recoverys. The package is also added to this, of EUR 108 million for the distribution of money to cooperatives for the purchase of cereals, which means that the allocations exceed a total of EUR 573 million. I would like to give you a sentence from the relevant opinion of the Legal Council of State: 'In order to avoid our country from imposing superfluous fines, which will be borne by all taxpayers, as well as avoiding in the future unpleasant situations which will deprive us of new aid, all the above illegal and incompatible aids must be repaid. Add to this also Article 202 of the Code of Administrative Procedure with which the conditions for the judicial suspension of enforcement of acts ordering their recovery have been specified and limited.’ I mentioned this because all the cases would not have come to blame if our country - listen, ladies and gentlemen, especially in the New Democracy - had informed the European Commission of its action and had the approval of the committee. It's a huge responsibility to the previous ministers. All this, of course, in the astonishing eyes of the obliged cooperatives, who suddenly found that they had to pay retrospectively and indicted what they had been given most of the time by the state law. So you realise how limited the margin of movement available to us was. However, in the light of the public interest and the Greek taxpayer, we have exhausted all the margins and arguments for achieving the best result in all cases. Our aim was to protect the healthy cooperatives, as well as the productive properties of the cooperatives. Along with a representative body of the debtors, but also of the organisations concerned, we have established that the sum of EUR five hundred and three hundred, does not exceed EUR 95 million, since these arrangements with the then Agricultural Bank of Greece were mainly for interest and anatomy, and even for a period when interest rates exceeded 30%. Our documentation was accepted by the then Commissioner for Agriculture, Mr Hogan, at a meeting that we had in June 2018 and promised that he would give his consent to the relevant committee meeting. The answer is still coming. So take this provision back and come back after discussions with the committee have been concluded not only for the specific recoverys, but now you must put all the debts of cooperative organisations to the table. Today's juncture is favourable and allows you to do so. You should be aware that there are several cases of cooperatives that have debts to many creditors other than recoveries. The different regulation from any body for repayment of debts traps the cooperatives in the maze of unserved instalments and eventually result in liquidation. Such a large debt management case is the ‘PQH’ company, which took over the liquidation of the Agricultural Bank and in which the debts and the property of seven hundred and eighteen cooperatives have arrived. The cooperatives can't take any more. That is why, Minister, so that you do not become the fifth Minister, after the four previous ones, which will lead the country to new catastrophes, you are withdrawing this provision and we have a glorious splendid field to discuss, especially the debts of the cooperative space and the huge property that is currently under threat, in order to give it to the rural area. From there on, the rest of us are talking about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u75	Thank you. I call on my fellow Member, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, to step in.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to ask for your understanding, because there has also been a personal issue with the rapporteur of the Civilian Opposition at the beginning of the meeting, so I will need a little more time for your tolerance. Ladies and gentlemen, no doubt the health crisis, the pandemic that we have been through and are still passing, has made us wiser. It has made it clear that tourism cannot be a monoculture and that the economy of the country cannot rely to the tourist product to a maximum extent. At the same time we saw the development of a 'nationalization of food', if we can call it that. Countries producing agricultural and livestock products were negative in their exports. At this time Romania did not export grains, I think, and Turkey lemons. Therefore, this crisis highlights the value of the country's even basic adequacy in food. The major question here arises as to what we are doing to strengthen the primary sector. We need to look back at the country's productive model and support the people of real production, farmers and farmers. And since I am talking about support for these people, Minister, they expect support from you today, and I hope that by the end of the meeting we will be doing so by the end of tomorrow - farmers and, in particular, sheep and goat farmers who have suffered considerable damage because of the pandemic and from the Greekization of milk and meat in the previous period, but also from the reduced consumption of meat because of the particular way in which we celebrated Orthodox Easter this year, without Obelia. The information they had seen the light of publicity in the previous period did not satisfy them. I was pleased that during the debate in committee, in reply to me, you committed yourself to being much braver and not to the measures that you will be aware of, as far as they have seen, the light of publicity as speculation in the media on the ewe 4 euros. The establishment of the so-called Pissaridis committee, the nobelist economist in which the Prime Minister entrusted himself with drawing up a plan for the next day of productive Greece, has already been announced. I would like to believe that the primary sector will have a key role in this project. I would also like to believe, Minister, that a way will be found to obtain substantial amounts for primary production, for our farmers and farmers, from the brave package of support, due to the pandemic in the Development Fund announced by the President of the Commission, which reaches EUR 750 billion. As I said at committee meetings, ladies and gentlemen, the bill deals with a number of outstanding issues, deals with problems, gives solutions to important issues such as the Greekisations that have left us a heavy legacy from the previous government. I shall therefore refer to these issues as an example in the time allowed by the Bureau. The bill dealt with the major issue of the management grazing plans that it had placed in the last five years with the government of SYRIZA. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that redefinition of what is a grassland has taken place in the period of previous government of Samara - Venizelos. Then we have again defined what is a pasture, and that saved subsidies and led to the re-establishment of the fines imposed by the European Union of EUR 466. It is not only the meadows in central and northern Europe, it is not only the vulgar ones, but also the toast and the woody crops. To say it popular, for everyone to understand it, pastures are also the pork on the slopes even on the cliffs where the goats graz. Secondly, it clarifies the institutional framework of sanctions for Greekism. I saw the difficult position in which the Qualificational Opposition was found, which originally attempted to discredit the regulation by saying that it is essentially an incorporation of Community law, a compliance with a European regulation and the unveiling came. That Regulation has been in force since 2017. He was obviously intimidated in the Ministry and in the drawers of the former leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development. There is no doubt that it is very important, because the Greekisations are really a bleeding for the primary sector and especially for our livestock farming. It is also deceiving the consumer, who buys another product than what he actually pays, and of course producers are also affected because they are compressing their income. But, Minister, it is not enough, as you have rightly said, only high fines. Fines are also heard in Titarissios falling cheese from various businesses, our river Elassonite from Elassona, which passes Tirnavos and pours into the Peninsula. Fines, we hear, but fines don't see. We don't know if they ever get to the state budget. You described earlier the fines and imprisonment procedure and how time-consuming it is. However, what we are also seeing is that these obviously do not work deterrently and nobody agrees, because I am 15 years in this Parliament and I am sick of doing parliamentary control on this issue and there is no solution to it. I would therefore like to believe that we will go further, that there will be a strengthening of the control mechanism. We need an audit staff at the Ministry. We need veterinarians. I had asked, when I was at the Ministry, to exclude from the rule of one intake to five departures. We urgently need recruitment of qualified personnel. I come to the third issue, to the ELGA. Today we have seen - oh the miracle - a retraction from the point of view of Officerial Response and its rapporteur. In the Committees, Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Their favorite documento I was alleged to have said that I wished for ELGA's publicity to remain as if Voridis were pulling ELGA into the hammer, as if ELGA was being auctioned, as if we had an auction who would buy ELGA or that ELGA was being demilitarized. We are talking about the possibility for private sector operators too to be able to make agricultural production insurance and to offer competitive packages. I said: 'I wish they could do so'. I personally said that I have questions why ELGA is a non-profit organisation. Farmers' premiums are redistributed as compensation. If there's any possibility, I wish there would be. From there, when we were talking about privatization, it is now my intention to remain the mandatory nature of agricultural production insurance, either in the state ELGA, or in the private companies that might want to be involved in agricultural production. I would like to believe, Minister, that the answer will be affirmative, so until the elections I hope that we will not again hear a debate on the privatisation of the ELGA. The debate on ELGA was interesting, because first of all we had the Minister's commitment that there would be a clear timetable for updating the new ELGA regulation in order to deal with insurance risks, which today are not compensated and your commitment that in the Committee on Production and Trade there will be an integrated debate, an open debate to see what situation our government has received ELGA, which of ELGA's finances that forced this leadership to reduce the advance from 70% to 65%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance, for which you have committed yourself. It is particularly good to regulate and resolve this chronic problem for the coronary, which enables producers from the wider region of Tyrnavos, who have killed their animals and have not received the compensation because the documents have been lost somewhere on the road. Minister, I have said so to the committee, and now I repeat, that from this Step forward, it would be an important signal if these compensations were of interest. It is not the funds that are significant, benevolent, but it is a message contributing to restoring the confidence of a state and of citizens, when the state also owes the citizens the power to do so. I come to the fifth issue of land afforestation. Minister, I have repeatedly asked you to give a solution to this producers, farmers from Florina to Crete, who are called upon to return all the subsidies they received for the environmental programme of afforestation of agricultural land, because twenty years ago some phosphites arbitrarily put in Greece an excessive number of trees per acre, which is impossible to do. I would like to return to my amendment to the regulation of this thorny problem, as well as to a similar decision of the European Court of Justice on a case-by-case basis in Latvia, where I think it is a way out. Here, please, I'm tabling this for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned arrangement, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to believe, Minister, that you will give a solution before further judicial and financially neutralising these people. I also think that the regulation on the universalisation of the collection and burning of dead animals is very positive. I am particularly honoured that this effort continues, which was launched pilotally with the first CSR, which brought my signature when I was at the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. I shall conclude, Mr President - and thank you for your tolerance - by the arrangements of the amendment to the land workers. It is undoubtedly a positive arrangement to be able to work as seasonal land workers and those receiving unemployment benefit. In this respect, as well as the positive regulation with the introduction of the Bachelor, we have repeatedly exercised parliamentary control by showing the way in which to resolve the issue. Of course, similar regulations are also positive, Minister, for the possibility of employment in the agricultural sector of pensioners without losing 30% of their pensions, as well as for retired pensioners in other categories, who will not lose their pension if the agricultural income is up to 10,000. Mr President, I should like to close by saying that all this shows the achilles heel of the primary sector, which is the ageing of the agricultural population, the need to renew the agricultural population immediately, quickly, using specific policies and all the financial instruments, such as the programme for young farmers. Thank you very much, Mr President, particularly for your understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u77	Then, Mrs. Evangelia Liikoli will come to Step by the Change Movement. I have to say, because in the first quadrant I was very diligent with all those who were looking at the timer you would see that no one had interrupted, the same would happen with Mrs Lykoula. From there, we will look at applying the seven-minute time with a small tolerance at all times. Here you go, Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, your Ministry's bill does not come in a politically neutral year, it comes in a very interesting and very critical year. The pandemic on the one hand, the latest developments in our national issues from Agia Sophia to the plots with Turkey are dramatically culminating in a political agenda quite serious. On the other hand, and at the same time, Mr Minister, our awesome system is being tested and the institutions are taking unscrupulous blows from the unscrupulous populists who have made their art government over the past years and who continue unscrupulously with the Greek people themselves, so that they can be politicized by targeting many times, smuggling people with insensitive attacks and even engaging in the art of hypocriticalism. Market behavior and political phony - I've said it before from this Step - is fatal, all I've made of it is recruited, when a fig sheet has not been left and nothing can cover the denominations of works and days. Unfortunately, we have a sum of tragic to show that there were many sins, Minister, of the "many sins of contempt" of the SYRIZA - ANEL. In our nose we still have the smell of the offense scandal just a few days before in this Chamber with political faces, judges, even undeserved journalists, who attempted to make him a dark story in order to feast him to control justice, but also all those who play a role in public life, either as persons with public speech or with their pen. The revelation, however, of the top day is the scandalous mortgage of ten thousand hundred and nineteen real estates of the public property of Greece by the government of SYRIZA - ANEL, Mr Voridis. And they are very important and some properties that are of interest to rural development. That's what we're telling you to hear. That is a good debate with the feds, but we are also contributing to them. So mortgage is scandalous, and after the recent decision of the Council of State, ladies and gentlemen, which shows and proves how they dealt with, the illegality that they have covered in this story that I have already spoken about and been personally targeted over the last 24 hours. So I declare from the Step of the House that the knife will reach the bone you want, don't want, you like it, you don't like it. The Change Movement, our President, Fofi Gennimata and Parliamentary Group are determined that Greek women and Greeks should be informed of every detail of this shameful case, how, what, when, who. They'll all be kept on track all over the country, what are those tens of thousands of nineteen real estates, which have been in oblivion since 2016 until today with the law you made - how have you made it? - No.4389/16. And that's what you keep as a seven-sealed secret, like you don't have to deal with in public. Now, then, we'll see it all in turn for the day to be clear from the wheat. Why am I telling you this, Mr. Voridis? You are a minister of the rural area, of the rural sector. You have to deal with and develop your policies in this, represent the government and practice these policies too. But your policies also have a worthwhile burden. The agricultural sector, which has always been treating it as the precious pit - and it has demands from you in recent years, because it has experienced a misinformation and a supposedly left propaganda, when the rulers have made promises to farmers and farmers and fishermen and have given out of there a mere so-called subsidies and taxes of hundreds of millions of euros in words. They promised support from the primary sector, committed not to taxing farmers. From Thessaloniki, I remind you of the modern Marino Andypa. They promised new seasons with new benefits to young farmers, with cheap oil, reduced contributions to the OGA, reforms to help new agriculture and organic agriculture. But the reality has deplored our producers in the worst way. The Evia-Pappa Minister for Rural Development has left, who has truly "bladed priests"! However, the sloppyness of the left-wing right-wing, the lack of plan for rural space and exports, the inability to monitor developments for the new CAP and your real mania with overtaxation have dissolved in the five winds, in fact, the Greek countryside and the many promising Greek agricultural export sectors. Farmers have had words. They were filled with the populism and the great fairy tales they sold to them and even with the pound. "All pounds - all money" in a new version. So, against this political fraud, you, Minister, what do you come to tell them today? Are you coming to tell them about the "raining" bill? First you've got the whole world to go back to Babiniotis to interpret you. Are you talking about a "rainistic" bill in Platicabo of the Municipality of Killere, Mr. Voridis? To those who mix the sweat with the soil, are you talking about poetry and a 'eranistic' bill? Is that what you're telling them? They - and we together - do you know what they've figured out? That with what you bring to Parliament for a fundraiser you send them, no, you do not make a 'eranistic' bill! Well, it's invasive. It's a distraction. It's a little bit. Good, what's good, it's good. On this - we have the courage of opinions and we do not opposition to the opposition - we will tell you that they are positive provisions, yes, which you have expressed as a complaint. I personally recognize a personal overrun, if you like. Because your profile, Minister, is anti- cannabis, anyway. You have a rigour, one thing, I don't have you for cannabis. Well, you've been personally overtaken, and that's where we recognize her. [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member rings.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u79	You have the tolerance as the previous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u80	I'm counting Maxim's time, so it's all right. Minister, don't tell me, really - and I give up my writing - from the heart that you are the modern reformer of agricultural policy by building the Beekeeping Register. Don't tell us that! Don't tell us what a circular should have made with you, that now you're bringing it here to the great change! Don't tell us! I can't take that. as, also, we cannot afford to say that you are currently making the law on Greekizations with penalties and fines and that it is the great innovation and you leave the mechanism that controls intact and you cannot strengthen it. But because I respect your face and you're a good man as previous speakers have said, so I tell you to prevent your Waterloo. Your Waterlo is ELGA! The ELGA that never goes on time, which never compensates in time, we've asked seventeen questions in the last month, with the grapes, with the quartz, for the cherries, with what's there for the ELGA, and you're throwing the ball in the candle? You're a good player, but you can take the ball off the stand without us seeing it you couldn't. Do you make the ELGA legal service, Minister? So what are you telling us? The fact that you're doing the ELGA legal service, what does that say? Reform the system in depth! He's alive! It doesn't work! It is a finished story, which we must change, which we must all accept together. 'Cause I don't think there's any perfume hands. Is that right? I never say that to the House. All of us accept the responsibilities within time and create a system of ELGAs that will really be modern and effective for Greek farmers. Two remarks and I'm just finishing up so I don't abuse. Look, from Easter to today, we have been counting the lamb and goat from 3.45 pounds to 12.5 which we consumers bought. It should already have meant for the Ministry of Rural Development, not a bell but a code of conduct. You should have realised that not only can you not control the market, that not only can you have absolutely nothing to do with fair competition, but that the thing has gone away, Minister, and you cannot even control it. Can I tell you something? You look like analgesic when you shouldn't. You have signed a CFD - and I ask you today about this in the House - for farmers who mourn their dead animals. You also signed wide - I saw it - 'Borides'. For the dead animals that are lamented by farmers, you have them going from the regions to be compensated with tax and insurance information. Do not tell me 'what to do?' because you are creating a vicious circle, Minister! Because those who are indebted everywhere are asking them to pay, but they can't take the money to pay. So, what are you doing? Basically, you do a hole in the water. I have many more, very important. One of them will only stand out. Why don't you finally offset the contributions from the ELGA to farmers? What for? Why don't you clear them? Why don't you make a policy, such a bold policy, so to be a reformer, not just anti- cannabis, but cannabis? Because the government told you to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u81	But now close because you've done too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, you are right. I apologize.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u83	Shut up. Last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u84	In conclusion, I would like to say to the Minister with great respect: Mr Minister, apart from day-to-day microdispositions and something else that is very essential. The pandemic crisis creates the real opportunity. Why? Because the crisis was healthier, and why the whole world has been oriented and spoken over the past three months about health and the immune system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u85	All right, Comrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u86	The Mediterranean food is therefore the answer, Minister. There you look and find and you will be truly visionary, reformer and - don't mind - let's be an anti-cannabi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u87	May I invite the New Democracy MP, Vassili Yoyaka. Although it's not a lacquer, it says it with a veil and fast. Here, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is gratifying that both the opposition, at least most of it, and the institutions, recognised the need for the provisions which we are debating today and tomorrow, and that the criticism of the substance of the provisions was limited. Let me say that it is not a criticism of the essence of talking about bills without strategy or no added value. Is it not a strategic choice of the government's agricultural policy to fight Greekism? Is it not a strategic choice to prioritise Greek mountain husbandry? Is it not our priority to support Greek quality products with export possibilities? Of course it is. After all, ladies and gentlemen, the reforms are not only done with the so-called flagrant bills. They also have smaller targeted interventions, with much more impact than you think. However, if some still wonder about the value of this bill, let them ask the Greek producers, farmers, ovine and caprine farmers, the beekeepers. Because they're protected. Their products are protected. Their struggle is protected, starting from the much more stringent treatment of the so-called Hellenisms, an unfair practice that defames the quality and authenticity of Greek products, which affect agricultural income, which is at the expense of the consumer as well. It is the first time that it has been introduced as a criminal offence, with a prison sentence of at least three years or even a penalty of money, the production, trafficking and disposal of falsified and harmful foods. This is the first time that those who are cheating on our characterised and quality precious products have to face prison sentences, financial penalties and permanent removal of the use of geographical indications in cases of relapse. This is the first time that evidence of defendants or convicted of criminal offences is allowed to be made public, which has to do with Greek offences. These strict administrative and criminal sanctions are the first step. As the Ministry's political leadership has said, interventions will be taken to reform the principles, staff, procedures and control tools. Because the force to prevent penalties is being strengthened and when the chances of detecting the offenders are increased. I would like to say here that the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, before this bill, has shown that it wants and can intensify controls. For fifteen days before this year's Easter Sunday there has been a coordinated cooperation to record the route of each of the live sheep and goats and slaughtered animals introduced into our country, in order to prevent attempts at Hellenism and to allow consumers to have at their table a certified local lamb and goat. Another initiative helped this was the recording of the stocks of amnorifices and eggs by producers, wholesalers and retailers on a special platform of the Ministry of Development and Investment. So this central choice for effective controls, for more stringent penalties, for mapping producers and production is also confirmed by other provisions of the draft law. It is the National Online Beekeeping Register - no matter how much Mrs Lykoulis has tried to devalue it - with which the real producers are protected. It is the monitoring of the egg production and traceability balance through the ‘ARTEMIS’ database to identify attempts at Hellenisation and other methods of unfair competition. They are, ladies and gentlemen, for years of producer requests, which saw their quality products being devalued and their skilled competitors, often, passing under the radar of the auditing and supervisory authorities. Forget what you knew: arbitraryness, speculation, misleading. They will be identified in a timely manner, confirmed quickly and severely punished. We are sending this message in every direction. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be a omission not to mention some other provisions of particular interest to our producers. The possibility for regions to participate in the administrative, operating and maintenance costs of projects of the GFCMs and of the GFCMs overseeing them. Minister, I would like to say here that we hope for a comprehensive solution to the problem of TWG debts, particularly towards PPC, and that we will soon have communications on your part. It is also the extra time given to farmers to obtain permission for livestock establishments operating in or near residential areas. It is also the amendment to continue to receive unemployment benefit for those employed in seasonal agricultural work. This arrangement, along with other arrangements for the removal of land workers and their insurance with herpes, gives our producers a "fresh" and facilitates the collection of production which would otherwise be destroyed. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, because this has been heard, it is worth making this clear. It is one thing to deal with the problems that have arisen over the years, as is the case with this bill, and it is another thing to deal with the emergency issues that have arisen since the epidemic which concern the primary sectors affected. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister, Mr Voridis, and the Minister responsible, Mr Arabatzi, for their decision to strengthen small and medium-sized aquaculture enterprises, in accordance with the de minimis rule. Minister, you are giving a "liquidity" of liquidity to a very important productive sector, which is necessary for the preservation of the stocks that have been left undisclosed and I hope we have - and we will also have - good news of the compensation of the amnocorps producers. So we see, ladies and gentlemen, that the Ministry already supports farmers and the primary sector, but it does so in the light of the real needs, on the one hand, and the financial possibilities, on the other. So let our colleagues in the 'open doors' be prevented from violating, because the guards have 'knowledge'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u89	We are also grateful for the time approach, not keeping it up. The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Socrates Famelos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you have received a criticism of the bill on behalf of us, to which you have reacted, of the lack of any strategic intervention and of the mere repairs coming from the services. I think that this criticism is correct. No one told you not to bring any such corrections. On the contrary. We in many of them, which were also being discussed during SYRIZA's governance, can also agree. But shouldn't you, along with these corrections, also table a proposal for a strategic nature for rural development? Is it not time, after ten months, to come and say something specific, which corresponds to what your Government sees as about the agricultural sector? That is why we are criticising you, Minister. And whether you are unable, either your Government and your party do not want to table a proposal on the agricultural sector or they cannot. For us, that's clear. You're interested in micro-services. I see there's a congress of MPs. The old state of the right doesn't change. This wants a micro-service, a setup, the voter in the office, the friendly backing. That's the classic right-hand conception. But we will come back and ask again. Do you have the opportunity to table a proposal on the agricultural sector, a strategy, that is to say, where our country needs to be, in order to prove this beneficial both to our state and to our citizens and to our country? I want to tell you this with concern, because we already know that at European level the European strategy 'from farm to dish' or 'fork' is at the same time being discussed together with the European biodiversity strategy as an integral part of the new European Green Agreement. In this field, as we said in committee last week, your Government has tabled no proposals. And it is very important that you cannot table parameters necessary for the next day, which must also be heard in Parliament, but that the agricultural sector should also be heard. So, ladies and gentlemen, a proposal which would see tomorrow and the competitiveness of the country and the agricultural sector should be a proposal for how in 2030 a quarter of agricultural land will be managed by organic farming, as requested by the European biodiversity strategy and rural development. What we are talking about is adding 3 billion additional trees, equivalent to tree crops, to what European policy says. How nutrient losses from fertilisers will be reduced by at least 50% and fertilisers themselves by at least 20% by 2030. How to prevent pesticides from being used in sensitive areas of our country and Europe as a whole. Also, the risk of pesticides and their use should be reduced by 50%. What I am saying to you is European texts, which the Ministry and the Minister have not spoken about. I don't know if they've been read. On the question of whether 10% of agricultural land will consist of features of a high diversity landscape. I could go on about what you are doing about fishing, along with the uses that are being developed in the marine spatial and maritime area, and how to protect the populations, issues clearly mentioned in the European strategy. Also to reverse the decline of insect pollinators, but also to restore the river beds. Of course, I am now telling the New Democracy, which, instead of looking at how to restore the ecological balance, looks at how it will divert Acheloos. I understand that it is absurd to talk to you about what Europe wants, about what the agricultural sector wants, when you are the old classic right-wing service state, with the great ideas that will never be made, but who are feeding the Thessaly world and hiding something very important to him that he will no longer have a management body for Carla. I mean, the badge on Thessaly, the Carla area will no longer have, Mr. Harakopoulos, a badge on it. Because the Carla institution is abolished and even the administrative seat will be transferred to the Alonissos. You are not telling the farmers or talking about them at the Ministry of Rural Development. On the contrary, in the fourth article of the bill you say that the inventory of natural capital will be carried out together by the Ministry's services - you do not know that you have a service responsible for it, it goes well - and you will do so in collaboration with the Management Bodies of Protected Areas, which, by a law three weeks ago, abolished the Ministry of the Environment. And I wonder. Has the Ministry of the Environment read the bill and signed it and does not know that the things written in Article 4 have been abolished? You're the ones who took it out. So you're going to work with the agencies you've abolished to make the physical capital census, which is also an address to the Ministry and you don't use it, but do you create a horizontal, if you want, system, everyone writes about everything? That doesn't mean strategy. That states absence. And most important, of course, is that other products, such as Axis products, the area of mine, will not have the trademark, because the agency of the National Axis park is abolished and along with Kerkin are carrying their seat in Lagada and their administration to Athens. It is what you wanted, the strengthening of private functions, the transfer of all the natural environment activities to an Athenian-centre group of the Ministry of the Environment, that is to say, another body, not the Ministry of the Environment, which had a Biodiversity Directorate. In fact, I understand why you're doing all this. Because the classic right-wing state wants the rosées to the "blue children". Because you have predicted abolishing the ASA to all operators, from PPC to this Natural Environment Agency, in order to appoint individuals as well. You've been through here. But that's the classic right. The question is why are you not investing in agricultural policy? Because you don't care about the small- and medium-sized farmer. You don't care about Greek production. You are interested in how you will likely assemble property, you will remove small and medium-sized entrepreneurship at all levels of production and economy, and you will only strengthen your friends. This is clear because, for me, it is funny that the support you gave to farmers was much less than the de minimis we had given outside the pandemic, but that all you found to pass through the House last week - and I say this because Mr Vorides was with me in the committee of inquiry on loans - was how you would give bankers ambivalence for the loans of parties and the media, one and a half billion euros, the money of the Greek citizens, who entered into the recapitalisation of banks having no criminal responsibility. That's what you want to do. Take care of and cover your buddies. And you are not talking at all about the possibility of reducing farmers' oil, which we now have the possibility, and we have anticipated in the budget after the Memorandum of Understanding, you are not discussing micro-credits, the possibility of cooperatives replacing the mediator. For even whatever price the farmers will not benefit from, but the mediators on whom farmers depend, because they do not have the technical support or financial support that micro-credits and cooperatives would make. Because all you tried to do was abolish the cooperatives or privatise them. It was the only bill you brought and voted on. [[This is where the ending bell is ringing, Mr. Papoutsis.]] Mr President, this also concerns the industrial cannabis which you are effectively preventing, and also the grazing land which has been falsely mentioned before that, with your own legislative initiatives, we have won the extension of grazing land in Europe. It was initiatives of our own government. I remember Mr Apostle and the extension of the regulation which enabled many grazing lands to exist for Greek producers. Mr President, I will conclude with an issue relating to PDOs, the Organised Rural Development Areas of Aquaculture. I saw the arrangements you have in the bill. They're not essential. I would like to say to you that you do not have any politics or knowledge of this sector. Because in the area of Thermaikos, we started in 2016 the largest relocation in the Mediterranean of mydo-culture units for a product that is 80% export. And as the relocation started, we gave the first permit, the PDOH Pierias, and we prepared the organisation for the environmental study for the PDO Thermaikos, today I have to tell you that the corresponding service has no head, that the relocations have stopped, that we have biotoxins, that we do not know whether the producers will export, that there are products that are even six months within the sea. And all of this is possibly managed by expanding arbitrary new functions in the area. That's your perspective. It has nothing to do with exports, nothing to do with the environment, nothing to do with the racing of Greek society. And all that you stopped on your own, and they were on their way, they were on their way. It was the first PDO that was approved in the region and we did so here, together with my SYRIZA colleagues. But I would like to say, Mr President, that we have heard about an amendment, which I do not know if you are aware of, which concerns the Cornelian region. Subscribed from Saturday press release and Sunday. I do not know if you as Parliamentary spokesman are taking this into account. Mr Hatzidakis announced that we are resolving the problem of Cornelia, we will have an amendment. I do not know whether I can reserve my vote on the amendment later, but I do not want to violate the Rules of Procedure. However, if you would like to bring an amendment, I would ask you to take into account Mr Karaoglu's press release before tabling it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u91	After all, this issue is tomorrow on articles and amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u92	Yes, but I don't know if I'm going to have the floor, Mr. President. I would like to tell you, then, that if it brings an amendment tomorrow...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u93	Let's not talk about something that doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u94	Yes, but because I've seen the Ministry's press release, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u95	In addition, you have a rapporteur, and you also have a parliamentary representative. Let's not talk about something that doesn't exist. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u96	I'll be done. So if tomorrow, according to Mr Hatzidakis' press release, there is an amendment that transfers the responsibilities for Koronea to the Ministry of the Environment and is being discussed here, please note that the only presence of Mr Karaoglou, the Deputy Minister of Macedonia and Thrace, was a press release that I see should be quite old, October 1, which announces four direct actions for Cornelia. Turns out none of them did, and now you're taking it to the Ministry. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This stability in your policy and confidence in your executives literally surprises me. But you know, why don't we do this more? Because we know you never had your eye on Thessaloniki or Macedonia. The office of Prime Minister in Thessaloniki is still missing, as is the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace. At least, however, let us help the Greek environment, because the Master Plan of Cornelia, SYRIZA, has closed it with public resources, because you have given up that too. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u97	The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Lazarides, has the floor. Those who were not in the morning must be aware that at 18.00 the sitting is closed and those who do not speak until then will precede the debate tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u98	And the ones on the list tomorrow when will they talk? 'Cause tomorrow we'll be done at 19: 00.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u99	Listen. The debate on the articles will normally begin tomorrow. The rapporteurs will be placed on the table, so that the list opens up with Members who may not speak today. But if we make a good effort, they might talk. That's how I notice. Mr. Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Famelle, we described what you probably didn't get to do three and a half years in the government. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the return to normality with the necessary adjustments proves that the Mitsotakis Government's plan to relocate all the productive sectors of the country is in full progress. It confirms that there are no delays in state modernisation, there are no grounds for not correcting pathogens. There are no revolts in the country's overall development and in this overall vision of the development of the primary sector is reflected in the country's new bet. What do I mean? One of the first conclusions of the Covid health crisis -19 is that it has serious and unforeseen consequences for a wide range of economic activities throughout the planet. Another conclusion that can be safely come out is that the less dependent an economy is an economy from a sector or industry the more easily and quickly it can find growth and rebooting courses for the next day. In our country, the tertiary sector, the services sector, in which tourism is part of tourism, is 70% of the country's GDP. In order to reduce the impact on the tourism sector, we need to put a new word into the vocabulary of our political aiming. Who's that? The word differentiation. The Greek economy needs immediate and urgently diversified sources of revenue. The answer to this need may well be given by the sleeping giant of the Greek economy, the primary sector. The primary sector participates with 4% in GDP, and with processing it reaches 8% of GDP. Our aim must be to reach the primary sector at 20% of the country's GDP on terms and conditions of innovation, implementing forward substantial reforms. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we doing with this draft law? We put the foundations to win this bet. We describe and define clearly and functionally our vision of the future of almost all sectors of the primary sector in our country. We are taking an essential step towards rejecting the weights that have so far prevented the primary sector from proving and demonstrating its dynamism, to highlight its comparative advantage as a development agency in the country. This is a genuinely practical draft law. Simplifies, heals, improves, releases. Innovative law innovations are many and important. For example, the digital beekeeping register allows us to support those who are really beekeepers. At the same time, it prevents the introduction of doubtful honey that is distorted and sold as Greek. Comprehensive regulation of the issues of the agricultural accountancy network is a single sample of the overall adjustment to the realistic and innovative management of the agricultural product. This is a draft law that makes me feel that I can bring good news to Kavala, inform, provide incentives and support reliably all those involved in agriculture, fisheries, livestock, apiculture and aquaculture. What am I going to tell Stavros in Keramoti, Costas in Nea Karya, Vangelis in Thassos, Alekos in Podochori? I will tell them to simplify the administrative procedure for assessing new types of fertilisers from urban or industrial waste, I will tell them about clarifying and improving the legislation on land improvements, I will tell them about extending the deadline by December 2020 for issuing a permit for the installation of livestock facilities, I will tell them about the possibility of aid with additional staff from the ELGA legal section in order to speed up the time-consuming procedures. But also for all my fellow consumers, I will say about the predictions it contains in dealing with the scourge of Hellenism. The fight against the scourge of Hellenism, ladies and gentlemen, which the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, had undertaken in the run-up to the elections, is now being carried out. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law gives us an excellent opportunity to see our next steps in the direction we are drawing up today, to see a series of economic leverage and investment reforms, to invest in changing the agri-food model by turning to extroversion and consumption. Furthermore, to link primary production to renewable energy sources in the context of the cyclical economy and environmental protection, but also to tourism and the chemical - pharmaceutical industry. Let us see the change in crop composition with the aim of a 12-month disposal, as well as the adoption of new innovative methods in cooperation with universities and research bodies. To promote biogas systems with raw material, agricultural residues and the establishment of recovery components, as well as energy communities. Ladies and gentlemen, the development of the agricultural sector in Greece has in any case been a necessity. At this juncture, however, it must be a political priority. The relationship between the primary sector and local development is inseparable and time-consuming. We must now become a national immediately structural policy. In conclusion, I would remind you of the pre-election commitment of the New Democracy which is currently due to be a direct political priority to contribute more actively and more structurally to the next day of economic relaunching, to mark another package of critical reforms by strengthening the image of the wider national investment environment both internally and abroad. And this must be done with determination, with design and dynamism, without delays, without 'yes but'. That is what we are doing today, and that is what we are describing tomorrow in the primary sector, a tomorrow that, beyond proudness, has to find us in agreement. It is obvious that I am voting in favour of the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u101	I thank Mr Lazarides for keeping time. And I call on the New Democracy MP to step up, Mr Zetta Makri. Wait a minute, let's take care of the step. Here, Mrs. Makre, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President. Speed to programming, excellent methodicity and commitment to the objective characterise the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr.Makis Voridis, the current Deputy Minister Mr.Arabatzis, as well as their partners, in order to implement the election commitments of Kyriakos Mitsotakis for reforms in the primary sector aimed at strengthening competitiveness and moving to a new modernistic model of rural, livestock and fishing entrepreneurship. Thus, in less than three months of the Greek Parliament ratifying the core of these reforms of the cooperative rural movement, the Ministry of Rural Development and Food comes with its new racist legislative initiative to put an end to chronic pathogens and arrhythmias, to settle outstanding issues, created or not solved during the previous governance of SYRIZA, to cover legislative gaps and to correct failures in a wide range to reconstruct the primary sector and to demonstrate it to one of the main levers of economic development, as well as the country's productive reconstruction. Most importantly, however, the highly ambitious agenda of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food - which is the New Democracy's programme commitment - is now taking flesh and bone with the introduction of new innovative legislation, which has been missing all these years from its reflection and practice and has made the primary sector anachronistic and static. Indicative list: The overall layout of the issues of the agricultural accounting information network by amending and supplementing relevant provisions with the operation and work of the National Committee for Agricultural Accounting. The creation and operation of the apiculture register, i.e. the establishment of a single and organised system for the registration, inventory and identification of all beekeepers and beekeeping capital and the establishment of an individual apiculture identity. The regulation of the institutional framework for veterinary medicinal products. The introduction of provisions on the regulation of fishing, the development of aquaculture and the imposition, where appropriate, of sanctions against fishing vessels and the regulation of the operating of organised aquaculture development areas. The introduction and settlement of procedures for the collection and management of dead animals through decentralised regions. He made a great deal of reference to this shame in his speech. To settle with an amendment to increase employment in the primary sector and to create an integrated legal framework to address the problems caused by pandemic, such as the settlement of the issue of post-mortem land workers. More than ever, this arrangement is now needed during the fruit harvest period and finding a solution to the issue of their insurance. The possibility of working as land workers, people receiving unemployment benefits without interrupting their provision. The taking of measures to support the pensioners of the OGA and the pensioners of other actors, including the public, in order to be employed as farmers, beekeepers, farmers and fishermen, without reducing their pensions, since, of course, their income from agricultural activities does not exceed EUR 10 000. Of course, the crown of all the provisions of this bill, which is an absolute priority of government policy, is to combat the issue of illegal Greekism, with systematic treatment, as persecution and punishment of illegal behaviour for the first time will be in close cooperation with the audit bodies. The Hellenisation of products, especially products with a designation of origin - known to all PDOs - are scourges that have been affecting agricultural income for many years, deceived the consumer and fainting the national economy, because unfair competition, illegal enrichment and shameful gains are created by those who have been baptizing Greek products, at the expense of the law-makers, at the expense of consumers, at the expense of public health, at the expense of the public interest. The management for the first time of the criminal offence against protected products with a designation of origin, by introducing heavy criminal and administrative penalties, as well as by tightening the range of administrative fines relating to the food sector for infringements of production, origin or processing are intended to break the time-consuming abstention of Hellenism, finally setting effective regulatory and institutional framework. An additional measure in the direction of combating Greekisations is the inclusion of undertakings producing and marketing eggs for consumption in the new ‘ARTEMIS’ database for the effective control of traceability balances and the treatment of unfair practices, in particular of Greekisations. Ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of modern trends and policies in agriculture, livestock and fisheries is an extremely great challenge, as the project is very difficult. At the same time, however, it is also a huge opportunity. This draft law seeks the Ministry of Rural Development and Food to create a modern and competitive primary sector that produces quality products while reducing production costs, while being at the forefront of the development plan for the country's future. At the same time, with its implementation, agriculture, fisheries and livestock will be able to become the key pillars for rural economic development and the increase in the share of rural production in GDP. After all, and only the provision for effective measures against the wound of Hellenism gives a separate, high and heavy added value to this legislative initiative, since it is, on the one hand, a complete proof but at the same time secure guarantee of a change of attitude and a modern path towards accelerating and sustainable development on the global demanding and competitive market. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much for the time economy, not only for its respect, but also for our room for manoeuvre. The speaker of SYRIZA Mr Kostas Zachariadis now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, thank you. We owe a deep bowage to the rural world, which, in the quarantine, worked and exposed, and was at risk of the supply chain standing, so that there could be products in the supermarkets, in the popular markets, in the grocery stores and in the grocery stores in the neighborhood. Without these people, our life would be inviolable, without them we could not have succeeded. For them, it is not enough for the self-evident applause, but we must now ensure their health, income and modernisation of their infrastructure. It is now clear, after the 10-year economic period of 2008-2018, the new economic period due to the economic scanning of the pandemic, that vague questions about the production model are raised for the medium- and long-term structure of the country's economy and the eurozone. The monoculture of services, tourism and focus, the non-dispersal of capital invested in the country will cost us too much. And yet, we could, and we could, differently. And yet we could do better. The global economy is changing and will change and a partial decentralisation of production and consumption is likely in the next period, with the strengthening of regional and local economies. The big question, therefore, in this transitional period is what our country, Greece, claims for itself and its position within Europe. In this debate we must not forget that the rural economy, production, meets with climate change, the extreme and densely destructive weather phenomena, the major changes taking place in water reserves, soil productivity, the durability of crops. So what is Greece's plan and what is Europe's plan? Farmers, fishermen, agricultural cooperatives, unfortunately, were one of the last CFPs that joined the Government's support package against the consequences of the pandemic and, indeed, with strong pressure from society and the opposition. You'll tell me not to complain because they're in. Of course, someone can say that if we weren't yelling and some might not have come in, but the matter isn't there. The question is that there is absolutely no government support for the primary sector. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he is prepared to give us an answer on this matter. So what about the outstanding payments of the ELGA? This bill doesn't answer. There's a lot of damage in the country. There is no such thing as the luxury of delays. It costs and destroys every day. SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance spoke clearly about the farmer, the farmer, the fisherman. We talked specifically and costlylyly. In the 'We Stay upright' programme farmers, farmers and fishermen are not invisible. SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance considers that the funding of the support programme for the agricultural sector with national resources of 150m euros announced by the government is clearly lacking in needs. The agricultural enterprises affected and the cooperatives are, in our opinion, fully covered by the umbrella of basic horizontal measures announced in the "Measure of Into the Right", i.e. the unrefundable new aid and the replacement of wage costs, and the farmers as natural persons are covered by the emergency income forecasts. So what we are proposing - and it is important to adopt it - is immediate measures of EUR 300 million, which we announced last week, and are also those which had been announced through the tools of the Rural Development and Financial Tools programme of the Development Bank, which had already been foreseen before the outbreak of the pandemic. The additional resources that may come from European funds, which seem to be possible to agree between the European institutions, should have at their centre and in the rural world, and not have an distribution that we will forget the needs of the present and future, the productive and consumer model that we want to create for the country, to correct imperfections and weaknesses that create a problem. In the rest of the time I have left, I would also like to raise an issue that is out of bill material, but I think it's socially. George Floyd's tragic story is beyond the United States' borders these days. It reaches all over the world because, along with racism, it also highlights the inequality that is growing. The history of this man is about all the societies, about the poor, the weak, the victims of wars, the refugees, the refugees of poverty, i.e. immigrants, the victims of racism, intolerance, intolerance and social marginalisation. It is also about Greece. So the question is, "Who will be next?" It's real everywhere in the world. Will he be a protester? Will it be a young person who has a different appearance or choice of preferences? The Cretan who looks like Pakistani, as happened a few days ago in Crete, can it be? Look at what Nikos Alvizatos wrote, the Chairman of the Informal Monitoring Committee for Police Violence, among other things, handing over his report: "The inconvenience of the ESAs and other interrogations within the police department leads to no liability. This impunity, however, has obvious side effects, perpetuates unacceptable and condemnable practices." Greece, therefore, has entered a new cycle of insecurity, economic hardship, the expansion of inequalities, a crisis in the management of migration-refugee flows, and suddenly we learn that this committee has completed its work since 4 May, even giving the Minister the lesson. When will the finding be made public? Why hasn't the finding been given yet? What's next? We live in a world that is being tested in Greece which is being tested for the second time in a decade, in a society that can give birth to conflicts and tensions. For us a guide should be the democratic measure, the protection of the weak through institutions and collective initiatives so that we do not wonder tomorrow who will be next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Mr Fotini Arabatzis, State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, following the hopeless attempt of counter-population to underestimate both the volume and quality of the legislative work of this political leadership and, of course, the strategy of the Ministry of Rural Development, I just want to remind you of the history that the first bill of the SYRIZA Government on rural development was almost one year after your term of office, namely, 4-12-2015, with only substantial regulation, in the hands of this extension of the deadlines for the completion of the management grazing plans. And, if I remember correctly, a total of the bills that the previous SYRIZA government'srut down' on agricultural matters did not exceed three. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the bill of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food at the National Representation coincides with a truly historic, extremely positive one for our country, the Greek economy and especially the agri-food sector, the country's largest historical funding from the European Union of between 55 and 60 billion by 2027. In fact, given that a large part of this money will be directed towards actions and initiatives that directly or indirectly affect the rural economy, it is easy to understand that we will obviously not have such an opportunity again to make the primary sector a protagonist of the Greek economy not in words, of course, but in projects and to rebuild it on strong foundations, such as increased productivity, stronger outwards, its digitisation and the adoption of precise farming applications, its association with processing, quality, certification, innovation, the greater and stronger collective schemes to make the necessary economies of scale and reduce production costs, the negotiating power of collective schemes on the markets. So this is the great picture of Greek agriculture. In this great picture we are adding today, with this bill, many new votes. Substantial structural interventions, another link in the chain of the integrated project that we have been implementing since our first day at the Ministry under the leadership of Minister Maki Voridis. Therefore, the provisions contained in the krone bill dealing with the scourge of Hellenism are far from being scorpions, such as depreciation to the limits of arrogance, you have rushed to describe them, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Of course, at the same time, the productive world of the country has almost been reluctant, as demonstrated by the hearing of bodies, to welcome them and to seek them for many years, but, you see, you have been hollowing on the wall of yours. Far from us trial of intent, but history, ladies and gentlemen, does not change and unfortunately we are not in 2014, but in 2020. Six years ago you could, if necessary, invoke that you had not yet exercised authority. Now, you have four and a half years, fifty-four months, government service on your back. So, what did you do to deal with the Hellenisms? The absolute zero. We have said this in detail in committee. Not only were you inactive and abstract, not only were you challenging, I would say, eyes to what was illegal in the market at the expense of, of course, the producers, the law-abiding businessmen and the entire Greek economy, but in practice you let the Greeks reap. The result was unfortunately felt by all producers and, above all, by farmers in their pockets. For example, sheep and goat milk, whose prices collapsed by driving a large part of livestock farmers out of production. That is why our Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, in a timely light of the criticality of this issue, has raised the treatment of Hellenism as a strategic priority for the government and of course the Ministry of Rural Development. For the first time, therefore, such a tightening of the legislative framework at the expense of Greekmakers is being legislated. For the first time the PDO, PGI, SPD, our national rural wealth is protected by such criminal protection. For the first time, the slap in the label, the identity fraud is making such a threat to prison sentences of up to five years, cumulatively with a penalty and fines that can even exceed 600,000 euros and be equated with what the offender has earned. For the first time, ladies and gentlemen, Greek writers are threatened with the withdrawal of a product designation of origin, as promised by Prime Minister in Carditsa on May 6, 2018. For the first time Greekmakers can go out in the handkerchiefs with an order of the competent prosecutor. For the first time with the corresponding addition to exports there is criminal protection of the country's reputation abroad. The spirit of determined treatment of Greekisations naturally runs the entire bill with the provisions for both the National Electronic Apiculture Register and, of course, the provisions for the inclusion at last of the dynamic industry of egg production in the balances of ELGO "DIMITRA". We have an absolute feeling that this is an undertaking demanding and complex. The hardest thing, if you want, is to regain the confidence of the citizens in the state, who have been listening for many years to stop the Hellenism, but have not seen light. But now, the strengthening of controls, the unification of all databases and the valuable cross-checking information automatically collected by who, from where, with how much it produces and what it states will make controls and transparency new regularity in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, the fortification of Greek agriculture and livestock farming is not exhausted in the legislative process of a genuinely deterrent framework for the gangrene of Greekizations. In order to bring Greek livestock farming to life, it is necessary first of all to ensure the necessary vital legal space for its replacement and development. The provisions of Article 8 of the bill allow existing livestock facilities and existing areas in or near residential areas operating without authorisation to be authorised until 31/12-2020. It will be wondered whether the problems of existing livestock establishments are resolved only by a simple extension of dates. Unconditionally, no. That is why, as our Minister has already announced, we are soon to put a draft law that, among other things, improves and simplifys further the existing licensing regime for livestock establishments under Law 4442/2016. Even more, however, knowing of the real problems affecting the daily life of farmers in relation to existing livestock establishments, we have made a working group of course made up of service providers, but also representatives of the collective bodies of farmers' organisations of all kinds, which recorded the weaknesses of the other provisions of Law 4056/2012, such as the definition of rough accommodations and restrictions on the authorisation of works, for example, the management of eggs in a livestock establishment, the management of specific waste, the inability to legalise or extend existing facilities due to non-compliance with the distances laid down in Article 20 of that law by other activities or professional areas which usually, ladies and gentlemen, emerged from the establishment of the livestock unit as well as many other issues. It is a working group that worked hard and made proposals that are realistic for the further simplification of the institutional framework with a view, of course, to the sustainable development of these farms, subject to their legitimate functioning. As far as fisheries are concerned: First of all, by listening to the President of the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos talking about aquaculture and saying that we have lost our position in the European Union in terms of the volume and value of the producers, I would like to say to the President that thankfully, the aquaculture sector continues to hold the lead in relation to the volume and value of the product at European Union level, and fortunately, to the Ministry under the guidance of our Minister of Maki Voridis, very important initiatives have been taken for the aquaculture sector. I will not just mention the de minimis allowances of the Temporary Framework for State aid for the loss of income suffered by small and medium-sized aquaculture farmers from the koruna pandemic. I will refer very quickly to the fact that we have finally unlocked the benchmark specifications of the specific spatial framework, the marine spatial planning framework, which was required by the government of SYRIZA, that is, in 2016, to be assessed, and then you were buying a field in time d.t, I would say, with the co-legislative Ministry of the Environment, we have found a road map for the adoption of the most important presidential decrees for the areas of integrated aquaculture development. Three of these, the so-called WHITE, have already left the Ministry, when on your day, Mr Arachovitis, only one PDO has been approved. As far as fisheries is concerned, I will say that we are introducing provisions in order to relieve the loop of fines for our fishermen. Article 12(2) deletes the administrative penalties for the removal of an authorisation of a professional vessel imposed by 31 December, provided that the fines imposed have been paid and thus restored an injustice suffered by hundreds of fishermen on the sole criterion that the fine should be the duration of the infringement, i.e. if you carried out the infringement in 2006, the anticipated fine was only EUR 60 if you carried out the infringement in 2014. As regards the symbolic shrimp and the unfounded risks of the former Deputy Minister of State, Santorini, who made them to the committee last week, I would like to say that we have taken care, Mr Colleague, of the Minister for the issued the ministerial decision allowing us to start from the end of May until September of a four-month period for the Senegal shrimp. Obviously, the Minister did so correctly, so I have the letter here - and I am tabling it in the Minutes - which the fishermen of the flag shrimp say about how timely and correctly we have acted. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Fotini Arabatzis, presents the above letter for the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In order to make the adoption of the relevant ministerial decisions more flexible and to avoid any future delays we establish the provision in Article 12(1), the possibility of extending these decisions for an additional year. Ladies and gentlemen, the upgrading and modernisation of the agricultural sector cannot, of course, be achieved without the existence of workers, a chronic problem which has, of course, extended the attitude of your government, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, to the establishment of a customer-paying policy under the cloak of the welfare state that is actually overturned. The ideological identity of the New Democracy in support of work, production and progress and subsidisation of work, rather than unemployment, finds the perfect application in the relevant addition - an amendment tabled by the Minister in his speech just now with the consortium of the Ministries of Finance and Labour. For the first time, we consider the possibility for beneficiaries of unemployment benefit to be able to go to rural jobs, be legally employed without losing the unemployment benefit, a regulation which solves the hands of the employers' and employers, increases the income of the unemployed, a regulation that in fact overturns black economy phenomena, which, unfortunately, were observed with undeclared work as they were in practice working illegally to avoid losing the allowance. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in closing - and I thank you, Mr President - when the new President of the European Commission presented the new Green Agreement months ago, namely, the plan to develop Europe on the first climate neutral continent, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis made the brave decision to place our country in the lead of this effort, overthrowing the bad precedent of Greece to be usually a retreat of developments, confined to back fights. When the pandemic was inhabited by Kyriakos Mitsotakis, he took another brave decision and thus saved thousands of Greek lives, and all together we succeeded in Greece being seen as an example to be imitated around the world. It is this seriousness and credibility of our country that, together with the appropriate moves in the negotiating chess board, led to this unhistoric former development package from the European Union. At this historic moment for Europe, Greece's time is projecting, the time of the Greek agri-food sector. I say this again, the opportunity is historic because the traditionally comparative advantages of Greek agricultural products, such as safety, quality and taste, are indeed magnified by the rebranding that our country has achieved as the safest country in the world. Think, ladies and gentlemen, a country beautiful with undeniable history and culture, a country endowed with land, sea and climate and exceptional products to be the most secure country from the pandemic at the same time. This opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, we are not entitled to and should not lose. With farmers, farmers, fishermen, fishermen and beekeepers, people of labor on the front line, the new Greece will be the country of production, the country of destination, the country of multiplier value. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u107	Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution, Mr Constantine Hetas, has called for and will be given the floor. Until the Step is prepared, I would like to say and recall that the sitting will be closed at 6 p.m. with the resolution on the principle of the draft law. I say this so that the rapporteurs of the parties will certainly be in the Chamber. Warm request if time can be observed so that the largest number of colleagues can speak today. Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. After the analysis of the President of the Greek Solution, Mrs Velopoulos, on a very important subject for the Greek Solution, we consider, Madam President and Minister, that primary production, the agricultural sector is the pillar of the national economy and we have presented it many times. I have listened very carefully to the Minister. I want to convince you that we're on this development highway. I am not convinced or convinced that with what you are doing you can achieve it. We think he wants more serious fields and bigger risks. I shall refer to some other things, because my time is limited. As a parliamentary representative of my party today I shall refer, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to two very important issues which concern the country not only now but also before. Unfortunately, however, we will see them before us for too long. I'll start with Greek-Turkish, with what we're experiencing. We have said so many times and I am pleased to be addressing a minister who I would like to believe is close to our own views. I would therefore like to address the parliamentary representative, that is to say, to the government. I don't know if I'm going to go to the New Democracy Party or the Government any more. To be told by some of the followers, but really and literally, what are the red lines of Greece? We've been yelling for a while. I do not like the answer 'why do you want to make war?' I do not like what Mr Denkias said 'we are not in the normal days'. What kind of time are we in? The head down and we take what the sultan does to us? They say a lot about Erdogan, he's unpredictable. It's not unpredictable. He's the most predictable politician we could have toward us. We know very well what he's doing. We know very well what's on his mind and we know very well how far it's going to arrive. And it says it every day. I wish we were disobeyed. He'll send drills. There's no way. He'll send them. What do we have to do? Shouldn't we talk about this until he's in front of us? It's a lot. That's not all. What are the red lines? As long as I remember ourselves here and the president, he says so and he'll keep stressing it. Tell us what the red lines are. Let's all talk together, say what the red lines are. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] We believe that a change of doctrine, more aggressive initiatives and differences in our foreign policy are needed. It's an outdated model of Mr. Dendia's politician. Greece cannot be represented by Mr. Dendia on the foreign policy side. It is completely ineffective - to say things as they are - it is a lover of wooden statements and lionisms and it is confusing us. He doesn't know what he wants. That is, of course, also the case within your party. Some of you are pro, some are against. He, for example, is not in favour of doctrine or of the view that the fence at our borders is necessary. You know that very well. He has said it two years ago, and he thinks it is an ineffective solution. You now come as a party and adopt some of our proposals wrongly. Because we're not just talking about a fence. We say walls too. And in order to become a fence at that point, the point of the relapse for Mr. Treasury in Evros we had the other day in the apiculture house, needs a wall first and then the fence will enter, so that the fence can be supported. The fence has to be done. So Mr Nindia's policy does not agree with Mr Vitsa's view, which says that he thinks that we should make a fence, but leave a passage, he says, so that anyone who asks for asylum can pass. So, where do you differ as politicians? Separate your position. Who represents the New Democracy? The Prime Minister? The Foreign Minister, Mr. Dendias, who does not agree that the fence is effective? Bogdan, for example, says 'yes, in the fence'? Who represents the party? The Parliamentary Representative? Tell us what your party's line is, so we can figure out exactly what you're representing. Because we do not just say fences, we say walls and we say mines and much more, so that we can make it clear to these strange people that we have to the contrary that Greece does not lift a fly on its sword. And that's not a ruler policy. It is a defence of our national rights. It's over and out. And I won't go to the equipment. I'm not going to ask what happened with the modernisation of the F-16, which even the day before yesterday we had a strike in ODA, because you had taken 10% back and now you've seen it again. You put it in an amendment the other day. I'm not going to go to all this. We are unable here as a state - or as a government - to put the head of a minority party, the DEP, who is listening to what he has said now. The President of the Republic made a visit to Thrace, and we were also put by Mrs DEP, the minority party, because she did not go to meet her. And this lady is still there instead of deporting her from our country. So this lady is still there, who had to be deported and swing our fingers, because the President of the Hellenic Republic did not meet the minority party. What do you think? Where have we seen these? And I'm going to another topic, Minister. I'm worried about that. You happen to always be next door to me when we talk about this or when we get out of there. When the MATs and the police beat Greeks, as happened in Malakasa the other day, you're always next to me here. I'm nervous about that. Full failure of your Government and the New Democracy. We have a plundering of the state, an invasion of illegal immigrants, and we do nothing. Malakasa's gone. Mylonakis went the other day because he is his constituency, and yours and Mr. Mylonakis. They were taking the world again. They've destroyed everything: children's joys, swings have broken, churches, squares, everything. What happens on the islands. And what about it? Mr. Mitsotakis' booting goes on, doesn't stop here. This is a huge issue. And on Friday that comes to us and the issue with the NGOs here will be discussed, in the timely question of Mr Velopoulos, we will say much more. And I have not read any statement - and I am actually closing with it, because I respect the Members who have to speak - I have not read any patriotic statement from the colleagues of New Democracy Bogdano, Plori, Kyranakis and so on. for the wood accepted by the Greeks the day before yesterday by the MATs and even two UKas in those who went to defend their land, their property. Put an end to this. We're not going to analyze it here today in the sixty seconds I have. You know how to end this. Get them all out of here. Take them to uninhabited islands. You are getting money from the European Union. Let's go make structures there. Get them out of the mainland and our islands. It's the destruction of our country. He'll be after you on the subject, as SYRIZA is after the Macedonian.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Heta. Just because you have referred to me, I must tell you that I am not the only one who says that there is a need for this to go through and so on. International law says that when there is such a procedure, the host State must have some passages that the other person can go. What am I supposed to do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u110	What process? I'm talking about an invasion into our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u111	I say what International Law says. So count that, too. Mr Gikas has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u112	Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin with two comments before entering the substance of the bill. The latest SYRIZA colleague in his report, which I confess to isolately understood, said that in recent years, inequalities in our country have been widened and tried to say that events in America, namely the murder of Floyd, affect our country as well. I really can't understand this association. Our country is a different country, it is a rule of law. There are no such situations. Let the United States be able to do so at this time, but also because there are 40 million unemployed in the United States. The second point I wanted to make is precisely because my speech is the first since the coronary crisis. It's been early March. I mean, the Greek Government has been fighting an unprecedented crisis for some time. And because, as the ancients have said, "One of the results of each of them before they exist is judged", indeed the present image of the country in relation to other countries is quite different. It is a safe country, and with the moves taken by the Prime Minister and the Greek Government, we have managed to save the coronary pandemic with a common flu and, of course, with the participation of the Greek people and all of us. Now, of course, we have an uphill road ahead of us. It is the fight for the recovery of our economy, as, of course, because of this great crisis, we will have the recession. And here the Greek Government has already made good decisions and with its significant participation in the funds that it has made available in the European Union, it has succeeded in making substantial funds, important financial instruments to use for recovery. So in the context of the fight for the recovery of our economy, I think this bill also has a real reason, because its provisions have a serious economic impact. I am going to deal with three issues. Firstly, as all my fellow Members have said, there are the provisions on Greekism. This is a serious matter. Let me remind you that we had it included in our election programme last year. We can see that the Ministry of Rural Development is indeed working methodically in this area. I would remind you that at the beginning of April an amendment was tabled, which required all wholesale and retail businesses of sheep and goatmeat and eggs to declare their stocks on the Ministry of Rural Development's website. In this way, the relevant directorates gained a picture of the stock of the market, and thus entered a brake on the Greek meat arrangements before Easter. With today's bill we come and tighten up the legal framework for infringements concerning the way in which food is produced, the place of origin and the processing of foodstuffs. It should be stressed that to date no effective criminal prosecution was envisaged for such fraud, while administrative sanctions were fragmentary and I would say very high. In particular, the administrative fine for the production and disposal of distorted foods ranged from EUR 500 and reached EUR 30,000 in exceptional cases. Today it is rising to EUR 15 000 and goes up to EUR 80,000. In the event of misleading labelling and advertising for the place of production or processing of food, fines will range from EUR 30 000 to EUR 30 000. This will be the fine where there is no proper labelling for PDO products - Protected Designation of Origin -, PGI, SPV, biological etc. This is how a brake comes into this scourge and the immunity that existed, and of course criminal sanctions are also provided for, until the five years of imprisonment. Since time is running, I would like to refer to the apiculture issues, namely the apiculture provisions, because - many people may not know it - in Corfu, which is my constituency, there is a significant number of beekeepers - over a hundred ten - and even a healthy cooperative. The provisions of this bill favour beekeeping. The National Electronic Apiculture Register is established and it replaces the printed form that they had regions as we know. This reduces bureaucracy, and we are finally getting a more complete picture that will help to limit and deal with cases of theft, distortion, to monitor the market in honey and other apiculture products. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It is an essential provision that promotes apiculture and, of course, for us, it is important for Corfu. I close with the provision concerning the possibility of unemployed people working in agriculture while being able to receive their unemployment benefit. This is crucial, because in areas, for example the Ionian Islands, Corfu, where the major workforce is engaged in tourism and has only six months to deal with, may well be when the unemployed get his benefit to deal with the olive industry. Ladies and gentlemen, 50% of Corfu olive grove is unexploited. So there is a possibility here and we have a threefold gain: firstly, the unemployed will get an extra income, secondly, agricultural businesses will have hands, so they will end seasonal work faster and, of course, the national economy is the third. For all these reasons, I believe that this bill is absolutely in the positive direction, I congratulate the Minister and his staff, and I call on you all to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Gika. Please, because you know the difficulties of this House, of keeping the seven-minute period and don't forget that we have a debate tomorrow on the articles, so we don't have to get a specific article today. Of course you have the right to speak of an article, but today is the debate at the outset. Mr. Boobas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Minister, I welcome you to this project, with which we definitely want to upgrade the primary sector. I read it, I read it again. 2021-2027. CFP. The new common agricultural policy - before the koruna - will now change some things - is investing in the HORIZON EUROPE programme, green development, vulnerable groups and all that. But what is of great importance is agriculture. I don't know how ready we are to overcome some obstacles, red tapes of the past. The audit and the fines you say about the illegal Greekisms are in agreement with us. Besides, as a Greek Solution, we have always been shouting for too long and the President, Kyriakos Velopoulos, for the illegal products that come and do not put any duties while we can do so. I'll be positioned as far as I can telegraph. There are too many issues and I will try to manage my time as best I can. Minister, at the IMPs Agency you are applying an old HQ of 4456/2017 in terms of recruitment of staff, whether fixed or unlimited, with the agreement of the Ministry, with the agreement of the Decentralised Region and, of course, the general meeting of the IMP. And he says to the Ottas, with the agreement of the municipal councils, but also of the Ottas. I know that in the past there have been problems with the IMPs. It's still with the earthy infrastructure. Strymona crosses - neighbor is Ms. Arabatzi, knows -, Aliakmonus, Louis, Spearius, Aostos, Nestos, Evros and we water with carrots. We as a Greek Solution what have we said? Reasoned water management, national water agency. Israel has done so with dry land of over 60%, with dams on the Jordan River, with war on Golan's Heights, and today it has the so-called pastors. Can we talk about a resurgence of the agricultural sector if we do not go, ladies and gentlemen, to reasoned water use? The stalks are watering in four centimeters. The charcoal has an eighty-mile perimeter and the water is swept from forty meters away. The surface of Thessaloniki Kambos is down. It is despair for farmers when they cross the river and cannot irrigate their fields. So a national body of water, as they did in Israel. Let's go a little to the fertiliser committee, this technical consultative committee on fertilisers. What about fertilisers? The fertilizer producer association comes out and says we're running. In order to submit a request to the Advisory Committee, a fertilizer to be classified as a national one, and it can have about the same nutrients as another characterised by it, it passes up to eight months and has the same agricultural value. And while they are asking for and agreeing with the reduction in membership, because they call for an old 2004 KLA, at any rate, 2579/21, but they say that every appeal we make for an administrative fine, for a check and for it to be examined in thirty days, not four months. I mean, bureaucracy in greatness! And we cannot speak, my Minister, and my Minister, here for a technical consultative committee on fertilisers, which meets three times a year. You know, fertiliser producers, as you speak of a 20% reduction, of two million two thousand fertilisers that we had consumed in 1992, were a subsidy then, half-three times, we found them with subsidies, has been reduced by the farmers themselves and fertilizer traders in the eight hundred thousand, without cooperatives and subsidies. I'm going to go quickly to the Beekeeping Registry. You know, two years ago, beeswax producers who are in despair and because of pollination - they are a key thing, without pollination there is no life, everyone knows it in terms of biology and life cycle - they had a problem with the olive pine pine pine. A beetle appeared from Calabria, southern Italy, two years ago, created huge problems. The problem, however, apart from the beekeeping identity, do we know what it is today for beekeepers? First of all, we are talking about subsidies to replace the hive. 70 euros are provided by the Bulgarians. This is where we gave them a final date by May 14th, and I don't know if everyone got there. But the big problem is mixing honey. It is what you put with the identification, with the brand name of products and checks and fines, but these strange mixes are made with sweeteners and are currently used in corn pastry. It is an issue that our Member, Mr Francois, has raised, and I expect an answer, because, furthermore, sweetener and pinewood, clover, thyme, etc. It's a good step to have at least one identity. We are going to aquaculture, which I have heard, and Mrs Arabaji has listened carefully to fishing. I'll only say one thing there. 70% of food in the coming years in terms of cigarettes, sea bass, yeast, goat, will be in aquaculture, and we have downgraded - and SYRIZA is responsible for this - fish science schools. The school's closed in New Engineering. In the Messolong, it was degraded, merged to the University of Patras and it was not accepted. So how can we talk about future fish farming, farming, when we do not create scientifically documented staff bases through schools? It's good to upgrade the TEIs from there, but you understand. For organic crops, I call on them to get into financial support for crucifix vegetable materials, figs, aromatic plants, kiwidi, lambs. Those aren't inside. We were giving some molecules - SYRIZA - for the cooperatives, but being biological, not conventional. Belgium has made a proposal for interest-free loans. We're waiting to see what happens. The duty-free oil, to remind you, was promised by Mr. Samaras from Mytilini in 2012 and has raised the cost of agricultural production seven times higher, because the budget also had a budget of 1.5 billion against 1.3 billion and went through a special code. What about duty-free oil? Is it still a Memorandum of Understanding? For the land workers, Minister, the door opens and Albanians come. I'm not saying it. You have discussed, you have come to a meeting with institutions, with Mr. Giannakakis, Mr. Halkidikis, have also created a union of nuclei fruits and pears, and they are waiting. They will be paid by producers, of course, for the coronary and transport tests. I'm going to close up with something very important and I want you to pay attention. There has been the Greek seed bank since 1981 which has been downgraded. I have carefully seen Mrs Fotini Mylonas' interview and says that we have fifteen thousand seeds in Greece that are unexploited and as an eye daughter we must use them rather than the Greek seed bank being degraded. And even there is the archipelago in Samos with four and a half thousand samples, just like Pelitis. So what do we do about it? Why is the seed bank down? I have served the association of agricultural cooperative Serres for a decade and the PASPEGES School and we have had a model spore centre. Kyriakos Velopoulos is vindicated. Darwin's flower or a dragon primola in Latin. Fifty thousand euros per kilo, 5,000 euros per acre. Why is he justified? Alexandros Kachrimanis, Peripheral of Epirus through ELGO "DIMITRA" will take these seeds from Metsovo, downloading them down to the Ioannina plateau to see if it thrives and goes into integrated systematic production and cultivation for the flower of Darwin that the Albanians steal from Grammos with 5,000 euros per acre. Here, then, is the Greek solution that speaks of aromatic plants. I give you the law on geothermality, where Turkey takes the lead. It needs to be changed, Mr Voridis and Mrs Arabatzis, to make the law on geothermality more flexible, to make use of greenhouses. The greenhouses for this old law that is not considered a renewable source of water, but a mining activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, too. Mr Koutsoubas has the floor from New Democracy, followed by Mrs Jackri by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u116	We'll start something, Minister, that I promised a colleague. You made a commitment, in your view, that beyond this bill there are others that will help to develop agricultural production, improve and improve the lives of the rural and livestock world. We expect them, because we must proceed, as we have discussed in private, in structures. It is now necessary for the government in this country to carry out this vision of a rural regeneration, with infrastructure, so that farmers and farmers can see a better day in fact. As far as the bill is concerned, I won't say much. I am not going to say much, because anyone who wants to be honest with himself, whether through this Chamber or outside of the Ethiopian citizen who is watching us, if he was kind enough to hear the substantial analysis of the Minister and the Minister in terms of the bill and the legal issues, but also about the contents, yes, I do not think he should have doubts about the need to vote in favour of this legislative initiative. And I call it a legislative initiative, Minister, because I insist that we proceed in areas. Indeed, this bill solves important technical and essential issues relating to the agricultural, livestock world, for the benefit of society and citizens. I am going to stand up in terms of two, three speeches made by my fellow Members, without actually getting into the matter, such as the Beekeeper Register. I will say about the meat shop school, which is an important cut and no one has been mentioned. It is an important part of our country, because many children work in meat shops or in such production sites, and we need this profession to do something for the better. I will of course stand by the introduction of the bachelor for the land workers, which is what all farmers expected and is an important initiative. I left for the last time the provision concerning livestock and grazing plans. I left it last to tell you this, Minister and Minister: I come from a livestock family. Farmers always get high. They work a lot. I know it from my father who was a farmer until 2010. He fought all his life and to study us etc., but we haven't done much for farmers. We haven't done much for milk. It is a good intervention to extend licences for reconstruction, but there are other issues relating to forests, with the infrastructure, which we need to look at with a different mind, with a different intelligence, to resolve them. At economic level, I can tell you - I have the courage to say - that the interventions, the proposals made by colleagues, are correct, such as the fact that no one should come to say that the wolf ate ten sheep to get the compensation or to have tax information. To be introduced as compensation, without needing, because many farmers in our region are being destroyed. I was on Ellicon the day before, and they were telling me about it or about the wild boars and the damage they suffer. So you have to look at it in the next bills and do whatever other interventions are to their benefit, because they have supported our state that was born since 1955. They supported the economy of Greece and built the first houses. They supported the national economy. I'm going to stand up for some thoughts. With regard to the provision of rural decay - I think you have said it at some point too - I am concerned that it should be included in the Criminal Code. I have the objection, if you will, in the sense that, on the one hand, we are voting on certain provisions for the dismantling of the court's court order and, on the other hand, as a philosophy, I agree because I live in a rural area and I know that there are other third-party offences and damages, especially in water management. Perhaps, if not entered into the Criminal Code, there should be as a penalty, because the passion - you know it as a lawyer better than me - is not only satisfied with the imposition of a penalty of even forty days or will be provided for imprisonment. It must be compensated. To go to court to claim 600 or 800 euros, it will, but with great difficulty. So you also need to see this by tomorrow, if we can change it for the better. I will close, Minister, with something we have discussed again at our last meeting. They are imposed at the expense of many, whether natural persons or legal persons, various charges on agricultural or livestock products, supposedly in return - I say, for example, ELOGAK - which offer nothing. In the end, we do not charge an undertaking importing ELGAK-based meat, sells it to the meat seller, but it is again burdened with the meat-slaughter and the meat-slaughter. I mean, in the end, the consumer pays it. So there are some such institutions, some such fees, which I think you have recognised, and, as you said, we must go to their abolition in the next bills. I shall refer to the latter, Mr Minister. We had an online conversation with Mr Christos Sarantini, with the youth of Boeotia, about what is a vision. And because I believe that you have visions and visions is the country's agricultural regeneration, our good colleague said that vision is not undetermined, something vague. The vision must have a certain time to take place. I would ask you to ask the Prime Minister, as we discussed it, and you said that it will be your proposal, that we proceed to major infrastructure projects on agricultural farming. It cannot be said, Minister, that I grew up and do not hide it in this Chamber - to see farmers, young children, water as they watered in 1950! But it is possible that we do not have closed irrigation channels, that we do not have a modern irrigation network, that is to say now that this is an opportunity from what we will be subsidised and subsidised and that we do not do such a big project - not just for the Copaid - infrastructure? Kopais needs it, and the rural world needs it, and every plain in the country needs it, farmers need it. I'll hang up with another one. I insist because I am given the opportunity - it is not about you - and I tell you that I do not accept it and until I leave this Chamber I will say that it cannot be the Agricultural University in Athens. The Agricultural University must be in Aliarto, near production, close to farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuba. Mrs. Jackri of SYRIZA has the floor, and then Mr. Kelles from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a bill, which, according to its authors, aims to set up a series of matters for the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, which are time-consuming and which prevent the implementation of its policies. However, in really reading this bill and at first glance, Mr Minister, I cannot justify that optimism. It is clear that this is a mosaic of amendments, which were forgotten in a drawer and which were withdrawn, to complete the necessary pages to link the bill we are debating today. It actually regulates many different and different issues, from the Agricultural Accounting Network, the Improvement Agencys Agency, the TEGEL Commission and fertilisers, grazing management plans. Instead, Minister, to incorporate in the background of the IACC the new OMNIBUS regulation on toweds that will increase and land - I am referring to pastures - you are looking to make it easier for the district managers. There are, of course, other matters of fishing competence, economics, veterinary matters and the question of Greekization. Minister, with regard to the incorporation of Regulation 625 of the European Union, I wonder whether you should adopt a more careful and more comprehensive approach to this issue instead of a 'first step', as you said, because the application of these provisions is compulsory. This is Union regulations, and because a lot has been said in this union to defend Greek products and to limit illegal Greekism - which is a very big issue - I think you should insist on the faithful and inappropriate implementation of the regulations passed by SYRIZA's governance. I am referring to the national measures for the milk sector, namely the compulsory indication of the country of origin and milk products, but mainly meat, to resolve this burning issue. You, of course, pre-formically tighten sanctions, and we know very well that fines and, above all, astronomicals are never collected. You referred to it yourself. Instead of strengthening this one and only one principle for the official controls provided for by Regulation 625 of the European Union, you are insisting on maintaining this multiplicity of controls and thus their ineffectiveness. In short, if anyone reads the draft law under discussion, it will be understood that it is a monument of bad and sloppy legislation. The many references to articles and paragraphs of other provisions not only make it difficult to read this bill, Minister, but also to understand it. Furthermore, with regard to the obligation to adopt secondary legislation without setting a certain deadline for this to happen, I think we all understand that if these joint ministerial decisions and ministerial decisions are not adopted in time, then most of the provisions of this bill will remain ineffective or become undone. The rural area, Mr Minister, and you are well aware of it, is characterised by years of problems which need to be solved. From your point of view, I do not know if you were aware of this, but you have certainly seen that this is a very important area. It keeps the Greek countryside alive, takes care of our food security, has kept GDP down from the high pressures it has received in previous years and has been working in this very large part of the country's workforce. In addition, it is a productive sector in which more than 2.5 billion Community funds are injected each year. The unscrupulous conditions that we are experiencing in the economy because of the crisis of the coronary pandemic have also had a negative impact on the agricultural sector. Apart from a fragmented management of the issue on your part, however, we have not yet seen an overall strategic plan, with detailed specificity of the measures to support the primary sector. In addition to the EUR 48 million which you have announced in support of flowers, fisheries and livestock, you keep fish. A further EUR 200 million is expected to be allocated to farmers as targeted direct payments, namely EUR 150 million from the state budget and more than EUR 50 million from the European Union. When do you intend to announce these assessments, to which you refer often, Minister, so that this aid can go to producers before the agricultural sector is completely collapsed? May I remind you of the additional problems caused by domestic livestock farming during the Easter period? Do you think that these EUR 23 million, otherwise EUR 4 per head of animal, is significant and sufficient support for this very important area of the national economy, livestock farming, which produces and contributes these very important products, such as milk, meat or yoghurt and feta that is a PDO product? Do you also know that, because of the measures which have necessarily been taken, most of the products already have problems? What about summer fruit and vegetables, most of all because of the vertical decline in tourism? You know very well that the first to be affected are the producers of these products. Minister, fines of around EUR 450 million have recently been repaid by the European Union, which had been submitted to the country because of the non-legal application of the pasture regulation. This money must go back to the agricultural sector directly to improve its competitiveness and you do nothing in this direction. As far as ELGA is concerned, we read in the newspapers about the inner-party conflict that has arisen and let me say that Mr Charakopoulos' intervention has further revived it despite demolition. You continue for your part to prefer this uncontrolled and non-documented entry of private companies, and the help of this public structure, which has contributed so much to the agricultural sector, is going on. Finally, I'd like you to tell us, what's your plan? Because I honestly do not see that private companies are so willing to enter the ELGA, in an area of insurance, that the risks are more common, and most importantly, because of the climate change that we are already experiencing. I would like you, Minister, to take advantage of the resources available and allocated by the European Union. We are still waiting for these famous proportionate studies, and where New Democracy MPs in Pella and Imathia have raised the farmers' minds that they are supposed to be offset by additional payments, compensation will be paid which only results, Minister, is that producers remain unpaid in the last payments because they have believed them and have not paid the tributes to ELGA. But we now read that the ELGA is working on scenarios vice versa, i.e. offsetting the balance of 35% of compensation, with future contributions. Minister, don't you think this affliction of rural areas should be stopped? What the rural world expects from you is for you to make immediate payments to the remaining 35% of compensation as a measure or a means of supporting their liquidity at this juncture, however, yesterday. We would also expect substantial initiatives to be taken with regard to excise duty on agricultural oil, as, on governance SYRIZA - ANEL after our exit from the Memorandum, this regulation has returned to the 2019 budget. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like some time, as all the previous speakers have done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u119	Just a minute, Mrs. Jackie.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u120	Minister, I would like to take note of an important issue concerning the proliferation of Greek products which are experiencing problems and I refer to the opening up of the Russian market to them. You did nothing to do despite the fact that I also asked you about the partial lifting of the Russian embargo to reopen this very important export destination for Greek products. Why did we not take advantage of this opening up of green routes to export products to Russia and even without duties? Why did you not take the initiative for our debate on this issue in the European Union? If this market does not open, the disposal problems will continue with a number of important Greek products and it is not only peaches, cherry or fruit and vegetables, but also citrus fruits, it is also the oranges that also have problems at their disposal. For the CFP of the next period, the negotiations are coming to an end and we are talking about EUR 17 billion, which can be invaded into the country over the next seven years. We do not know yet whether the budget will be maintained at the existing levels. How is this external call for aid evolving? All the Member States have taken initiatives either to increase profits or to reduce losses, and you do nothing in this direction. And not only do you not do anything, but we do not know how the European green agreement will affect the environmental dimension of the CFP, that is, what the strong environmental and climate criteria will be on the basis of which the Greek strategic plan will be assessed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u121	Ms. Jackie, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, everyone has had tolerance in their time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u123	You have too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u124	Despite the fact that time is running out, the Ministry of Rural Development is completely unrealistic about the strategic plan in which the aid from the CAP will be granted in the new period. The implementation of this new CFP operating model is very important because, through a well-structured and documented strategic plan, farmers will now be given values and direct payments, but also money for investments in the agricultural sector over 2.5 billion a year. You see. Minister, how many questions are there? On these issues, we had to turn our attention and focus both on the services of the Ministry of Rural Development and on political leadership and not on unnecessary bills, stitching amendments that solve nothing. We are at a critical crossroads and our decisions after so many monumental restrictions must be targeted and brave.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u125	Mrs. Jackie, thank you. We've reached nine and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u126	The SYRIZA has tabled a statement, and with this I shall conclude, Mr President, an updated programme on the agricultural sector as well. For example, as regards farmers who have two children and a net income of EUR 9 000 last year, what we are proposing is that EUR 3,200 be granted as emergency income and EUR 1,800 as aid on the basis of the average amount of aid per farm, i.e. about EUR 5 000 for an average farm. You give them an average of EUR 720 for livestock farms. I think some of our suggestions could have been accepted. I personally do not want to question your good will. I think you want to solve problems. However, problems are not solved by bills of doubtful efficiency like what we are discussing today. As I said, this area requires brave decisions. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, too, but you understand that it is easy and fair to tell me that I share. The point is that at 6 p.m. it is scheduled to meet a committee. If we don't finish at 6:00, we'll be done at 6:30. They have parliamentary representatives to speak and at least to speak to all parties. That's why Mrs. Konnakka talks right after that she couldn't do it this morning. This means practically that we are going to stop sometime. Minister, will you speak at the end?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u128	No, Mr. President. Tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u129	We must stop and vote at first. You understand that some people won't talk from those who are written and talk tomorrow. And I pointed out that today is the debate at first, tomorrow on the articles, but it does not remove the right to talk in general and tomorrow, as you now speak at first. In other words, we must be substantial. Mr. Kelles, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, with this draft law, the Ministry of Rural Development and Food will vote for a set of targeted arrangements, which solves time-consuming problems and implements the commitments of Mr Mitsotakis and the Government, giving a deep breath to the countryside world. First of all, I will begin with the issue of compensation for the farmers in Larissa, who were compensated for six years later. Of course I cannot thank the Minister for his interest and for the fact that the Prime Minister's promises in the agricultural world and in the livestock world, which keeps it upright, are being respected. As I said in committee, farmers do not want compensation. They want to replace the livestock lost due to bluetongue and by the mandate of the Ministry of Rural Development. They want to produce milk, they want to get back subsidies that have been lost for six years by the OPEKEPE. And all this under the sole responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development and not their own. We must not forget that for five years the SYRIZA government has been engaging them and the New Democracy Government has again come to restore them, to give them the right. Minister, for the first time they are being taken with decisive measures to address the chronic problem of our farmers and producers, which are illegal Greekisms. The word "Greekisations" in all the years I have been a MP. You are satisfied with a long-term request from the livestock world, that is, what the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, promised in the election again, is now being carried out. The new law will impose heavy fines on those who make baptisms and speculate against farmers, deceiving the Greek state and consumers. In addition, a new provision is introduced for those who do not comply with the country of origin marking, such as misleading markings, etc. and the use of indications of protected designation of origin PDO or PGI or PSP where fines are now provided for up to EUR 300,000 from EUR 500 that were and which will reach the suspension of operation of the undertaking or the removal of authorisation of the undertaking. Further for our livestock farmers the bill includes another important regulation, compared with livestock facilities. In particular, it is foreseen that any livestock establishments operating in or near residential areas and if they wish to continue operating are obliged to submit a request to the DRL, a rural economy and veterinary administration by 31 December 2020. By that date, the administrative acts adopted, but not executed and order the closure, expulsion, demolition and imposition of a fine, shall be suspended. Very important and a sample of culture are the arrangements for the National Dead Animal Collection and Management Programme, the EMAS, with a view to the regions entrusting the implementation of collection programmes for the management of dead animals to bodies providing corresponding services, and these programmes to be included in the EMAS, the financing of which is set at an annual fee from each holding of the country for the collection and management of dead animals. Very positive, Mr Minister, is the provision for upgrading the operating conditions of the meat schools, which are sure to help young children who decide to practice this profession. Article 30. There is a solution to a major problem facing the rural world, the lack of workers' hands. Under Article 30, unemployment benefit is converted into a work allowance, seasonal employment is strengthened, enabling those who wish to work in agricultural work to maintain their unemployment benefit. At the same time, pensioners are also able to work in the field - and that was very right - and so we have an integrated intervention for land cultivation and rural support. Article 9. This is a very important initiative for the National Apiculture Register and for the apiculture identity, where this bill makes a new framework for apiculture that is estimated to contribute to the further development of our country's particular sector. We all know that the Greek nature produces a unique honey, which can be channelled into export destinations, as was the case with the towers of the tower and as happened with the garlic of Platykambou. In any case, in addition to the support of our farmers and farmers, the bill contains other provisions that are going to enhance the effectiveness of rural governance. I am referring, of course, to the extension of the Ministry's Strategic Planning Council, the complete transfer of powers to the municipalities for improvement projects, the final responsibility for the preparation of management plans for grazing by the Ministry of Rural Development. When the regions cannot implement them, then the Ministry of Rural Development will implement them. And grazing plans, for those we know from stockfarming, are very important. Finally, Minister, will you tell us a date, a time limit for farmers who have lost their money on Easter days, which was very cheap? Because even though the price on the market was too high, it didn't pass a single cent of these farmers. You promised to strengthen them, too. Suppose the next few days? Say it, it's not bad, you're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u131	Maybe today too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u132	Before I close, I should like to say two words about what has been so much heard in the committee both these days and today about ELGA. I heard the opposition talking about bilingualism. I don't see bilingualism. The insurance in the ELGA is compulsory and remains compulsory. The issue is the ELGA regulation on primary and secondary causes. See what happened last year in the Municipality of Tempus with almonds, where they suffered 100% destruction, with the confession of ELGA. They got de minimis 80 euros the acre. 80 euros are not for good, nor for a gift. Or what happened a month ago, in March, with the cherries with the cherries in Agia and the pears in the Tyrnavos region. Everyone agrees that there has been a frost, and the farmers and ELGA, but is the debate beginning on the fruits, were they in flowering, is it from the frost or is it because of the frost? Because if it is consistent, the ELGA does not compensate because the cause is secondary. This is how farmers start: "Let's go to Mrs. Arabatzis to give us de minimis, to go to Mr. Skreka to give us PSEA, to go to Mr. Vorides to get..." I've been a doctor for twenty-five years, and in the last few years I've been a MP I've been a doctor in agriculture. What happens every time it doesn't exist. And we are a rural and fodder area. This draft law forms a new reality for the primary sector in a comprehensive manner without many words and dashing provisions. Our Government removes the obstacles and ensures that our farmers and farmers work more safely with the Ministry of Rural Development in practice and on a lasting basis on their side. That is why we are voting in favour of this bill. Along with the world of the countryside we have strong foundations for the development of the rural economy. Minister, a word before I close. The big issue of the afforestation of the lands that is an extinction of entire villages, the Great Eleftheroti - I will say it again and let me become tiring - St. Antony in Farsala, where these people are causing your legal knowledge and your legal skills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr. Kelles. However, my doctor, knowing something from aggression is always the best basis, because she will never starve. Mrs Konnakas has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece and then Mr Sarakiotis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is right to wonder that the custodial title of the draft law on the upgrading and development of the agricultural sector goes hand in hand with its content and much more with the situation of small and medium-sized farmers today. Do you mean returning state aid granted up to 20 years ago to associations of agricultural cooperatives because of their non-approval by the European Union, giving the gift to those cooperatives who are still standing? You know very well that, whatever you expect of the gradual payment, it is impossible to respond, as is the case with other fragmentary provisions which do not correspond to the real needs of the services, as in the case of ELGA, which is seen in the case of the ELGA, and which, while it is known, is seriously understood to geoponics, veterinary surgeons and other specialities necessary for the immediate and timely diagnosis and compensation of farmers from the disasters of plant and animal capital, you are finally considering the recruitment of two legal systems. Not to speed up the compensation procedure, but to respond to the legal instruments used by farmers to find their point. The problem, of course, is not confined to subsistence, but also to the legal framework itself which does not allow compensation for many of the cases of destruction of plant and animal capital, such as the recent damage suffered by olive blooms due to the premature heat which also leads to a catastrophic destruction of production. What are you talking about in this case? That the current legal framework does not compensate for failure to land. Change the legal framework in order to be able to really protect the oil production that for the third year is at the risk of its overall destruction. However, even in cases where farmers, for example, are compensated, this is limited to a minimum price for each animal, which does not, of course, cover the loss of income that the total destruction of the herd means as a production unit. In other words, it does not cover overall the loss of milk, meat and reproduction that would have been of any disease within this time. Over two years they waited for the people affected to be compensated for by the blessings of Lesbos farmers. In fact, SYRIZA has made them build a club to compensate for them faster to finally get those who took 80 euros per animal, without covering the loss of production or support for reconstituting their herd all these years. It remains the problematic legislative framework which does not allow compensation to 100% of the destruction of production. Even subsistence of the Ministry's services, which are essential for the control of production, have a direct impact on farmers' production, thus also on farmers' incomes. We have had the last days of complaints from cow farmers in Lesvos at our meeting with the Agricultural Association of Mantamans and the Federation of Agricultural Associations that they are much delaying the results of the tests on samples taken for older bovine encephalopathy, more than thirty months old, and thus remaining the animal in the slaughterhouse for many days and making it difficult to absorb meat on the market. This leads many of these animals to the destruction, thus giving a head start to imported calves. And this delay was attributed on the Ministry's side to reduced service staff. Not only does the bill meet the chronic problems and needs of farmers, especially the improvement of productivity for a decent income that will keep them and make use of their land, but it does not even give the least breath that the rural world really expects to see to it to be supported by the consequences of the pandemic. Let me convey the agony, the despair in which farmers and farmers are literally in the Aegean islands, who were seen throughout the winter to go through the degrading prices of oil, as they were, of course, both in milk and meat, and saw their income entering quarantine once again, since the breath they expected to take with the sale of the lambs Easter was cut prematurely. Those of them who were able to sell well know that they had to give 3 or even 2.5 euros a kilo of lamb and those who refused to give in to the blackmails of the big merchants are at a dead end, because they can no longer make their production available. And for all this world, the government has not taken the slightest measure of support for the loss of their income. It is a challenge when for entrepreneurs a unique criterion has been introduced to support 20% reduction in profitability, then they and their workers are paid for both insurance and tax reductions and a number of aids. It is a great thing that your galantomy for businesses does not see it under any circumstances, of course, by farmers who have seen the honour of plundering and gaining on their backs once more, and they have no intention of supporting it. They put the problem on you, even the majority Members, to have a face to return to their provinces. We wait, we wait, but you're cooking too much. Of course, you may not consider this as an extraordinary loss of income, because for farmers, you see the normality of extorting and giving their products under the cost of production, which is why, over time, no government is taking any steps to prevent them from disturbing the free movement of the market. Others, of course, when it comes to aiding any airline there, all the state aid is permitted. Not even in this cumbersome emergency grant of EUR 800, you joined them, no measures to cover lost income. And much more so that the survival of this vital industry of production throughout the country also requires a combination of substantial support measures for small and medium-sized farmers, so that they do not remain locked on a permanent basis with the deadlocks of overcompensation and, finally, the abundance, which is the future for most of them, such as covering their insurance contributions by the State for the period of limitations, or even legislating for the immediate suspension of auctions and seizures, and any measure of forced collection for the public, banks, the ECJ, etc. The farmers are constantly asking for VAT on means and supplies to be abolished, such as the duty-free oil you give only to the shipowners. We would like to point out to the Government that it needs to take immediate action on the disasters caused by the floods in Lero over the last few days. All these measures are not in your direction to strengthen what could really be the steam engine of the Greek economy. What, then, are you talking about upgrading and improving agricultural production when your commitment to the common agricultural policy of the European Union which has put permanent tombstones in agricultural production, the same system that all of you are defending is what constitutes the most dangerous pandemic not only for the agricultural world, but also for all workers, for the whole of the people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, too. Mr Sarakiotis has the floor from SYRIZA, followed by Mr Lebanese, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a bill from the Ministry of Rural Development on the modernisation of the agricultural sector, as it is mentioned. I wonder how it is possible to achieve modernization when it is challengingly pursued without a strategy without any plan? I am not talking about a mistaken strategy presented by the current government, but about a total lack of it. There are provisions which are in the positive direction and we recognise. However, these are fragmentary and do not show the slightest coherence between them, so that the objectives you have set cannot in any way be implemented. You are tightening the sanctions for Greekism - and you are doing well - but that is done in name and only as you are weakening the control mechanisms at the same time. That's how you show your tactics. You advertise that the illegals will be severely punished and you receive the credit, but at the same time you close your eyes to the illegality by dismantling every control system, fragmenting the existing control services and completely inactivating the General Secretariat of Trade's GPA. You promise courts that will impose penalties without auditors, who will enforce the law. Because you have detested in your speech the SYRIZA Government's initiatives on the issue of Hellenism, I would like to remind you that the previous governance has been shut down for the first time for illegal practices. Micropolitical manoeuvres are the last ones the primary sector needs today in the midst of a pandemic of which is the significant reduction in agricultural income. Support for farmers, farmers and fishermen with 150 million euros, as you announced, obviously and does not respond to the real needs of the people in the primary sector, and it would be important to consider carefully the concrete and fully costly measures to strengthen the area through the "Meaning upright" programme submitted and presented by SYRIZA. While, Minister, we have tabled a set-up programme, which responds to the needs of the rural world, you are deceiving it and do not even bother to discuss it, despite the fact that you yourself, with the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, have sincerely stated that you are not aware of the subject. A key point in our programme and proposals, as you well know, has to do with the time to take the measures. Do you know, Minister, that in the Greek region over the last few years there have been massive transfers of livestock holdings? Many farmers are forced to sell their herds, as a shortage of demand mainly during the Easter period and the very low prices of their meat have led to an economic dead end. Many farmers, and that is why they are selling their farms, have failed to cover either their basic costs or the feed they spent in winter. I wonder when will you strengthen these people when all the herds of the Greek region have been sold? Because news is demanding thousands of our fellow citizens are calling for concrete answers, I would like to refer to the continuation of the operation of the people's markets in the presence of only 50% of the citizens. I cannot understand that in any area that makes sense. As far as health services are concerned, only 50% of the benches are realised that - and we have seen the images in the previous period - there is agglomeration in the benches that operate. So health is a failure. From there on - and we saw it mainly on the Athens people's markets in the previous period - there is a terrible increase in prices, as competition is falling, let alone until some time ago when producers and sellers in the region were banned from going to Athens, but there is also economic damage to all producers and sellers throughout the country. They open up the big mall where it is necessary to use the air conditioner and not open the people's markets to 100%, a decision without any logic, and these people expect an explanation. It may not be Mr Voridis' jurisdiction, but I imagine he is interested in all these producers. I wonder whether the Minister is aware of the problems faced by olive growers in the Kalamata variety for a very long time because of the unprecedentedly low prices of olive oil. Its production has been unreserved, unreserved in its warehouses for a long time, and unfortunately the relevant Ministry does not hear a word, they do not know what they will do. And it is not enough for the problems they have already had, in the midst of a pandemic, to modify the ELGA price list and impose an unprecedented 58% increase on the IAS. This is a very strange way of supporting and supporting olive growers. A third issue, which has not been answered by a question that I have tabled in the previous period and which concerns thousands of our fellow citizens in the region, has to do with the obstacles that have been introduced for the first time this year to take up, the inclusion in the programme of compensatory aid for those receiving aid which is characterised as a direct pension. It is mainly about elderly women who receive a widow's pension of EUR 50, 80, 100, and for this first time this year they cannot receive the exotic aid, which is the only way they can survive. The economy of the Greek region, as well as of Fthiotida, is mainly based on rural, livestock and fishing activities. That is why I call on you to take over the problems of the people of primary production before making them great promises to modernise the agricultural sector. In order to modernise something, you must first of all exist and you are driving in tune with all the professionals in the primary sector into the absolute decline, the definitive disappearance from the map of the country's economic activity. In the face of these people, who are the real backbone of Greek society and economy, I invite you to show interest and a sincere concern, at least equal to or equal to the one you show and demonstrate as government to your chosen friends of the major journalist groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u137	Thanks for the time, too. Now Mr. Tsavdaridis will speak from New Democracy and then Mr. Lebanese.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard from the Qualified Opposition that this bill does not help to formulate more general rural development policy and that it does not have a vision, that it is not innovative and that it does not solve the problems of producers. Air critics, for the price of opposition weapons as an agonizing attempt to cover the total indifference of SYRIZA to shield primary production and resolve the inflamed problems of our farmers and fishermen. You have now remembered the development of a rural development policy! Who? You, the one who made the taxation of farmers, raised their insurance contributions, launched production costs, sedated healthy agricultural entrepreneurship. You have now remembered vision and innovation! Who? You who have taken no interest in the absorption of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme, you who have made the inclusion in the programme of young farmers, the most productive part of our primary production. You have now remembered the problems of producers! Who? You who have been the ones who have been the major problem for four years. You with the populist taxis to all of the carts who disguised one by one on the way to your restoration. Now you are taking the role of Prefecture for a bill that houses the pending and time-consuming provisions that prevented the speed and importance of the Ministry of Rural Development, but above all a bill that finally stands up against lawlessness and shamefulness, eroding healthy competition, strangles the agricultural economy and relieves the added value of the emblematic products of the Greek land, such as the decisive treatment of the cancer of illegal Greeks, a constant demand and anguish of the people in the primary production sector, as well as our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The New Democracy is not going to allow the parties of Greekism, the uncovered mockery of the consumer, the great damage to the Greek economy and the pockets of consumers. We are not going to play at the expense of our producers, nor with their dignity, of course, nor with legality. The products of our country, our culture and our tradition are no longer a pretext for unfair competition. Checks are entering the front line. The value of the product is protected and further displayed. The added value is consolidated and multiplied. Because large and large trains do not come many times in thick titles, but in simple provisions of legislation, such as today, but with enormous value in the everyday life of farm animals and their prospects. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, all these are just a few of a long series of things that, in your dear argument, 'you would have done them, but you did not have time to do so'. But the New Democracy is getting ahead of it because it's working constantly, with a plan, with no time-consuming. And as long as we continue to work for the development of the primary sector, you continue to offer glorious moments of disinformation, with false news of supposedly privatisation of the ELGA that we are preparing. In fact, you say nothing about the tampering, namely whether or not our producers should be able to choose between competitive packages of agricultural insurance and the private sector. You don't say anything about the tampering because you just don't really care to go to the farmer's pocket, but to stay in your ideoleptic obsessions that fry sterile slogans, without any practical utility for the new era, which touches everyone but you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, too. I can't see Mr. Lebanese and Mr. Mulkiotis suddenly disappeared from me!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u140	Let's call him for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u141	We'll solve it, Mr. Kegeroglu. Let Mr Tagaras speak from New Democracy and then Mr Mulkiotis. Then, at some point, the parliamentary representatives will have them all spoken together. Here, Mr. Tagaras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u142	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the suggestions in the House, the comments and the criticisms of the new draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development, and I should like to refer to these comments for a moment. First and foremost, I would like to say that, on the occasion of and last test of the pandemic, where the need has emerged not to be dependent on aspects that contribute to the production of national income only from tourism, one of the important, large areas, which we must also for national reasons produce national income, is the primary sector. There is a need for institutional changes, but also for support for agricultural production and rural areas. I am pleased that, once again, the Ministry of Rural Development is coming to create mechanisms for modernisation, improvement and, at the same time, mechanisms that solve long-term wounds and'sins' of the past. I am pleased that, for one of the most important problems, which we have been discussing for years, the issue of the Greekization of products, the Greek products, with all the side effects and the costs that the producer and processor paid for, but also the consumer, begins - because we have a job ahead of us - to create a strict mechanism, first to be able to control and come at the same time to impose penalties. The penalties, starting from EUR 500 in the existing framework, are currently EUR 15,000. And the maximum of EUR 30,000 currently in force goes to EUR 80,000. And it escalates according to the species and with the national wealth of our products, for products of designation of origin, geographical indication products, as well as traditional specialities guaranteed, but also for organic products, which the penalties here are even greater. They start at 30,000 euros and reach 300,000 euros. And if the company's turnover is large, it's all 600,000 euros. We're not just standing on the fines. There are also prison sentences between two and five years. There are 'criminals' - in quotes - through the emergence and disclosure of the defendants or all those convicted who, following the prosecution's capacity and authorisation, are made public their name. Activities shall be revoked. Licences shall be revoked. It is a first substantial and important measure. There'll be more to follow. And we have work to do with a problem - and I say again - over time, which we have been discussing here for many decades in the Chamber, much more in the rural area and in agricultural production. We are heading in the same direction for the illegal Greekisation of eggs and through the single database there is the possibility of crossing data. And only with this possibility can we have the evidence, the material on which the proceedings of the penalties and of any others provided for in this bill will be initiated, and, of course, the egg production will be monitored throughout its development. We create the electronic National Beekeeping Register and the Atomic Apiculture Identity for all beekeepers. Through this we protect our quality and product as a national product, with its identities and peculiarities, stopping all actions of ingenuity, but also importing with baptism as Greek products, with all the side effects that apply. The legality of livestock establishments shall be extended at the time of the entry into force of Law 4056/2012, in or out of residential areas, by suspending administrative acts, penalties and fines. We protect the property of farmers and in terms of damage to farms, crops and damage to animals. Accelerate the functions of organised aquaculture development areas. We are speeding up procedures with regard to the implementation of security projects undertaken by the municipalities, as well as the possibility of financing operational needs and maintenance of facilities, beyond the Public Investment Programme and regional programmes. We are making the process of evaluating new types of fertilisers simpler and more stringent their conditions of circulation. Ladies and gentlemen, last title and two words: ENGA. A time-consumingly unacceptable situation. It must change and change considerably. They are not what crops and for what reasons they will only be compensated. It's about having a fund and money to be able to compensate. I know the design is under way. I will soon be happy to have a new law that will change the whole operation of ELGA, because we have paid as a society and as a farmer a great price. With these remarks, I think it is important to make the speeches. We have a continuous work to complete and expand, but we cannot say that this is an important moment for the Ministry of Rural Development, for the Minister and for the Minister, who is not currently in the Chamber. And we wait for their next moves. With these remarks, I am voting in favour of the bill and thank you very much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr. Tagaras. Now Mr. Mulkiotis will be speaking. Then there's Mr. Mamoulakis, Mr. Keletsis, Mr. Amanatidis, Mr. Papaliou. After Mr Papaliou the Parliamentary Representatives begin. In other words, Mr Lebanese, Mr Kegeroglu, Mrs Bakadima and Mr Arachovitis. At 18.00 p.m., wherever we have arrived, the vote will take place at first, so that the Chamber can then be prepared and at 18.30 p.m. to begin. So everyone else, in turn, will be transferred for tomorrow as the first speakers. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. I address you, Mr President, because I do not see anyone from the Ministry. Yesterday, first month, at this hour, intense rainfall and very intense quartz damage to about ten thousand acres in the areas of the Municipality of Thevia and the Municipality of Aliartos Thespion. Cereals, reptiles, lentils, onions, melons, cotton, vineyards suffered total - but total - destruction. The phenomenon we saw was to have snow, dense snow. That was the picture of the quarries. You realize the size of the damage. We are now calling for the immediate recording and assessment of damages, as well as for the immediate action to overcome the well-known bureaucratic obstacles and inconveniences of the ELGA which exist to pay compensation to the affected farmers, who are even more difficult than any other time. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the three largest global organisations, the UN Food Organisation, the World Trade Organisation and the World Health Organisation are hitting the risk of a smooth supply of food goods to the world's populations, as they see huge problems in the movement of goods at world level because of coronary and global trade. At the same time, according to PASPEGES report, Greece is unable to nourish the Greeks with exclusively its own food products, as it lacks the production of basic foods, such as meat, cereals, dairy, sugar and others in relation to consumption. Self-sufficiency in common wheat is 32%, in leguminous vegetables, 39%, in meat is about 56%, with a lower percentage of 30% in beef and the highest in sheep and goatmeat 54%. At the time that tens of thousands of farmers were found unprotected in front of the coronary pandemic, and this situation continues despite the lifting of the restrictive measures, the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food brings a bill to the House, which, according to the Minister responsible, "does not introduce anything new, is a bill that is in fact interventions on existing issues, but which resolves or regulates them differently". In other words, it brings the government to the vote a draft regulation which is not covered by any innovation or radical reform. What is the vision, what is the government's planning on the main issue of the development of the primary sector? Why I do not imagine that the only priority of the agricultural, livestock, fisheries and apiculture world is the Greecenisation of products, as it is announced and you want to be voted on and which is a semi-metre in substance. What do you have to tell us about borrowing with lower loans as working capital by using appropriately available financial instruments? What do you intend to do in relation to the proposal of the Change Movement for the immediate activation of the Farm Card? What about the debts to the insurance funds and the tax? Will there be a direct payment of compensation for 2019 and perhaps earlier, which are late? Will Community aid be made more rapid, so that by using advance payments farmers and farmers can secure the liquidity they need? How will the EUR 446 million returned to Greece be used by decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union to really strengthen the rural economy and extend the possibilities of rural activities and production by increasing grazing areas? Of what part of the state budget will farmers be subsidised, as you have announced that this category of farmers will be subsidized by state funds, while the remaining sectors will be financed by EUR 5 000 per farmer and EUR 50,000 per undertaking, as announced by state funds? Madam Minister, the agricultural sector is and becomes poorer every day. You have a great responsibility and you need to take serious initiatives, not to download bills that do not offer innovative solutions to the existing and existing problems of the country's primary sector. The pandemic of our krone has learned how vulnerable both the globalised economy and the unified Europe is to the dangers of public health. He showed us how quickly we can review everything in connection with the free movement of people and goods. Even if this pandemic is immediately overcome in the next few years, ladies and gentlemen, for reasons of public health, or because of environmental problems or climate change, I find it very likely that there will be restrictions on the movement of food goods if they are not accompanied by a number of certificates, which ensure the consumer is healthy and not harmful to his health. That is why we believe that initiatives must be: firstly, to make our country self-sufficient in all agri-food products. Secondly, they must have proven quality traceability from the producer up to consumption. Thirdly, be healthy and have high nutritional quality. Finally, fourthly, to strengthen export activity with high value-added agri-food products. In Boeotia, in my area, there are major problems that need to be addressed immediately. The place of Kopais, ladies and gentlemen, is an area with enormous development potential. Mr Mitsotakis, as Minister, abolished the then Kopais Agency twice for history - and today there is a simple management of the region within the framework of the Directorate for Rural Economy and Veterinary Affairs, without any worthwhile recovery and any integrated development plan for Kopais. For this reason, I would like to return from this position the proposal to set up a new body, the Organisation for Rural Development of Kopaidas, for the development and modernisation of agricultural development in the two hundred and twenty thousand acres with study and construction of rural networks. In the same context, it is considered necessary to draw up a study and then build up modern irrigation projects. It is also necessary to design new products and to plan for the restructuring of crops, as well as to design and exploit the potential of European funding. In addition, policies for the training of farmers must be developed in cooperation with Greek universities, as well as with European universities, in order to develop productivity and assimilate new techniques for the cultivation and production of products. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall make three brief points, Mr President, and I shall end up with them. It is crucial to create high-quality agri-food innovation zones, of high nutritional value and of guaranteed hygiene and quality, in which, on the basis of integrated design, the integration of innovation and of peak knowledge into agricultural products is implemented. The area of the capital of Athens can be a zone of agri-food innovation that covers all areas of the coopaic and extra-copic field and of the Thabian field. Secondly, it is crucial to create a modern market for vegetables with electronic auctions for agricultural products, with the necessary conditions of maintenance, standardisation and marketing. A strong structure could have been and be the creation of a market for vegetables and an auction for Central Greece based in Livadia, as already provided for in the Greece Central Greece spatial planning plan since 2018. And finally, it is crucial to create business centres for the innovation of agri-food enterprises, in cooperation with universities and businesses in Livadia and Thebe, in cooperation with the Institute for Agricultural Products of the Region founded in Aliarto. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that the Change Movement insists that if the necessary support measures are not taken in a timely manner, the recession will swept through the productive sector and widen the deadlock on which farmers, farmers, fishermen and beekeepers will find themselves. Our producers will remain unprotected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u145	Mr Mamulakis from SYRIZA followed by Mr Keletsis from New Democracy. I would ask you very much to keep time to speak as much as possible and to remain as few as possible for tomorrow. Mr. Mamulaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Before I place myself on this draft law, I too would like to express my bitterness, my displeasure at the absence of the majority of today's time of the Minister and the Deputy Minister. Of course, the State Secretary is still here, but I think her colleagues are presenting her in this way. It is an important bill for the agricultural world, which should be due to proper attention and to the prolonged presence, in our view, because beyond symbolism it is also governed by a substance. Today's bill is not in any way about the growing problems of the agricultural sector. This bill does not express any particular view regarding the right direction that the primary sector should have in our country. That would under different circumstances be something common. After all, Parliament has often legislated on minor issues and not a major one, which is, in any case, common and, in any case, within parliamentary morals. But, in the present circumstances, with the problems of the rural world actually being threatened by the echo of the pandemic, this attitude is really incomprehensible. The pandemic disturbed and disrupted the production chains in the agricultural sector in two different ways. During the Lockdown period we had import restrictions and stumbling blocks, and therefore an increase in the demand for domestic products such as cereals or livestock products in Easter. These pressures created inflationary tendencies in individual products, therefore, and issues that intensified the need for State intervention at the price level. The upcoming decline in tourist demand, particularly in areas with increased tourism product, such as Crete, is expected to exert opposing pressure on the primary sector. Many of the main products of Greek countryside, such as olive oil, will face an acute demand crisis, which will eventually affect the producers' ability to sell their products. I do not know what image the Minister has on the real situation in the primary sector of our country. I am not sure, however, that the voices of agony of farmers and farmers, for example from Malevisi, Pedia, Kastelli, Vianno, the Temenos, reach my office. It is the voices of the people of hardship who see not only their hardships but also their responsible minister to legislate as if the conditions prevailing in the Greek countryside do not concern him. We're not leveling anything. But we are highlighting the extremely unpopular nature of today's text. The bill, despite the lack of focus, contains positive provisions and we must point it out, such as the register for beekeepers, regulation for egg producers. However, if we had to identify the central desire of the legislator in this draft law, we could say that this is the strictness of penalties for products of origin. I think, however, that the main problem in the field of illegal Hellenism is not in the absence of heavy penalties, but the need for coordination and the uniform nature of the control system. There may be a real political consensus between the parties, the strengthening of the control mechanisms in our country. The imposition of stricter penalties - as it is attempting - is impossible to deal with. More effort is being made to make the image of the strict state that punishes offenders rather than helps to combat the phenomenon. The Minister told the committees last few days that this criticism we are making is also unjust. Also that it will directly bring in another legislative provision on the subject of controls. So tell us about this provision, gentlemen, of the Coupling, so that we can place ourselves in total for your project rather than every sub-paragraph. At the same time, however, the bill, and on other points, presented evidence of a plating hardening of the state, which we think serves communication purposes. In particular, there is a provision introduced for industrial cannabis. On the substance, it abolishes the tolerance imposed by the previous law. But in this way it creates a great precarious situation compared to those who have started to invest in this genuinely hopeful crop. The cultivation of industrial hemp is an answer to the questions raised by the need to diversify the production of the Greek primary sector. A response, unfortunately, is in line with the effects of climate change which, of course, has serious implications for Greek agriculture. The benefit of the cultivation of industrial cannabis for the national economy and the ecological balance of the Greek countryside is numerously certified by the scientific community itself. The plant has lower water requirements than the crops it comes to replace, while its total can be exploited. For the reason I mentioned, it is considered a privileged field of experimentation for the circular economy by the European Commission itself. The industrial cannabis creates a quasi-blooming field for Greek manufacturing in clothing, medicine and elsewhere, making it the most efficient cultivation with multiplier benefits for the entire national economy. But your treatment is particularly burdened and, let me say, poor. It is ideologically charged, because you are actually putting obstacles to its production to enhance your profile, that is, the profile of conservative law and order caretaker. And it's also wicked, because you're looking for a way to avoid appeals to the Council of State or the Supreme European Court if you were to ban the cultivation of the right. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen of the Association, Madam Secretary, this draft law is unreasonable and in a way offensive to our farmers. It gives no response to the crisis in the Greek countryside. But it does not give any prospect of the issue of nutritional safety, which pandemic has raised as the most important problem internationally for a multitude of economies and, of course, for our own. Here we are, of course, to discuss your answers and approaches to these burning issues when you naturally shape them with your own answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u147	I too, Mr. Mamulaki. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. I understand the anguish of counter-population to invent arguments of opposition tactics. But I find it very inconspicuous to call it inaccurate. He spoke about the absence of political leadership by his dear colleague. I would remind those who followed the bill that the presence of the Minister was uninterrupted throughout the debate that preceded the relevant Committee on Production and Trade. The Minister left a moment ago for a serious misdemeanor. Let me just say that the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development as of every ministry - and that is self-evident - is unequivocal and unequivocal. Therefore, your comments are likely to be paradoxical. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, too. To tell you exactly that for one minute it only happened - Mr Mulikiotis spoke - but immediately he was restored. Since there is one of the headlines of the ministry, the government is present. After the meetings we have had today, we will go up to Mr Burnus. I reread: It is Mr. Keletsis, Mr. Amanatidis, Mr. Papaelou, Mr. Lottomas, Mr. Ilhan Ahmet, Mr. Letonaridis and Mr. Burns. If any of them aren't, we'll go one below. Of course they are also the parliamentary representatives. So we're continuing with Mr. Keletsi. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by expressing my thanks to the Minister for Rural Development and, of course, to their colleagues, the Deputy Minister of Finance and the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Skylacakis, who, after many months of processes, meetings, contacts, consultations with us and all the representatives of the farmers of Evros, gave a solution to the great problem we received in July, namely compensation for the damages in 2018, which involved the cultivation of cotton and the destruction of green worms and the destruction of cereals in the same year. I have to say that, as far as cotton is concerned, there was a negative recommendation on the part of the services in order to obtain this compensation, which we had a great deal of pressure on the part of the Ministry of Rural Development. As far as cereals are concerned, there was no provision at all. But after July and after our presentation of the matter to the Ministry, it was understood that compensation should also be given in this area. And the Ministry did respond. I would therefore like to express my thanks to the Ministry's leadership. And I would like to ask, by presenting the Secretary-General, that the decisions - on speeding up the credit to the account of farmers of the corresponding amounts have of course been signed. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the conclusions of the pandemic crisis that we have spent some time ago, and of course we have not gone beyond it, was the revision of the priorities which we have to take as a political world from now on for the future. Of course one of the major priorities now is health. But our economy too should now be seen from another side. If something emerged as necessary after this test is the role of the primary sector of primary production in the economic and production chain, especially for our country, and the burden we must again bear on the primary sector, namely food production, namely agriculture and livestock, as well as in the processing of products, of course in modern form, naturally adapted to technological developments and export orientation, but ensuring the country's self-sufficiency. Naturally, in modern form, adapted to technological developments and export orientation, but ensuring the country's self-sufficiency. If something has been proved by this pandemic when trade relations with countries have now ceased because of the pandemic, it is every country's needs, the needs of its economy, the needs of demand and consumption that it should meet to a great extent. So, as a country, we need to revise our objectives, take advantage of the incredible opportunities that we have and our advantage, by producing quality agricultural products with an identity that will certainly have a demand abroad, but at the same time ensure internal self-sufficiency. It is, for example, unacceptable and, of course, due to the wrong choices of the past, the country was once not only self-sufficient in producing sugar, but has the potential for exporting sugar, and today it has a deficit and needs to import sugar from third countries. So all this needs to be done, so that we can give fresh impetus to primary production and the agricultural sector. To overcome the moves that need to be made first, the excessive bureaucracy that is often initiated by the European Union, but by ending in Greece it takes another and much more difficult and insurmountable form. We must allow easier access to the financing of agricultural holdings and we must use sources to date unexploited, such as geothermality, which can lead us to modern forms of agriculture with greenhouses, blooming and other products that we can produce. For example, in Evros there are two huge geothermal fields - only in Evros - one of which could produce electricity first of all - that of Traianopolis - and, at the same time, enable the creation of modern farms with greenhouses and the exploitation of hot water. The bill we are debating today actually opens up to all that I have mentioned. It is very important that it solves bureaucratic issues which have been coming back for years and which no one has touched until now. For example, the issue of livestock farming, namely the extension of the time-limit for the establishment of livestock units and the continued operation of units within or near residential areas, is very important. It is also important to approve the granting of aid to farmers for the losses of 2014-2015 by spongiform encephalopathy, irrespective of whether a laboratory examination has been carried out, but also to assume the responsibility of the Ministry itself for the preparation of the management plans for grazing. All this will help to develop livestock farming. I shall conclude, Mr President, with two proposals. It is also very important that offences such as fraud and misleading information on the origin of products are being severed and criminalised in some cases, and it is becoming much stricter - and this should be done - the context of these penalties. Finally, it is important to provide for the provision that has come with the amendment on seasonal work and the possibility for the unemployed to work seasonally in agricultural work without interrupting the unemployment benefit. Because it is really at this time of crisis that it is impossible to provide work for people outside the Greek workforce and not to allow unemployed people to have a low income without being deprived of the unemployment benefit. It is indeed a very important arrangement that the Ministry of Rural Development makes and shows that it has its ears openly the staff that is commanded by the Ministry to all the requests that we have from time to time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Amanatidis has the floor from New Democracy. Here comes Mr. Papaliou from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, because much has been said about the strategy, you will allow me to change my suggestion of speaking about the strategy from the outset. I will speak about a strategy, because the bill was found not to be a single text rather than a fragmentary one. What is our vision and to see if it is served by this bill. Our vision is a living countryside with mobility, with income, with work in an environment of quality of life. So that is what our vision is based on a strategy. The strategy, because it's easily called, but it's hard to prove by those who have different views, is captured. How's it going to be imprinted right now? It is currently reflected in the increase in resources in the improvement plans from 300 to 600 million, with farmers holding back and helping businesses to modernise. It is reflected in the support of rural entrepreneurship or entrepreneurship in the rural area with the supercommitments, which have been approved and given in order to develop manufacturing enterprises and in general craft businesses in Greece. It is reflected in the support of Greek products with anti-Greek measures, in the run-up to large-scale projects, and it is also reflected in the possibility for the agricultural sector that for the first time is part of programmes such as COVID -19 which is based on the PAENEC - for the first time, it is also possible for the agricultural sector to exploit it - but also with the Fund for Rural Entrepreneurship that will mobilise the rural economy at low cost. Here, then, the strategy exists and is unfolding in every step and step. This strategy is also reflected in the direct support given to farmers for the first time and for the first time very soon and in simpler procedures. But what is included in this draft law is indeed a strategy because they complement the framework on which the previous efforts are moving. In fact, if Parliament were allowed to take a crisis on what I am saying now, I would have been allowed to do. The bill was therefore described as a stirring-up of amendments with no added value, without a development perspective and so on. So it's important to see who's saying this. I would remind you that the left government taxed agricultural incomes as business, increased the insurance contributions to the OGA to more than three times, linked them to tax income, increased the price of agricultural electricity, and so on. Greek stockfarming has experienced difficulties, has continued to fall, the problems and sectors which are also supported by this draft law, such as fisheries, livestock and apiculture, have not received such attention. With this draft law, then, we are intervening in critical points so that it develops, supports the agricultural sector, which we all believe - and that is how it will - support the development of the country in the coming years along with other activities, but in practice we do not dare to take those measures and those decisions that will make it possible. In fact, they are interventions which regulate issues that were unsolved and highways, speed up, the development process in the Greek region. In particular, may I say in the form of questions: was it or was it not necessary to tighten up the institutional framework for illegal Greekisations? This is a chronic problem. The Prime Minister of the country had promised that the Ministry of Rural Development would solve it as well. In response to every provision, in every procedure and in every regulation, we move quickly in that direction. We therefore provide for administrative sanctions that are more stringent and also that we protect both producers and consumers and healthy trade. As you know, no specific strict framework for the protection of products of designation of origin, geographical indication, peculiarity and organic products was envisaged to date. From today, those who have been making good use of our valuable products, our country's precious products and our farmers, are threatened with strict administrative fines and criminal sanctions. Finally, the figures of the so-called Greek-Greek writers have not been made public to date. From today, by order of the competent prosecutor, information from those who have been convicted of such practices may be disclosed. Strongening the institutional framework was the first decisive step for the previous ones I have said. It follows a system of control which will supervise the strictness, which was the first step as I told you earlier. I would also like to ask another question. Was it or was it not strictly necessary for the National Beekeeping Registry? But it's the simple thing. The industry is being introduced, the industry is being recorded, we know what we have and we can make a strategy. That is why I say that this draft law includes strategic actions. Above all, however, it was something the industry was asking for. As you know, in order to do a strategy, one must also have tools. The tools of technology, IT and communications will be used to build the electronic beekeeping register and this is a section. The regulation for egg producers is very important. The regulation is also in place for the management of dead animals. It seems simple, not many times. But it's very important. The image of the dead animals being thrown into the ravines, in the absence of a management system, we think that it does not honor anyone. They were actions and provisions, which should also be implemented by the national programme for the collection and management of dead animals, which plays a role in the regions, in self-government, with resources, but which will be provided by farmers according to their livestock. For the first time, the amendment enables the unemployed to work in the agricultural sector is also very important, as is the regulation on improvements. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Mr President, to continue for a moment more and I apologise in advance. It is important, therefore, to regulate the improvement of the quality of works. We had many orphan works that were made and were in "lethargy" were not exploited. Finally, moves are being made in this direction. We also have an extension of the possibility of applying for the legalisation of the stack facilities within or next to settlements. It is also very important - and the emphasis has not been placed on me, which I expected those who are talking about strategy - the enlargement of the Strategic Planning Council. The Strategic Planning Council is now taking part, too, which are decisive factors. Who? They shall be the chairmen of the supervising bodies and the heads of the managing authorities. They manage the rural development programme, and so far it has been outside what we say we have to have as a strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality is - and I know that as a farmer - that farmers and farmers have many problems. Obviously, this bill doesn't solve everything. But it is confronted with distortions, it gives the slogan, it is a sign of changes that will also follow. I mean, a change like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u153	Mr Amanatidis, you have spent a lot of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u154	Such a change I think it will be the ELGA compensation regulation. I'm closing, Mr. President. The important thing is that this government is struggling with problems every day and highlighting solutions. We've taken for granted, and we've already resolved important issues. Our aim is to develop the economy, and in this direction we move daily, and we have a daily concern. That is why I call on you to vote in favour of the draft law, not formally, and I do not call on you, because I am a member of the New Democracy, but because I believe that this draft law is an attempt and a section that complements what I have said, the strategy in the previous part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Papaliou will now be given the floor from SYRIZA, and then Mr. Loading from New Democracy. Mr. Papaliou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that for many years the agricultural sector has been facing serious problems, structural and economic. The income of farmers and farmers is dramatically reduced, the selling price of many agricultural and livestock products is shaped below production costs and collapses. For example, I mention the price of olive oil and milk. This, in fact, for certain areas of my own country in my constituency, such as Kynuria and Gortynia, and not only in Arcadia, is absolutely disastrous, since the cultivation, manufacture and disposal of these products are the only source of income for the inhabitants of these regions. Producers are weak in the politics, pressures and blackmails of large businesses that control retail trade and distribution. In this negative environment, pandemic was invented due to coronary. Amidst the severe health and the consequent economic crisis, which has a serious impact on primary production, a draft law entitled 'Strengthening and modernising the agricultural sector' comes to the vote. It is a title that does not correspond to its content. The Minister himself confessed. The government's announcement that all the free professionals and the self-employed would be the recipient of the benefits that the government would decide to support the Greek economy during the health crisis, for farmers and farmers, was a vacant declaration, after leaving out of the aided activities of farmers, farmers, beekeepers, fishermen, who were affected by the health crisis at the heart of their activity. It is an exception, an unfair exclusion, because they are engaged in activities which cannot be interrupted and which, due to the prohibition of movement and the restriction or interruption of the general economic activity, could not be attributed. During the health crisis, you have also created a further problem and you are maintaining it by imposing restrictions on the people's markets, which affect farmers - people' s law enforcement, but also by banning their movement from region to region, which, of course, came next. While the primary sector is facing great difficulties and stumbling it up, the government with this draft law has not provided substantial support for it. Instead, its diffuse provisions attempt to solve technically bureaucratic and some essential problems, but do not constitute an upgrading and modernisation of the agricultural sector. For example, with regard to the provisions of the Greek legislation, stricter penalties are provided for and increased fines for offenders. However, food fraud is approached in a controversial way and, in addition, the problem of more intensive and effective control is not solved in order to identify the offenders. I now come to the ELGA regulation. It is obsolete and has not been adapted to the new requirements of the time, which are linked to the impact of climate change. For example, high temperature damage to production is not compensated. In governance SYRIZA, in order to shield agricultural production against the new sources of risk, the change in the ELGA regulation was initiated by a proportionate study. This procedure did not go any further and, in our view, is linked to other thoughts about the future of the ELGA and about which specific explicit references have been made by fellow Members of the New Democracy. I would also like to point out that for the recruitment of geopsies to the ELGA, which are necessary for its operation, the twelve-month period has elapsed from the Ministry of Interior's decision. Until then, only thirty-four geopsies had been hired from the hundreds of forty provided for in the Ministry of Interior decision and no legislative provision was made to recruit the others. In return, it is absolutely essential for the functioning of the ELGA to create two positions of lawyers with a leased mandate provided for in the draft law. Gentlemen of the government, you despise ELGA, a public body that supports farmers' incomes with a thousand and two problems when this is affected by weather phenomena, but that is your policy to speed up the entry to it of private insurance companies or the parallel operation of private insurance companies, as Members of the New Democracy have said. However, we are frightened by the Minister's statement that you are preparing a proposal for the ELGA. Unfortunately, I take it as a threat. In three areas of the primary sector I wanted to mention - I do not have time - which are important for the Greek economy, for the Greek province and for maintaining life in the countryside. It's the olive-growing, the viticulture and the livestock farming. I would just like to say that our place is inextricably tied to the olive tree, whose cultivation depends on the preservation of life in the countryside and social cohesion. We have proposed specific aid for olive cultivation, due to a drop in demand and prices, of EUR 120 million, a problem which preceded the pandemic, and additional assistance from the Competition Committees, the activation of promoters of Greek oil interests, aid for enterprises through programmes to standardise innovative outward-looking actions and low-rate loans, as well as - and above all - aid for olive production by de minimis to restore damage caused by adverse phenomena without risking to be classified as illegal State aid. Unfortunately, the NW Government is deaf because its view is that it is all a matter of buying, offering and demand. As far as wine is concerned, a specific wine distillation plan is proposed with the aid of EUR 30 million from the co-financed wine programme for the change in use of the stocks in order to enable the production of the wine sector to be absorbed during this growing season. As regards livestock farming, it is proposed to support farmers for loss of income due to the low sales prices of lamb plants and other livestock production. For all these crops and for their respective producers a number of measures are proposed which are extremely important for their survival. Ladies and gentlemen, we all support the primary sector and believe that agriculture and livestock will be the key tool for the recovery of the Greek economy and the country's productive reconstruction. It is a question of meaning and conducting policies in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Loading from New Democracy follows Mr. Ilhan Ahmet from the Change Movement. Please, the Parliamentary Representatives, all four, consult each other on the order of business, otherwise you will speak in the parliamentary order, i.e. starting with the latter. I'm telling you this so you know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u158	Will we have time, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u159	You'll catch up. We will not cut off the parliamentary representatives, but I tell you to consult each other, because strange things are happening, i.e. I call on someone and then I lose him. Here, Mr. Loading, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, this bill solves years of problems and with the innovations it introduces will be an important development tool for our country. With the aim of increasing the share of agricultural production in the Gross National Product, this bill comes to resolve issues that hamper the development of the rural economy and which have been lagging behind for years. Questions that make progress difficult in areas where our country can not only evolve but also play a leading role in Europe. All the provisions introduced by this bill, ladies and gentlemen, concern in practical terms all areas of responsibility of the Ministry and are either amendments to the provisions which exist in various legislations or new innovative ones that open the way to an integrated, I would say, national strategy. I will begin with Chapter G, which concerns the stricter application of the legal framework for illegal Greekizations and mimicism phenomena. The current fragmentary and enforceable sanctions have led to the damage of producers and consumers and, by extension, of the public economy and health. The Government's desire to overthrow illegally trapped tactics is stated by effective controls, particularly severe penalties and the great fines that are being introduced, which characterise the entire effort as brave. It is also particularly important that the amendment, which enables occasional workers in various agricultural work to receive an allowance from the OAED, so that there are no shortages of workers during seasonal work. As a Member of the Cyclades, however, I should like to emphasise, firstly, the operation of the electronic beekeeping register and the establishment of an individual beekeeping identity system, that is to say, a single registration, inventory and identification system, which will allow, firstly, the protection of our national product, secondly, full transparency and support for a sector that has not been integrated into a framework, which has so far led to a lack of support and control, I would say. An example of support is the simplification of the procedures for the participation of beekeepers in various economic aid programmes or for the payment of compensation and development programmes. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the presidential seat.]] As far as livestock is concerned, this draft law allows, inter alia, the submission of an application for the legalisation of stack facilities. Secondly, the management of grazing plans is regulated. Thirdly, we are dealing with issues relating to rural disasters due to grazing. These provisions will enable each farmer not to benefit from the services and bad neighbours. As far as the fisheries sector is concerned, it is very important that Article 12 gives the possibility of increasing fishing times to a maximum of one year, where appropriate, and that the whole definition of the concept of fishing activity should be ensured. Additional prohibitions on the distance from the coast, the depth and the type of vessels to which they are authorised are underpinning elements of a national medium coastal fisheries strategy, which so far has not existed. At the same time, we have put in place provisions to get rid of the loop of the various fines which have been afflicting fishermen for years. Article 12 and paragraph 2 shall delete the administrative penalties for the removal of the authorisation of a professional fishing vessel imposed by 31/12/2014 in so far as the fines imposed have been paid. I congratulate the entire initiative and the State Secretary as well as the Minister as a whole and the Ministry's leadership. It restores the entire injustice suffered by hundreds of our fishermen, who because of a paradoxical and irrational way of calculating fines, have to pay up to nine times greater fines than others who had committed the same infringement. Unique criterion for the height was the duration of the service. Ladies and gentlemen, by summarising, we can see that this bill is run by the intention of speeding up, facilitating simplification and updating procedures. In this way, today's bill achieves its objective, namely to strengthen the primary sector and the Greek products, and also express the consistency of our own government's commitments. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, too. Good evening. Good week. Good month, too. The speaker has the floor, Mr. Ahmet Ilhan, from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the COVID 19 pandemic revealed to us how vulnerable the Greek economy is in the end when it insists on the monoculture of tourism, because we are talking about agricultural bills. At the same time, it gave us a little taste of future crises that humanity will be called upon to face, because of climate change, crises of extreme weather and natural disasters with consequences much more extensive and extensive over many years. It is not a recent publication of "NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC", which points out that Greece is in the 20th sixth place of the list with the aqueous test countries, which, combined with climate change, brings closer the risk of desertification for 30% of the country over the next few decades. In this context, I would expect a bill with even some elements of development intervention in the primary sector, which is clear that in the coming years it should have a leading role not only in the economic development of the country, but also in its shielding of future crises. But unfortunately, the rural world's belief in the total absence of political intervention on the problems of farmers and farmers is confirmed. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you are forcing me to come back to a subject known to you and you have been committed since September 2019 in this Chamber. What's that? In 2018, the drought conditions in Rhodope from March to June resulted in the destruction of all tobacco production by eighty 80% to 95%. To that end I have also tabled the conclusion of the Directorate for Rural Development Rhodope, which certifies it and legalizes it. Because the ELGA regulation does not provide for compensation for viruses and diseases, the first time the ELGA state services have said that it must be compensated by state funding, by the state financial aid budget, the known PSAs. But what happened? In February 2020, in reply to a timely question I had put before you, you, as a political leadership, committed the Ministry, Mr Vorides in particular, to 'the political will of the government' - I read Mr Voridis's words - 'is that we must base our producers' income on all regions and especially on our outermost regions with even greater sensitivity'. You said that a special scientific committee would be set up to substantiate scientific evidence that production of the year of damage should have been damaged by a type of product at a prefecture of 30% or more. You say that too, saying that this is the case and that this condition is fulfilled. But Rodopi's tobacco producers are now in absolute poverty and despair. They have in front of them a political leadership that fails to understand the needs of our times and strengthen their incomes, indebted to them for the total destruction of 2018 involving Rhodope and Thrace especially and not smoke throughout the country. I particularly emphasise this fact. I stress this because thanks to the tobacco producers in Rhodope, which I had damaged 80%, were compensated by the SYRIZA government by de minimis tobacco producers throughout the country. Today those who have really suffered the destruction of their production, that is, the Rhodes, are literally staying in the air. They were wronged, despite the existence of all the conditions and the actual damage. I repeat that it is a national cheque and a condition for the survival of tobacco producers in Thrace, their compensation. I would ask the same thing to happen for the Rhodope cotton producers who have remained out of compensation since 2018, when their Evros colleagues joined the compensation a few weeks ago. In Rhodope nothing. As you know, we are going through the tobacco sowing season, what we call ham and boards. What's that? Add stripes and place the plant before it is planted in the field. For the past week, we have had a huge mess. The messes also hit the hazelnuts, i.e. the boards. Of course, the ELGA Agency does not, unfortunately, cover the hails, the boards, the nurseries and the growing season is over. So, in other words, they can't grow. Another disaster! We are now calling on the Government and the Ministry to compensate another way for the loss of income with de minimis of this year's natural disaster. The same problem is for the cherry producers in our county because of hailing. I referred to the beginning of my speech on weather. Apart from the fact that they must be compensated by the ELGA, we must also find a programme of how there can be a real fight against hails, that is to say, protection in some way, with support from the European Union and other programmes, of course, from the Ministry of Rural Development. I want to close my speech by making a reference to farmers too. I appeal once again to the Ministry of Rural Development to support the income of farmers by works and not by words. In this context, I ask for the following. All colleagues have asked. We are also calling for a Change Movement, but personally as a Member of the Rhodope Prefecture. Firstly, I call for the inclusion of farmers in the SMRs supported by the sum of EUR 800. Secondly, a EUR 2 kilo of lamb carcasses in the pre- Easter period to cover the damage. Thirdly, reimbursement of the fines of EUR 279 million won by the European Court of Justice to farmers. It's their money. To return to the stockfarmers the 279 million. I am also asking for the immediate allocation of 50% of the single payment, now, not in October. This concerns not only farmers, but all farmers. Direct payments need to be paid now that they need to go sowing, because there is no money for people to grow their fields. We ask for the immediate allocation of 2013 and 2014 balancings and a freezing of all loan instalments to banks, tax and insurance funds for the duration of the crisis. Members of the Government, we in this bill we are discussing will vote in favour of it because it actually has positive means, both for beekeepers and for fighting Greekism and for retired people. However, this does not mean that these shortcomings do not exist or that they are tragic and the voice of the region's Rodopiers and farmers must be heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, too. Mr. Theophilus Lionides has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, "neither evil is good" was said by our ancient ancestors. After this great pandemic that has put all economic activity on ice, and after our country has dealt with the health situation in the best possible way - and this is a delightful way - we are now coming despite all the adverse conditions to relaunch the economy. The central planning of the government will now have a huge opportunity with the European Recovery Fund, where tens of billions of dollars will be allocated from the programme over time, not only to heal the wounds of the economy, but to transform our country into a new, modern, development plan. Part of the plan will be the rural economy, which, at the same time as the new common agricultural policy, will also have a new resource orientation from the recovery programme. We must not, ladies and gentlemen, lose this twofold opportunity which must be a tool for the development of the rural economy. The support of the Greek countryside goes through the development of a national strategy for rural development that ensures the possibility of population housing in the region and stimulates the return of young people from the large urban centres. This draft law regulates issues relating to imports and exports of plant products, the national apiculture register, controls on animal production, management plans for grazing, schools of meat trade, the national programme for the collection and management of dead animals and shelters for stray animals. Finally, it includes provisions on aquaculture, fisheries, to improve the functioning of the ELGA and the Agricultural Chamber. Because of the limited time, I will be content with some of the provisions. Holdings of livestock establishments located in or near residential areas shall be facilitated for their legalisation and shall be allowed the period necessary until 31 December 2020 to complete the procedure for issuing the authorisation to maintain such establishments, as several supporting documents are required for the issue of time-consuming procedures. The national electronic apiculture register shall be established and address digitally important issues that cause problems in the apiculture sector. And, of course, the procedures for the participation of beekeepers in financial aid or compensation programmes are simplified. Provision is made for the integration of the undertakings producing and marketing eggs for consumption in the single ARTEMIS database to achieve effective control of the traceability balance and treatment of unfair practices, and in particular of Greekisations. The procedures for the recognition of public or private schools and institutions in the country - meat professions - are simplified, and provisions concerning the education of meat dealers and editors are amended. At this point, Minister, I would like to remind you that I have asked you for the reopening of the School of Professions of Serres, which was set up under Dr. 107/2014. It began its operation in September 2014 at the premises of the Department of Agriculture Economy and ceased its operation on the Government of SYRIZA. The establishment of the school was considered necessary due to the increased number of candidates for meats and offspring and their inability to serve within a reasonable period of time from the school of Thessaloniki. In this way, we have significantly reduced the waiting time for the interested parties, who have been - and are - long - for over two years - given the increased demand for the carrots' profession. It is all our responsibility to support the countryside where its population is shrinking every day because of fleeing to the large urban centres and especially the border regions for the benefit of the agri-food sector by applying decentralisation policies. It is an opportunity today that we are discussing an article on schools of meat by amending the provisions of the procedure for the recognition of schools and on issues relating to the education of meat-and-breeders to rethink the subject and the School of Serres to function. But what is of enormous importance to producers and is the crown of the bill is the establishment of effective fight against persecution and punishment by means of administrative and criminal penalties of illegal behaviour concerning the misleading of consumers about the origin of foods, a practice which, in the common understanding of Greek producers, and also traders, has contributed to the growth of the phenomenon of illegal Hellenism, resulting in the damage of actual producers or processors of corresponding products and the misuse of the consumer. In addition, within the framework of the provisions, an amendment seeks to strengthen seasonal employment in agricultural work. Incentives are given to stay OGA pensioners in the field without reducing their pensions, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour of course. In addition, other pensioners are also allowed to remain in the profession and to engage in rural activity. Of course, the case of ovine and caprine aid has arisen, which I believe the Minister will give the most equitable solution after a dialogue with farmers' bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it is no accident - and you have noticed most of you - that most of the questions asked in this House are related to the compensation of farmers and farmers, because we need a complete reform of the outdated system of insurance with the modernization of institutional, operational and economic conditions with the widening of the risks covered and insured by the ELGA, in particular those relating to climate change and the digitisation of all procedures. This reform, which is necessary, can implement a realistic, economically viable and socially acceptable insurance system. Ladies and gentlemen, we have seen that the geostrategic upgrading of Greece to a significant international energy hub, rich thermal fields and renewable energy sources must be aggressive incentives for the use of natural gas, for the use of geothermality for low production costs, which is what is needed, but also for the addition of income to agricultural income. Modernising the existing irrigation networks, completing the adventive measures with ready-to-date studies launched and not progressed, reafforestations that have stopped or not started will create new conditions for the rural family and new conditions for the modern model of the professional farmer. Now is the opportunity for Greece to change orbit by reconstituting the rural economy on sound foundations and making effective use of the resources that will be influencing from the new Common Agricultural Policy and the Recovery Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, too. We will close the circle of speakers for today - with the help of God the rest tomorrow - with Mr. Ioannis Burnus from Lesvos and SYRIZA. Then the parliamentary representatives will follow those who want to speak. Mr. Burnus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u166	To start with, I would like to stress the concern of the olive growers in Lesvos and not only the damage to fruitfulness due to this terrible burning of the previous days and heavy rainfalls and the need for exceptional compensation to them, but also to the winegrowers, who have also suffered damages we have tabled to questions. Ladies and gentlemen, in this bill we would finally see the government's strategy for rural development unfolded, to address the structural problems of the rural economy, to modernise it and to increase its contribution to the country's Gross National Product. However, the only thing we find in your draft law is regulation of individual problems, without even taking care of topical issues arising out of the pandemic. Our belief is that in the areas of rural development we must be ambitious, have the sectors of the rural economy at the heart of a long-term development strategy and work to increase the contribution of the rural economy to the GDP of the country. In other words, we must work on the welfare of farmers, farmers and fishermen, who are rural and well-being, the welfare of the islands and regions of the country. In view of the structural weaknesses in agricultural production, with the small size of units and the inability to cooperate and co-operate with producers, the State should ensure a guaranteed price for agricultural products. It should compensate, in other words, the producers' negotiators' negligence towards traders. And every long-term rural development strategy should stimulate, promote and facilitate a policy of cooperation and partnership between producers on the ground and by industry. Even if this increases the negotiating power of farmers, not only with regard to traders, but also with regard to the political system, or precisely for that reason. In fact, in the midst of such a difficult economic situation and with the removal of budgetary constraints, one would expect a relief move, such as the reimbursement of excise duty which had been abolished in the third memorandum and which, however, had been foreseen to bring it back to the 2019 budget immediately after the clear exit of our country from the Memorandum of Understanding. Nor is it planned to see aid measures such as changes to the payment dates of European aid to facilitate farmers who suffer the financial consequences of Lockdown earlier. We would also like to see the Ministry intervene with Mr Brutsi in order to make his impressive and inexpensive announcement of electronic and rapid awarding of the pensions of the farmers of the old OGA. It is not just an area that we are hearing about modernisation of procedures and digitisations, but we are unfortunately seeing even greater delays. Nor do we see a spirit of modernization and upgrading to provisions for the concentration of responsibilities in the person of the Minister and their removal from the regions. You are doing so with Article 2 on the transfer to the municipalities of the administrative and operational powers of permanent improvements, and in particular Article 11 on grazing plans. Swallow it properly with the fertiliser technical committees, but you do not dare to drastically reduce the number of members to make them more flexible and effective, nor to shorten and simplify the procedure for the opinion and approval of fertilisers, which is a key issue in modernising Greek agriculture. In the article on unauthorised livestock establishments, which is Article 8, you are again proposing to continue the prolongation of the extensions to the production of permits, rather than to use the new permit plan prepared by the previous political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development. It is not the time that is lacking, it is the inability to gather the supporting documents required by the existing licensing framework. In Article 12 on fisheries arrangements, we would expect some provision to support fishermen, as half of them, 50%, did not receive any exceptional allowance. I would like to point out to you, following protests by fishermen, by Lemnos and Lesvos, that the joint ownership of vessels is excluded from any aid. When do you think it is time to be interested in supporting fishermen? I would like to raise a particularly important issue here for the island of Lesvos and its fishermen. It is planned to place aquaculture in various regions of the country, including Lesvos. I really hope that, in echoing what the fishermen's association tells us, it does not involve this bay of Calloni and its very special ecosystem. Our government had suspended the issue of empty aquaculture units in the Gulf of Calloni, and we hope that will not change that. Returning to the bill, despite the inclusion of an article on apiculture and the creation of an electronic register in accordance with European legislation, you do not propose anything about a leading problem in the industry, the protection of Greek honey from unfair Greekism and cheap imports from third countries. At the very least, we need to draw up and legislate a strict labelling framework and at the level of the European Union for compulsory labelling of a harvest country. Finally, you are suppressing the industrial and pharmaceutical cannabis sector, under Articles 5 and 7, a productive sector which has essentially been established by the previous government and has a bright perspective to develop into one of the most dynamic for our rural economy. What have you done there? You have delayed unnecessarily the signature of approvals for the establishment of processing units for the final processing of cannabis medicinal products. You do not offer any substantial adaptations to one in any other way of a new legislative framework and you do not further simplify the authorisation procedure. The signals given by investors are not at all encouraging. And here we are talking about a sector that was enthusiasticly dealt with by very large foreign companies who came to invest in our country. Especially in industrial cannabis growers, you are punishing them - to say it on your side too, you are always with the market - anti-business legislation to destroy crops that are even slightly above 0,2 THC content. Instead of encouraging investors, terrorizing them and prosecuting them, while finding investment files ready for the Ministry when you took over. Unfortunately, a sector that has been in existence for years in European and other advanced countries, and the European Union has also given us tools to strengthen it, will fall victim to your strong idealism and the overconservative obsessions of your audience. It is not the investors of pharmaceutical and industrial cannabis for the make news that you were spreading at the time you were opposition. A future progressive government would take advantage of the climate and soil conditions prevailing in Greece to encourage the expansion of the crops of industrial cannabis, as Italy does and would authorise units to produce CBD extracts. With all this, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, who have no roads to the future, nor are any urgent problems to be solved today, it is worth seeing the upgrading and modernisation of the agricultural sector, which you have put into the title of the bill. In the very difficult near future, unfortunately, neither the productive world of the countryside will be excluded from the consequences of a government that manages, serves friends and prepares violent restructuring in favour of the great interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u167	Thank you very much. Although the ladies are ahead of me, I was asked first by Mr Lebanon from the New Democracy, the Parliamentary Representative, and then to take it backwards, if all the parliamentary representatives agree. Parliamentary spokesman from New Democracy, Mr Spilios Lebanese, therefore has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u168	Allow me, Mr President, to begin by saying goodbye to this step on the part of the New Democracy, our parliamentary group, but also personally, a great Greek woman who left life, Amalia Melanou. He was a woman of the spirit, an excellent man, an important writer, a really fighter woman. While she was never directly involved in politics, she was personally averted, she taught political morality in her course. Although she was a niece of Panagiotis Kanellepoulou and wife for some time of Constantine Karamanlis, she never spoke of her personal life, she never spoke of these two great people. At a time when the private is so involved with the public for ninety - one years she has spoken with her silence and spiritual work. She was a great Greek woman and I thank her for the deposit, as well as her advice. Some answers now I want to give some of the things that have been heard from a general policy outside of the bill. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that Greece, the government, has one single policy, not only the government, but also the country as a whole. Any provocation and aggression currently being exercised by the neighbour will never lure us into competition policy. We do not define our policy, we stand independently and, as we have shown to Evros, with high determination, with national self-confidence, we will do everything we can to defend every inch of the country, of course, and always - and I wonder how you do not understand it - within the framework of International Law and the law of the sea. However, no one misinterprets within the Greek political scene or outside it the power of seriousness and moderateness. The red lines are specific and we will defend them in every way at all times. As far as the fence is concerned, I think the government's position is clear. We build him, we support him, we consider it necessary, and we obviously do not want to have any other routes, except those provided for by international law, which are our official borders. As far as the events in America and their connection to Greece's data are concerned, we are obviously condemning the violence from wherever it comes, the violence in the streets, of course, the violence in the banks, the violence wherever it exists. But, dear friends and friends, violence, racism and other divisions are being attempted by some. America is obviously being shaken today with the great unemployment that exists from a obviously wrong COVID strategy. But - and I have not heard anything about this in this Chamber from anyone - the same is not happening in Europe, because Europe has been better placed and obviously Greece. But let us all remember together and let us not divide into what Martin Luther said: "The important thing is to fight as well the middle peaceful order..." - practically that said - "...for justice". This spirit follows us, too, and the Government of the Lord Mitsotakis follows. We want and build a society with rule of law and security for the citizens in the city, in the village, for the citizens everywhere and with the same democratic measure, which, in my opinion, was mentioned earlier, by Mr Zachariadis, the SYRIZA MEP. We want to have the same thing here in Greece, as well, security, justice, the rule of law and the issues that concern farmers. So security and justice in both feta and Hellenism is what has been explained to you, ladies and gentlemen, and the Minister for Rural Development before, and I would invite you not to confuse yourself in these matters and not to plunder you on these issues. Karathanasopoulos from the Communist Party was correctly placed for the need to modernise the irrigation systems throughout the country and especially in western Greece, from which he comes. Obviously, we agree with him. They are great works that need thought and planning to be done. Above all, however, we agree that we need a general debate and a more comprehensive plan for wider management, for the overall management of water resources in our country. In this context, Mr Boubas also has a right direction in his mind for a single water policy in our country. However, he did not say anything about the solutions given to the TWGs in Western Greece by this government, both to get the machines in front, to solve the problems that were experienced with PPC, and especially the long-term plan at the moment to become photovoltaic parks from the TWGs, so that the debts of PPC will gradually be repaid, that there will be autonomy and that we will eventually lead to what we all want, smart agriculture, by serving exactly what you say, ladies and gentlemen from the JRC, the small and medium-sized farmers, the man of the toil in the field. We, therefore, go ahead with works and not with words. He also talked about the decoupling of tobacco and said that the New Democracy party was lying to the citizens. That never happened. On the contrary, the Minister of Government Karamanlis, Mr. Near, convinced his farmers not to go ahead with the decoupling of tobacco. Today we see the mistakes made at the time, but the New Democracy has never dragged anyone into that direction. Others were the ones who had the wrong policies. Mr Boubas - and I think this is the right job to be done in Parliament, we must see what is right, and the government must also listen to them and incorporate them into its policy - has referred to the fish farm school in the Messolongis. It was a school that got graduates who were very helpful to a top sector of Greek production, farming, with mistakes from previous governments, not from today. This school has reduced all its data embedded in the University of Patras, has created problems for both the policy of previous years and the graduates and, above all, creates problems in the industry. Such issues must be managed by our Government, not by the Ministry of Rural Development of course, but I agree with him that they are necessary if we want to rebuild the country's productive model. The criticism made on the part of Officerial Response will allow me to say that it was inappropriate, lacking and basically with no arguments. I do not even see many Members coming to support this contradiction, and I honestly cannot understand why you do not vote, unless at the end of the day you vote, all the articles of this law because they are in the right direction. And some of your speakers on the SYRIZA side spent almost all year round their speeches with references to other bills, such as, for example, to the environment, criticising this bill. It is evident that either there is no criticism of this bill or there is a lack of it or, like when you were fugitive and left, today you are saying absent. If I am mistaken, we are also waiting for the next speakers tomorrow, in particular, for your party's position on issues such as what the ministers have mentioned, to see what you are going to do at the end of the day. In any case, when you say that you now want to come to the public debate with proposals, stand in these proposals, as other Members do - the government hears them and many of them incorporates them - but not only in critical terms. Two words for the bill. The passion and ostrich with which they defended themselves a few hours ago, from this Step, both Minister Vorides and the Deputy Minister, Mr Arabatzi, the bill that we are called upon to vote for today, shows the love of both and the total coverage of the government for this leading sector of our economy. It demonstrates the importance, but also the struggling path in which it has been served since the first moment of the Koronioi pandemic, to support Greek women and Greek farmers, the people of struggling that have been critically affected by this health crisis. The government as a whole and the Ministry of Rural Development in particular have been practicing on the side of the rural world, taking measures which are still being implemented at the first moment. It gradually has 150 million for the relief of farmers, farmers and our fishermen, targeted at specific groups that hurt and not horizontally, such as irresponsible and unconscious, it insists that opposition be proposed. We are making use of the funds from the Rural Development Programme, the Operational Programme for Fisheries and the Sea. We speeded up payments from the ELGA and, of course, another very important initiative taken by the Ministry was the overcompensation of EUR 107 million for the LEADER programme. It's a case we worked on. I, too, am happy and proud in particular of Ioannina, which has two development companies. The leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development has responded, made this overcompensation so that 107 million are still in place - apart from the first budget for the LEADER - to invest in substance, which will get a place and, at the same time, create jobs. Especially in my country, Ioannina, with two developmental ones, the Trichoda, which takes 3.8 million even the "Italian" that takes 4 million more, we have approached almost what the local society asked for to make substantial investments in our country. Another problem faced by producers because of the pandemic and in which the government quickly reacted is the lack of labour from the suspension of the free movement of seasonal workers. He's been dealing with the PSP. Mr. Voridis analyzed them exactly before. The farm world knows about it right now. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would just like to say that I hope - as some of my colleagues have said from SYRIZA, from Mytilini, for example - that the Ministry and the ELGA respond directly to the compensation to the olive producers, wherever they need and have of course been controlled by the services, because this year in particular, the price of olive oil has fallen very much - almost or equal to the cost of production - something has to be done. I'm sure the Ministry will deal with it. I know he sees the factors from all over Greece. In Itolo-Carnania, which has 44% of olive production, we are also anxiously awaiting this initiative. This bill was well analysed by the majority rapporteur, Mr Dionyssis Stamenitis. In order not to steal any more time, I just want to stand once again - it has stood for a long time since his speech and Mr Vorides - on the matter of tightening up the penalty framework for illegal Greekism. I am sure, as he said, that you agree, you are just looking to find a reason to disagree. And it is an opportunity today to think about it at night and tomorrow to come here and vote together on what the government proposes, because it is simply in the right direction. I will not go into other provisions so that I do not steal the time. Mr. Stamenitis said it. I just want to close by saying that the Mitsotakis Government has proved its practical support. The Ministry's leadership is doing this day's work, all these months and will continue to do so. This draft law here is another step in the implementation of a primary sector upgrading plan and the creation of one of the main pillars of our country's development. And in this spirit, I think the more Members vote on it, the more they will respond to the needs of Greek farmers and they will be measured on the right side of history with the problems of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u170	When are we going to vote, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u171	After the Parliamentary Representatives, and if the State Secretary speaks. The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Fotini Bakadima has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let us begin with a commonly accepted truth, although our country has many agricultural products, the development and implementation of a good agricultural policy has not so far been achieved and I fear that it will be delayed for some time yet. The open and unacceptably low producer prices in the majority of agricultural products, such as cotton, peaches, oil and much more, as well as the high cost of production resulting from the refusal and this government to implement the permanent request of farmers for agricultural oil, as is the case respectively in the logistics and industry, is increasing the problems faced by Greek farmers, which are already under way because of the economic crisis. At the same time, the ELGA does not recognise and compensate all the disasters, the government promotes private insurance for agricultural insurance and there is a fear of a possible increase in farmers' insurance contributions. All of this makes matters even worse. Merra25, acknowledging the importance of the agricultural sector for the development of the whole country, has drawn up and tabled an integrated policy on agriculture from the outset. Since Mr Lebanese, before me, has referred to the fact that we should put forward proposals, these are our own proposals for agricultural policy. What are the main points of our proposals? Firstly, food self-sufficiency, with quality products produced by protecting the soil, biodiversity, natural resources and the cultural heritage of our country. Secondly, soft fishing by limiting fish farming and imposing strict rules on the food and the density of those who remain. Thirdly, systematic restriction of the pesticides and chemical soil improvers used and the total exclusion of mutated organisms from the multinationals that develop them. Fourthly, the emphasis on organic production. Fifth, continuous cleansing of forest land from garbage, flammable materials and other workshops from local government and PPC, especially when we talk about areas close to its facilities and cables. Sixth, water saving and reuse. Seventh, use of residues, for example for bioenergy, production of compost fertilisers. Eighth, the restructuring of crops in a manner consistent with the local conditions of each region. With regard to agricultural cooperatives, our permanent position is the fact of using cooperatives in agricultural production, precisely in order to develop economies of scale that reduce the cost of production, but cooperatives that follow the course of the agricultural product from sowing to distribution in retail. In this way alone, we can bypass the middle-private wholesalers who are actually harnessing the goodwill of our farmers, resolving the issue of the very low producer prices. At the same time, any subsidised and supportive policy has a multiplier effect in terms of its benefits on large farms. As far as the common agricultural policy is concerned, it has turned the multitude of small, medium-sized and medium-sized farmers into mere contributors, who are chasing the subsidy and not the quality and competitive production on the international markets. That is why it also needs to be restructured and reconstructed at depths so that it can work positively by supporting farmers and promoting the production of quality agricultural products. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that both major parties - both the New Democracy and the SYRIZA - support conventional agriculture. It is a type of agriculture that causes the compaction of the producer between the counterparts of a large company that processs the raw material and has the final product on the market on the one hand and the bank that lends the derivative on the other. We therefore have the full deterioration of the farmer in one, quasi, employee of the processing company and disposal of the final product and even overdue. At the same time, agricultural production is becoming a game for the large, large companies, large banks, with the farmer taking the role of the last wheel of the car. I honestly ask myself, ladies and gentlemen, if it is possible for some of us - even some of us - to want such a future for our farmers. I find it hard to believe, and I really don't want to believe it. I wonder if it deserves a country with such rich soil and the exceptional weather conditions we have, a country that could be one of the great productive powers at international level, such a policy. A policy that degrades and degrades both farmers and their production, depriving them of the real dynamics that could be developed in the altar of serving the interests of large companies and banking institutions, which already play a major role in our lives and, unfortunately, define the future of all of us. I wonder, at the same time, how conventional agriculture can be combined with modernisation. Ladies and gentlemen, a key issue that would be of value to be debated - if not today, at some point - is the question of the financing of agricultural production. As we all know very well, the exercise of rural activity requires constant liquidity and access to cheap working capital. Previously, there was the Agricultural Bank, which started as a state pillar providing cheap liquidity to our farmers, to change, to evolve, unfortunately, into a credit institution for consumer loans in the first euro period, until it was sold for a piece of bread at Piraeus Bank. So, now that there is no equivalent support institution for farmers, would it not be worth discussing how it would be possible for farmers in our country to be given this capital support that is so necessary to deal with many issues that have to be resolved every day, especially when we see our farmers being affected by weather phenomena and left without any support? The recent examples of the disasters suffered by the cherries growers in Larissa, with the frost destroying almost entirely the production of early and medium varieties, as well as the producers of apples and seasonal fruits in eastern Pelion because of quartz which occurred a few days ago. It is phenomena that have led them and other colleagues, other farmers in despair, because there is no guarantee that the ELGA will compensate them. If we add to this situation the consequences it has brought and the advent of the pandemic in our country will still be brought to bear, the future will be extremely sloppy and sloppy. In view of the new conditions created by the coronary with the cancellation of exports of our agricultural products, as well as all the obstacles which have been placed on domestic transport, conditions which force our farmers daily to decide to reduce their agricultural production - which means that it will remain reduced for some time, once we have overcome the pandemic, because the health bet seems to have won at this stage - we believe that this medium-term reduction in the supply of agricultural products retains increases in food prices, when the incomes of many of our fellow citizens are falling apart. In conclusion, the lack of a substantial government support policy for agricultural production will bring, apart from the collapse of farmers, a huge food crisis for everyone else. Another proposal that we have to table and which we consider to be the best solution to keep agricultural production alive and not to starve, especially the people of towns, is a proposal that - we think - should be a pillar of support for farmers. The main components of this are two very simple things: firstly, the state to guarantee farmers that it will buy at the respective prices last year all the quantities unsold because of the crisis in agricultural goods. Secondly, the state in cooperation with the agricultural cooperatives to promote these agricultural products in the people's markets, which the supermarkets see in order to make more of their oligopolistic position at the expense of citizens. I understand that, by analogy, such as central banks, they operate as creditors in times of bank collapse, so the state has an obligation to act as buyer of the ultimate need for agricultural products and to support both farmers and the citizens who see their incomes falling day by day. Ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable that agricultural policy requires a central plan with a dual objective, on the one hand, that funding should take place without the private speculative criteria of conventional agriculture with very low interest rates and great facilities, on the other hand, agricultural production in our country be linked directly to tourism, increasing the added value of the invoking heavy industry in our country, which is 'blowing' because of imports to meet the needs of our visitors, but also our domestic needs, even in products that we should not even import, such as citrus fruit, olive oil and much more. Producers and growers should see the state standing by them, because no modernization efforts will succeed if there is no production, if our farmers do not feel the hand of the state beside them, to help them to stand on their feet, especially at such a difficult time as the post-Koronian era is deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, Parliamentary Representative from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, the uncertain finding of every good judge for internal developments is that the New Democracy Government very quickly forgot the lessons from the long-standing crisis that Greece experienced and its election announcements. At the same time it seems to have restarted to the well-being of polls and not to have realized that good European Union decisions on the Recovery Fund are not enough, but a national plan and effective management is needed. I would remind you that in 2001 we achieved something that many considered impossible. With a strategy formulated in 2003 by Andreas Papandreou we succeeded eight years later with Prime Minister Costas Simitis joining the hard core of Europe, in the Eurozone, which was a necessary treaty for the country's modern history. The necessary Treaty, however, proved to be unsatisfactory, since the following national economic derailment policies have cut off the prospect, have earned this great advantage that the country has gained and led to ten years of crisis. The so-called anti-immemorial forces not only contributed to the attempt to tackle the crisis but reacted rampantly to the reform programme of PASOK and George Papandreou and overturned it as soon as they took over the government in the form of SYRIZA - ANEL. But they didn't stop there. They tied the country in hand not only with the third but also with the fourth memorandum and the long-term commitments of the high surpluses and the U.S. with the assignment of the public property for ninety-nine years to the lenders with the n. 4389/2016 who voted only SYRIZA and ANEL. Negative experiences can be useful to avoid mistaken choices today. Following the European Union's decisions to deal with the recession caused by restrictive measures, the Government should assume its responsibilities. It's in the hands of governments now. In order to make effective use of the financial instruments available to the countries by the European Union since 2021, there should be preparation, good management and, of course, priorities consistent with the needs of the country, both in the social field, with the pillars of public health, as well as in green development and modernisation with technological developments. We, as a responsible political power, also tabled the interim programme and concrete proposals because, until the recovery fund's money comes up, the recession is not only caracados but it works and eats the guts of the Greek economy. The agricultural sector would be completely missing, if there were no exceptions, from the measures announced by the government. The draft law we are debating is far from the needs of farmers and the agri-food sector. Most of the provisions contained, many of which are correct, could have been implemented by ministerial decisions or other regulations or even circulars of the Ministry. The government confirms that it does not deal with the serious problems of the agri-food sector and its prospects, but is confined to the type of communication management. The emergence of the fines for the Greeks, as the major government policy for the agricultural and livestock sector, when it does not include a measure to strengthen the mechanisms and functions that will prevent the phenomenon, reminds us of the highest fines for the road traffic code that Michael Liapis once imposed, which resulted in increased infraction and accidents. Your policy is based on the perception of repression, which, in the end, you do not achieve and you do not care for policies to strengthen the production of competing foods. That's the point. We in the Change Movement, like farmers, are true that we did not expect anything important from you despite great election commitments. But we don't see any elementary things. Even farmers' money, from compensation to aid, is paid very slowly or is not paid at all. I'll be more detailed below. The constant repetition of the cheeses to combat Greekism and the 150 million available for the agricultural sector have become mockery for farmers who have been excluded horizontally from almost all measures. They hear about aid, billions, millions, but they don't even get euros. Can you tell us, Minister, when and how, by what rules and procedures will you implement the European Union's decision to support each farmer who has been affected by up to EUR 5 000 and every undertaking in the agricultural sector affected by up to EUR 50,000? Specific things. Come and tell us about it in particular. You need to understand that the productive sector and farmers need support to survive, but the perspective is now in need of a decision. We cannot wait for events and react to negative developments. Production obeys the natural biological cycle, and if no decisions are taken on time, the problems created cannot be corrected by decelerated decisions, however good they may be. In any case, the cost is much higher. You are almost a year in government and you have not been facing almost any of the immediate and serious problems in the primary sector caused by the erroneous policies of the SYRIZA and for which you were in the pre-election state. Did you change the suffocating, the failed mixture of tax policy and insurance contributions that continue to drown the farmer? You have not taken steps to reduce production costs and especially energy costs. We ask you whether you will finally implement the agricultural oil card we have proposed on several occasions. You have not taken steps to ensure bank liquidity and the financing of productive activities. You have not taken any action on national products, olive oil, cotton and dairy products. There is no effect on the compensation for the oil producers to submit the famous file. When are we going to find out, Minister? Is he going to the European Union? Seems to me you're stuck somewhere in the post office. I don't know. Let us know. Is there a treatment? Is there an envelope? What can farmers expect? However, there have also been damage to wine growing, except for the oil producers who have lost income for many years. You should finally get into the immediate problems. Where production is destroyed, it may not continue without the payment of the compensation. We're not listening to anything about the upgrade of the homicide system. Same as the past. But the circumstances have changed. The situation needs to be addressed in good time. The 2014-2020 rural development programme, like the NRP of course, has placed valuable Community resources at risk of being exploited and at risk of being lost. Improving projects after the project of evaluation have been left out of funding. And here I want to talk about 'LEADER'. Let us tell the truth about 'LEADER' and not about the fine words you say. The Ministry of Agriculture, therefore, had, by decision of the previous government, the possibility of overcompensation for 1.4 billion. It was able to make use of an additional 1.4 billion. Of these, 170 million were allocated to the LEADER. Of LEADER 170 million, 40 million were allocated to specific projects. They were implemented and left with 130 million. Add 45 million of the MAGPs. It makes us 175 million, Mr. Levane. Of the 175 million left, you're celebrating. Can you explain this arithmetic?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u175	Isn't that better than zero?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u176	But it was 170 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u177	Before the coronary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u178	No, no, no! So it was 170 million. You gave 68 million to some other policies and some other decisions, stayed 107 million and celebrate. The issues relating to production, with the strengthening of entrepreneurship in the primary sector, you also had them on priority. Any submitted business and investment project should be supported. No plan will be left out of the LEADER. So you will find the rest from elsewhere - which is about inert, ponding money - to transfer them to investment projects that are waiting to be implemented, such as sponge, water. We can't cut and put a noose in productive activities. On this subject I expect the Minister's informed response and study if not today, then tomorrow. I expect his intention not to leave any investment project out. It has taken no action to ensure that agricultural products are paid back, nor, of course, to legislation for the ELGA and the need to upgrade the regulations. Remuneration delays have returned to 2008-2009 levels. Many colleagues have spoken. They said that problems, problems, one another, etc. Yes, there are over time problems, but there are also policies. The situation in ELGA in 2009 -- I recall - was a micrograph of the country's situation after the economic derailment 2004-2009. PASOK, colleagues of the New Democracy, received a debited ELGA with 3.8 billion outstanding loans and several million unpaid payments. Mostly, however, he received an organisation in a distorted, inefficient, customer mode of operation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need some time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u179	A little, very little.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u180	The reform of the ELGA with Law 3877/2010 was more than necessary. Devise the agency, put an end to the customer-type compensation and the exceptional decisions to a large extent. Some then found "holes" and financed their prefectures by election. If you want, we can call them decisions. Compensation payments are made in a single instalment and the time from the damage to the payment has been continuously reduced. The 2014 administration - and I remember then that we set up a special group in the PASOK Agricultural Policy area - has prepared a change in regulations on plant and animal production to cover more risks, particularly those arising from the climate crisis and the problems that we see today do not fall within the allowances of the ELGA and, of course, prepared a fairer system of contributions that was really necessary. In 2015, SYRIZA ‘frozen’ all changes, including, of course, ‘frozen’ and the strengthening of the organisation from the resources of the Rural Development Programme which, while authorised, did not proceed. ELGA then had a surplus of 132 million. The Ministry of Finance of SYRIZA grabbed from the ELGA fund by an act of legislative content of 50 million. They became ‘smoking’. These were the farmers' contributions, they were not the state funding to do the state's thing. That's $50 million. You have to inform the Committee on Production and Trade and say what you have received in relation to ELGA, what issues are pending and what you intend to do. Bring the information to move forward and complete the reform, if you are willing, in the direction of a public insurance system that really includes all the risks that the farmer is facing today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u181	Finish, Mr. Kegeroglu, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u182	Minister, you do not seem to have launched anything tangible even for the strategic measures, preparation of the new CAP, the necessary national strategic plan for agriculture and how this will be incorporated into the national productive model. It is 'in the air'. Even for the Green Agreement, we only hear slogans, and it is an issue that will deal with and affect both the production process and consumption and, of course, the way in which aid is paid. The Change Movement is close to the problems, near the world of work and production, and we have worked out proposals that we have tabled. Because of a lack of time I mention three proposals that you need to see immediately. We insist. You have rejected them so far. Do what you don't hear. I don't think you're wearing earplugs! First sentence. A direct advance of aid can be made in June of 850 million - it is their own money - with a cash facility that will be offset by 2020 payments later. The public will only be charged interest of three to four months. Count them out. Special income support for all affected farmers, farmers, fishermen and all sectors of the primary sector. Exploiting the 460 million returning to our country from fines for which we have been entitled to, to be used for guaranteeing and providing low-interest loans as working capital. Summary of farmers in the arrangements for all types of loans, which have to do with insurance funds, which have to do with the facilities they need. Integration of farmers into the Labour Fund. This sector cannot be excluded from the Labour Fund. And, of course, an integrated solution for farmers because you have given a partial and fragmentary solution. I conclude by saying that there are too many regulations and sections, parts of the Rural Development Programme which, with the liberation actually made by the European Union, can also be moved and exploited, so that we can quickly activate and inflame the machines for producing and strengthening the competitiveness of our products. The activation, for example, of the de minimis regulation must reach the maxim. This tool can't be used with the dropper. You have the tools, you have the funding, take decisions, take initiatives, in order to activate the production process, support the farmer. It proved within the crisis that the agri-food sector is the heart of a country's production and economy and of course of a country's life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, too. Mr Stavros Arachovitis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u184	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u185	The Minister said he wouldn't talk, but Mr. Kegeroglu turned him on! I see he kept notes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u186	It is only for one amendment that I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u187	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u188	Like I said, I'll talk tomorrow about the bill and keep it. The amendment under number 331/21 was simply tabled on the subject of the 'Prime dismissal of farmers for debts to the public' by three colleagues in the New Democracy. This amendment is late and may also have a financial impact, because it is essentially a criminal aspect, but it is related to debt collection, so it could be said that there is an economic risk here, and so it does not have approval from the General Accounting Office. That is why it cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u189	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u190	So the others are accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u191	I have not made any late amendment and none that is accompanied by a report from the General Accounting Office.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u192	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u193	That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u194	Please, not dialogue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u195	Mr Kegeroglu is now complaining about an amendment which I said would require more legal work and which I will examine. That's why he's complaining. His other amendment has budgetary costs and is not accompanied by a report from the General Accounting Office. I say as a general principle that it is not allowed by the Constitution and I cannot accept any amendments that come from Parliament which have budgetary costs and are not accompanied by a report from the General Accounting Office. I can't accept that. What can we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u196	Only you can...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u197	Mr. Kegeroglu, please. You stole me for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u198	That is why I said, Mr Kegeroglu, that I will look into the amendments. They are hereby rejected. They're being held further for consideration. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u200	Mr President, all the time is 12 minutes for both today and tomorrow?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u201	Tomorrow's eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, I have heard that a fellow Member raised a point that the government is not represented if the Minister is absent because the State Secretary has no legislative initiative. To get together here and not to hear things that are wrong, I will say that the government is obviously represented at the level...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u203	I don't think there was...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u204	A colleague here in the Chamber raised this issue. In order not to say this because it is completely inaccurate, I will say that the government is, of course, represented by the State Secretary and collectively represented. Those who do not have a legislative initiative of the Government cannot simply accept amendments or testify, i.e. intervene in the legislative text.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u205	It is well known, and that has been answered, Mr Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u206	As far as representation is concerned, we are obviously represented and one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u207	The New Democracy in another bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u208	Mr. Kegeroglu, please. The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media must start shortly. Let's respect it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u209	Don't we have the right to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u210	Your colleague, Mr Arachovitis, has been waiting for an hour. Please, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr Arachovite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing a bill today after the debate in the committees, where it appeared to be a bill of suggestion and a surge in the services, which is being dealt with on the one hand, but without giving a central direction, without facing much more and without responding to the concerns of farmers and, in particular, in these conditions of pandemic. Obviously there are good provisions which we shall vote on. Obviously - and we have talked about it in the committees - there are provisions which are not good and we have pointed them out again. It is a bill that is mostly bricks and horns sprinkled away. But to start and put the framework of our debate, like our dear colleague, Mr Lebanese, said from the outset, what is happening these days in America is a popular uprising after Floyd's murder, is the result of a social uprising, a society of inequality. This is further extended - and it is clear - the pandemic, the way it has been dealt with and the consequences that we will have for the coming years. And why is that relevant to what we're talking about today? Because both the FAO and the WHO and the food inspector of the United Nations have talked about an imminent food crisis. And the question is: will the food crisis be a crisis because of a food shortage or because of an increase in food to the consumer without the producer benefiting from that? The answer is that social inequalities are intensified in the way and with the supply chain sharing system that hits producers without benefiting consumers. So these inequalities, the opening of the'slap' created is what also creates the imminent or likely threat of food crisis, if you like. We have heard in this debate all these days an attack on SYRIZA as a previous government, as if it is still ruling. Do you not realize that after ten months you have the full responsibility of your actions and omissions about what happens in your field of responsibility? This old-fashioned, bankrupt logic of opposition to opposition does not go through the world. Let's figure that out. It does not cross the world, and it is even a confession of failure in the eyes of the farmers who are listening to us. It is like admitting that you did not do anything, but 'what did the previous ones do?' Let's move on, I think, more productive issues. Of course, the government does not see the farmers, that farmers are invisible from the Prime Minister's position in his speech that he did not find a moment to say the word 'farmers', to mention someplace for farmers as well. So it is a government policy and we should not focus on the Minister and his work on the Ministry. Here is a big issue, there is a food safety issue, and we should look at it very seriously at what is happening in our country right now and what is happening in our surroundings. If it is not supported, primary production is really threatened, for the reasons we said at the outset, by food crisis. And the primary production to be supported must all understand the mechanism that works. It's not an electrical device that goes into the plug, works, comes out of the plug, stops working, and when we decide to put it back on the plug again, it's going to work again. Production has circles. If the cycle stops violently at some point, it can't start again. That is what we are saying and we are insisting on taking immediate, forward-looking measures now. The main question is where to find money to support primary production. Money can be saved either from the fines and charges that we will not be called upon to pay, precisely because the SYRIZA Government has taken into account and changed the definition of Omnibus and we have the acquittal decisions from 2009 to 2012 and we continue, from money that can be claimed by the European Union as extraordinary financing of a situation facing not only our country, but at the same time, all the countries of Europe and at the same time there are programmes that can be developed without a higher cost, described in our 'Measure upright' programme, such as, for example, the state as a purchaser of exceptional refuge for products produced in Greece, for domestically produced food. Now let's go see what's going on with the new common agricultural policy that's taking critical decisions these hours. We hear that we will have a fairly large reduction in the budget, particularly in the second pillar on the part of the investment. We must also have a separate debate on what is happening and what will be the impact in the coming years on primary production, what this reduction in the CAP, subsidies and development programmes means. But the big question is that Mr Vojcehovski, who belongs to your own political family, to the European People's Party, has shown particular discomfort in dealing with pandemic and continues to negotiate the new CFP not only to be disgusted but also to accept without substantial reactions the reduction in the new CFP budget. So the consequences that our country will accept in the next decade are now being judged. Now decisions are made. And here we would expect to see the Ministry reliant and with proposals, let alone when the Commissioner is - I repeat - your own political family. Let's go to the olive grove. The price of oil and edible olives has been at the lowest level in recent years. They also need support because of climate change where we have extreme phenomena. We had a few days ago heat, and then we had a hail. We had a temperature record and an early record, days earlier, that haven't been noted before. On May 1800, eighteen times in the history of heat has occurred over 36 degrees. So early and so high temperatures are record! Here, then, we have a regulation of the ELGA which does not really cover it, and it really needs to be adjusted. We had, however, started the process of organisational change of the regulation by awarding a proportionate study, which was frozen. Why is it frozen? Why did you not make timely use of the recruitment of staff when, on these days after the heat, we have hails, which are covered by the ELGA Regulation and which the ELGA needs and does not have? Why are we observing a process of depreciation of the organization? Maybe to open the door to the private? Mr. Levanne, you're from Iato-Carnania. As far as the price for edible olives is concerned, we see that the premium is increased by 58% in a product whose price is at the bottom, where the price of the product is below it. Why is that? Did the previous price be forbidden to enter private individuals? And this increase in the price of the premium does not only occur in the olive, it occurs in a number of products at this time. We must also respond to what Mr Kegeroglu said about the 50 million. These, Mr Colleagues, were transferred to the Bank of Greece, never became smoke. Do not say these things in this Chamber, because they are simply inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u212	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u213	Mr. Kegeroglu, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u214	The 50 million were transferred as an asset of ELGA to the Bank of Greece and are there. And the agency today has cash resources. Is it or isn't it? He has his dowry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u215	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u216	Mr. Kegeroglu, your voice doesn't help you to be heard. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u217	This is an agency that can stand alongside the farmers. But modernization is needed and social justice is needed, and new conditions need to be adapted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u218	Lilappa...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u219	Mr. Kegeroglu, don't open a dialogue. So that we don't remember what happened in 2010, when you had the opportunity to change him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u220	No dialogue. Don't ruin it now at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u221	We're not going to ruin it. We still have a lot to talk about. But let's go see some issues in the bill, because time is running, and we might not be able to talk about them today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u222	Left than SYRIZA Kegeroglu!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u223	Minister, don't tick him. Respect Mr. Arachovite speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u224	Minister, you have made'significant' that you have criminalized certain violations. Let's see the substance first. What's the point? The point is that by dismantling control mechanisms, it makes no sense to increase or reduce infringements. And within your bill you have the following contradiction, one article with the other. In the fisheries article you are giving fines - high, poorly - on the one hand, you are severely fined. So what are you telling us? What's the message you're transmitting right now? Why is the message contradictory? On the one hand, we are giving fines, on the other hand, strict fines and penalties. But let's go see if it's really the way you say it. For the potato producers claim that these days the Greeks make 'a party'. We didn't see any serious tests carried out, caught any circuits. So what are we talking about? Let's go see the CFD for the milk market control measures, CFD 838/21-32019. The penalties here have been linked to the whims, and, in fact, I am reading to you in Article 8 on sanctions that reach up to 3% of the turnover plus the fixed amount. In the same article, there is provision for the withdrawal of a licence in point 4. I'll give it to you in the Minutes. So here we have a framework of sanctions. The question is how long the controls are respected. And to see now in what you legislate at this time and ask us to vote on what you say. You're saying he's being punished by prison at least three months or a penalty. The 'or' is another contradiction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u225	We changed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u226	Have you changed it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u227	Have you changed it? That's good again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u228	We did it 'and'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u229	Copolymers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u230	We're happy. Because that was a contradiction in that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u231	We're not ruining it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u232	Well, it's good that you're listening. It's very good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u233	Whatever you're telling us, we'll do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u234	And because I'm abusing time and I don't have time...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u235	You don't have any time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u236	I know, Mr. President. Stay in Article 19 for cooperatives. We are asking you again whether you have agreed, if there is agreement, with the committee as well as with all the parties involved, it is well. If there is no agreement, however, and there is partial agreement with some, we invite you to withdraw it, to agree here too. But don't do more damage than we're going to solve. As far as fisheries is concerned, the majority of fishermen, both coastal and inland waters, are concerned, outside the CFP for EUR 800. Why? Because the Ministry of Finance first set the exceptions to co-ownership and a number of other parameters and then legislated favourably. So here seems to be a great contradiction. I'm just finishing up and we'll have a chance to talk about it. The agricultural world now needs action, it needs results from all of us and especially from you who have been responsible for ten months. Don't forget. He needs to see the results in both his pocket and his life in practice. With this bill, which we are debating today and being voted on tomorrow, this objective is not served. So I put this in the Minutes so that everyone can have access to it so that we can really see whether it is a question of sanctions or a question of controls. We should take the substance to its real dimension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, too. The debate is adjourned on the principle of the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: "Applications of competence of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food for the upgrading and modernisation of the agricultural sector". We are entering the vote at first. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill. Make sure you vote. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would very much ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u238	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u239	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u240	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Adjustments of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food on the upgrading and modernisation of the agricultural sector’ was accepted in principle by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-02-S1-commons.u241	With the consent of the House at 18.58 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, 3 June 2020 at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate; b) legislative work: continuation of the debate and vote on the articles, amendments and all the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: "Regions of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food on the upgrading and modernisation of the agricultural sector".
