ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Reference will be made here to the anniversary of 17 November on the insurrection of the Polytechnic. I would like to inform you that the President of Parliament, Mr Constantine Tasoulos, is heading for a wreath at the Polytechnic Head of the Interparliamentary Delegation, composed of Mr Spilios Levanos and Odysseas Konstantinopoulos, as well as a representative of the Association of Workers of the Greek Parliament. After a short position of my own, fellow Members will be given the floor from the parliamentary groups and we will finish paying tribute with one minute's silence. The MPs, who have been designated by the Parliamentary Groups, are from New Democracy by Sophia Vultesis, MP B3' South Athens, from the Coalition of the Radical Left - Progressive Alliance Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, MP B2' Western Sector of Athens, from the Movement of Change, Michael Katrinis, MP Ilias, from the Communist Party of Greece, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karatanasopoulos, Vouliotis Achaias, from the Greek Solution, Sophia - Haidodos Asmakopoulou, MP 2' Piraeus, from Mera25 Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a historic day for our country, for democracy and for individual freedoms. That is why the National Representation pays particular tribute to the heroic uprising of those who fought the right for democracy, culminating in November 1973. I will not deal specifically with the dramatic events that took place forty-seven years ago, which we very strongly experienced, at the height of the Holy Friday 17 November 1973. I shall also not refer to the symbolism and timeless messages of the uprising. All this is well known and the next speakers will be mentioned. I will try to convey the climate, the consensus and the determination of our people against the tyrannical regime in these historic hours, of our students who were the protagonists in the Polytechnics and of the anonymous representatives of what we were outside of it. The uprising against the dictatorship was nurtured in the souls of our people, and our students took the weight and responsibility of this uprising. They were ready long ago, as the poet would say, to suffer any suffering, having full consciousness of the dangers they persecuted. Once again the principles and values of natural law, which our ancestors inherited, prevailed the law of the Colonels. Really, what were our students' guns? No, of course, material violence, which they did not even discuss. Their weapons were philosophical, brotherly unity, confession, determination, unclean thirst for freedom. This is the internal freedom that we Greeks have rooted in us and led us to all liberation struggles. Because we may have been enslaved as a people or deprived of our ruthless dictatorship of fundamental individual and social rights, but we did not feel free to feel. We've never been free. What were their contours? The slogans emitted by the improvised radio station of free besieged were clearly against each other, but they were controlled by references to national independence and popular sovereignty. The fight against the dictatorship was a struggle of Greece, a fight of all Greeks, a fight of supra-party. One was his ideology: fighting for freedom, democracy, social justice, struggle for Greece. No party, no political formation, no political power has decided, planned or organized the rebellion. Individual responsibility, which characterises democracy in the rule of law, is the one that stimulated collective responsibility and united all voices. Therefore, those few at times tried to entreat the unselfish mind of Hellenism offend history itself. There was no political colour in my group of fifteen students in law, ASE and medicine, nor were the members of the Lesbian residential that we ran to support our students. The Polytechnic belongs to all of us, and we don't give it to anyone. Before I close my place, you will allow me to read you a poem, which I wrote on the first anniversary of the festival in 1974, inspired by the events as I experienced on Friday evening 17 November 1973. It is from a collection of me called "Controversy" and is dedicated to the generation of the Polytechnic. The poem is as follows: "The index of freedom balanced dark colors over the heroes an hour full of inflated clouds. My country, filled with his horror, aged in the warm palms of your children, barred country away from the joy of the sun, you rose up in the voices of the drill passionate in your love, a stone of hope. And when you are here, my chaos brother, proud and honored, with the crown of the freedom bathed in your blood, with the smell of smoke and sweat put all this in our soul, our only truth, wake up brother, and hear the voices of the birds above your memory, sound out of our breaths, tighten our hands that grieve you, eternal friend of you. Drowned in tear is the fate of the country, dark is the truth of your unrighteous chaos, bright shall your name remain to others, engraved in the air and in the grass, in our voice and in our earth, in our lives and in death. Hug your mother, who stands next to you, just a boy, a symbol of her motherhood, a crown of her pain, a tear of her joy. All the mothers have a child and all the boys call her mother. The sadness of the sun shouldn't be waking up and the grass is born fresher and greener at the place where you walked, a child of the air, a child of the country. The tears drip, they muddle the soil. Blood gathers in the groceries the mark. The bread of truth is all ours, doomed by your hands with fire, machine guns and tanks. Clean bread, strong enough to bear the fly in time. I'm right to worship your brave voice. Along with the tears of your form, I look close to the passage of white snow, beyond infinity, to the eternal residence of time. Go to sleep and be quiet. We'll hold fast on what you've given us. The blood-painted sheet will never dry. The flowers won't turn out either. Our voices won't be silenced either. They will praise and sound strong by you. Beyond the state, more in our hearts than tanks. My brother was quiet." [[Applause]] And now I will give the floor to Mrs Vulture from New Democracy. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, congratulations. You surprised us and moved us. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Parliament today honours the anniversary of the Polytechnic uprising in conditions of unprecedented global health crisis. As our thoughts flies towards those days of heroism, self-renunciation, and reluctantly proclaiming faith in democracy and its defence and those who did not hesitate to promote their breasts in the junta tank, painfully digging into the people who have been lost and lost these days, to those who give their loneliness to hospitals and to the intensive, but to all those who, with their science and humanity, have been in the first line in this war against the pandemic. No fight goes lost. Today we are giving the fight for life and we must unite it, as we do then. Then, forty-seven years ago, when the Greek youth, all Greek and Greek women united themselves in the fight against a free, barbaric and vicious regime which by force destroyed democracy, closed the parliament, served every democratic voice, selfish interests of a treacherous group of coups, banished, imprisoned, even to death those who opposed this brutal and illegal power, abolished every law of parliamentary democracy and led to national destruction by invasion and occupation in Cyprus. "The regime that I represent is revolutionary and cuts heads" Pattacos said to the then president of the Council of State and later President of the Republic in relentless Michael Stasinopoulou. The regime opposed the youth of the time, but also all the Greeks, who took part in that uprising, flooding the streets of Athens, demonstrating and transporting supplies to the excluded, with Sofia Vebo watching and inspiration from the balcony of its apartment on Stournari street, glad that once again he saw the Greeks united in a common purpose. Those with the slightest connection to that uprising, those who passed the polytechnic gate on those unforgettable days know that nothing broke up with them, no ideologies, no parties. Passing the polytechnic gate you were showing your national identity and not your party identity. In one of those rare historical moments of national unity, from the top of their unity the Greeks saw the same purpose, falling the junta, leaving this vicious regime that, not only imprisoned democracy, but under the misleading slogan "clean hands" hid corruption, nepotism, scandals, transactions with foreigners, such as the infamous Tom Pope. After the fall of the junta, at a high national price, is the truth, every year we seek the message of the Polytechnic. I have never personally had any doubts that this is summarised in the need to defend democracy and its institutions, parliamentary culture, freedom of speech and freedom of the press. All the others, which, depending on the economic and political circumstances and the party needs of the moment are being added retrospectively, simply blur and distort the true message of unity against the free regime and the message of national reconciliation. That is why I have always believed, and I believe that any correlation between the junta and events that took place in the period of democracy is indiscriminate. Every matching of the junta's practices with legal decisions of democracy is dangerous. Every use of expressions that refers to the darkest pages of that time is a prejudicial to our democracy and the conquests of our people. Juda means demolition of democracy, abolition of the Constitution, lockdown in Parliament, abolition of elections, censorship, imprisonment of policies of no party origin, persecution, imprisonment, torture, banning parties and trade unions, philosophicalism and favorability, all that was summarised in the famous "decide and order" that referred to decisions and orders of an illegal regime. The transfer of the "decided and ordered" to the decisions of the legitimate parliamentary culture is causing a dangerous confusion in the younger, especially generations who did not know - fortunately! - Junta. They have, however, met the goods of democracy, and we must not prevent them from appreciating them with dangerous and unequivocal identities. If we do not understand this, if we use the expressions of repression and the crimes of dictatorship over the body of democracy to serve timeless party interests, then we end up in desecration of the Polytechnic message, as well as when words related to pandemic are transferred to political dialogue. In the next generations, the message of the Polytechnic School must be brought to light, without distortions, without party bumps, unadulterated, a fight for democracy with the people to defend parliamentary citizenship, freedoms and individual rights. This year that we are celebrating all the national and religious long days and all the great moments of our recent history, such as the restoration of democracy and the uprising of the Polytechnics, on our backs drops an additional burden: The transmission of the true message of the Polytechnic which was to defend the ideals of democracy combined with the message to defend an equally valuable asset, which is the defence of life itself, for which the dictatorships do not care. These two highest goods, democracy and health, are not conflicting. Both are constitutionally regulated. Democracy does not enter the quarantine when the state fights for the protection of life. So let us honour, ladies and gentlemen, this Polytechnic anniversary, as those who have really fought for democracy, freedom and respect for human and individual rights united and without disastrous divisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u3	Athanasios Papachristopoulos from the Radical Left Coalition - Progressive Alliance has the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u4	By the way, taking the opportunity from the previous speaker, I would remind you that Sofia's father Vultesis, Yiannis Vultesis, played a decisive role, with personal sacrifice, in revealing the guilty of the murder of Gregory Lambrakis. I really want to say that because I want to see forward. I would first like to welcome the fact that three parties, Mera25, the JRC and SYRIZA, under the conditions that have prevailed in the last few moments, have united their voices. I want here - so as not to misunderstand myself - to say that I do not believe there is any human being in this Chamber, which does not understand that four hundred tubed and over a thousand infected people and many dead do not leave room for at least non-respect of health rules. And I think that if this government really had a good intention before it was done anything, it would say 'children, come and get to know', just as it was in too many cases. You know, very well, that neither the 28th of October was celebrated nor the 25th of March, but wreaths were deposited with the health protocol. No one understood why this authoritarianism. Let me say this: For me, it is a tangible proof that the Polytechnics School is exist - it is sadly scary for some, and I do not understand why - and I do not understand why - it is not in conjunction with the recent decision of the Court of Appeal, which is a historic decision, where a far right-wing part, an authoritarian part - was condemned to use heavy words. Some have been there on the right side of history and I think that this message of simpleness, even in a text, in the first phase, of matching - to the least possible - of Mera25, of the JRC and of the SYRIZA. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to go a little further and remind you that the victims of authoritarianism have been much. The authoritarian way in which this country is governed has brought too many sacrifices. And if today we are here, in this Chamber it is also a favor to the sacrifices of these people. It wasn't just Gregory Lambrakis. He was not only the Nikiforos Mandiras who found himself drowned, an attorney at the trial of “S.H.I.I.E.L.D.”. It wasn't just Sotiris Petrolas. It wasn't just Kumis and Kanellepoulou, it wasn't Kaltezas, it wasn't Gregoropoulos. It was not only Paul Bridge. Too many victims have paid with their lives one single point of view. They fought for democracy. I just can't say it, they fought for democracy! And this one must unite us in this Chamber. I have a little sadness because I've learned to respect. Some people were convicted at the time. Nikos Manius is not among us. He spent sixteen years in prison for those who do not remember. Rose Mitafidis ate life. Makis Balaurras was brutally tortured in security detentions. I want to honour these colleagues. For five years we have fought together in this Chamber and I think it is at least my duty to say two words about them. I still want - without abusing time - to say that some people have written a long story and today they are in obscurity. I can't report them. They went home. They had a big fight at the time. For those who don't know, find out. My friend Mitsaras Papachristos, a pure child - and today you will find him in Exarchia - lives humblely and calmly. Eleni Anastasios, a doctor who kept the door while Gounelas was about to enter, along with the guard - who in honor later recognized his mistakes - when we went to replace it, somehow ridden us. He said "my hours are over in two hours". I want to remind you of a symbol of that time, Ioanna Karystiani and all these children. And I want to apologize because they are dozens, hundreds, children who never taught them what they did and so humbly and modestly left and went to their jobs. I would like - so as not to misuse time - to end with this: I have recently been impressed by an investigation by Inger Andersen. She's in charge of everything that has to do with the environment. She's a Swedish teacher. Inger Andersen calls for fifty scientists - and be careful, none of them has anything to do with what we say Left - and they are burdening the risk bell and they say: "The way to develop the planet" - and it is related to the Polytechnics, we will say - "driving the world community not only into pandemics, where what we have seen is the first, but it is not the most resounding and strongest bell, but it also leads to self-destruction of the planet." That's what Inger Andersen says. I have the names of 50 scientists who say the same. Some patterns collapsed these days with pandemic, market, profit. Minimum people - few, few, I want to say, eighty-four - have wealth as much as three and a half billion of the world. The Pissaridis project of this government is coming and a little - very bad model of this model of development. The phrase "Psalm - Childhood - Freedom" would say it is prophetic. It's a slogan that's been underestimated, that's supposedly simplistic. Oh, no! The bread is in a few, freedom in white collars and education in white collars. And if right now the Polytechnic is scaring, it's frightening because it's just as topical as ever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u5	It is now called in Step by the Movement of Change, Mr. Michalis Katrinis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. We celebrate the Polytechnic anniversary this year in unprecedented conditions, but also difficult, in the heavy landscape of the pandemic and while new risks threaten democracy, rights and social progress. The Polytechnics is one of the most important milestones of modern history in our country, it inspires us and gives us strength. This is because it marked the Greek youth's willingness to come out racingly and to end the authoritarianism and destructive policy of the junta. The motto "Psomi - Education - Freedom" which prevailed in those days, together with the universal requirement for national independence that existed everywhere at the gate of the Polytechnic, in the words and writings of that time, united in only four words the imperative demands of the Greek people and youth. So today we are inspired by not only the fight and the spirit of struggle, but also by the lengthyness of the demands. Justice, the guarantee of decent living, the fight for equal access to education and health, the defence of individual and social rights tested, the expansion of areas of freedom. Every year student clubs, institutions, parties and organizations honor the memory of the uprising on a massive course, with intense pulse. This year, with the pandemic defining our daily life and changing our lives rapidly, it is imperative that we honor the Polytechnic in other ways. As a movement of change, we said it clearly from the first moment without mocking ears. For all those who say that the course could and can be done, in compliance with the safety rules, we answer that in conditions of massity no one can guarantee that. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a fetish. The protection of health and human life is also the supreme task and the act of responsibility. We take it, because the burden falls on those who honour the message and the spirit of the Polytechnic, on all of us who participate each year in the course. Because we as PASOK care about us and it burns us, since every year as head of the course we carry the bloody flag of the Polytechnic. We are burdened with it and not with those who have been hostile to the Polytechnic and would very much like to erase it from collective memory. We were reminded by several New Democracy officials with aggressive statements in unsuspecting time. We do not forget Members who have previously denied the dead of the Polytechnic School, MPs praising the junta, but MPs who demonstratedly took the role of inspiring police operations as not due. Ladies and gentlemen, the cancellation of the course was necessary. The government, however, once again gave the wrong signal. He opted for the logic of authoritarianism, the demonstration of fence and acidification, instead of calling for political consensus, a consensus that the Prime Minister pretextally asked for afterward, after he had sparked the tension just a few days ago. So dilemma is not self - rule or blindness. The events before and during the junta do not allow us either such dilemma or discord and petty. We owe it to the Greek people, who have resisted from the first moment, despite the objections to the opposite of some junta nostalgics. Events such as the arrest and four-year imprisonment of Manolis Glezos, the arrest of the student of the Law student Vassilis Brakatsou in the movement of Cyprus, the murders of the fighters Gregory Lambraki and Sotiris Petroula, and of the great Nikiforos Mandiras, the imprisonment, the exile to Agios Stratis and Giaros, the torture of tens of thousands of fighters in the EAT-SH and in the notorious Bamboulina, with flagrant cases Alekos Panagoulis, Spyros Mustakis, Sakis Karagiorgas, Pericles Korovesis and many others, do not allow us to forget. A series of resistance acts existed before the revolt of the Polytechnic School, but they resonate for eternity, such as the attempt to murder the dictator Papadopoulos of Alekos Panagoulis. The funeral of Georgios Papandreou, who took an anti-trial character. Giorgos Seferis' message at the BBC. The self-sacrifice of the student Costas Georgakis in Matati Square, Genoa. The Navy Movement and the Graduation of Law in 1973. The songs of Mickey, Loizos, Leontis, the voice of Nikos Xylouris, who have covered the struggle of Greek youth during the dictatorship. All this does not allow us to forget and memorize today, like the Pan-Hellenic Liberation Movement, which, together with other resistance organisations, has made a decisive contribution to the denomination and international isolation of the junta. It was PASOK and Andreas Papandreou who established in 1981 the Polytechnic anniversary as a school-day feast, integrating the revolt of Greek youth against tyranny into collective memory. As followers of the University's worthy load, we must protect, but also defend democracy, public health and strengthen the links between social solidarity. At the Change Movement we honor the Polytechnic, fighting and expanding its demands today. Because the Polytechnic symbolizes resistance to authoritarianism and foreign dependence. Because it was crucial for his contribution to returning to normality and integration of democracy in the country. The vindication of the struggle goes through the creation of a democratic and socially just Greece, which will also be national sovereign, but also self-powered in modern conditions. Because this Greece deserves us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Nikos Karathanasopoulos is called in Stepma on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece. Until the Step was ready, I would say that Mr. Katrinis reminded me of something that said about how the world was resisting just before the critical day of 17 November. The newspapers then, of course, those that could be released, because they were afraid, had aroused the world. They hanged in the booths because they were afraid to read them and they had nice titles. I have now remembered a title of 'BRADUCIS', which, with its vulgar titles, wrote 'Only a solution to the voters'. People were reading it from the trolleys. In order not to prosecute the newspaper, as later prosecuted by "BRADY", he wrote "Only the voters" and with fine letters "Erim declared in Turkey". She was opposition then. Here you go, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Forty-seven years since the Polytechnic uprising. And it's not a museum anniversary, it's not just an opportunity to reflect, but it's a time for racing action. For that very reason, and from the Step of the House, we welcome the racing activities that have started since this morning in various parts of Greece, outside the US Embassy, outside the EAT-AS area, where we broke and broke the government ban. In this year's special circumstances due to the expansion of the pandemic, the Polytechnic's racing message becomes modern content in the struggle for the protection of our people's health, his life and his rights. The celebration of the Polytechnic, with all the necessary measures to protect public health, can and must be the continuation of the battle that the healthists, the working people's movement and our youth are doing every day in the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, through this process we can draw concrete conclusions on the imposition of the 1967 military dictatorship: He served in every way the interests of the then bourgeoisie against the people. He implemented the imperialist US and NATO plans, culminating in the coup d'état in Cyprus and the Turkish invasion and occupation. The main characteristic and official ideology of the dictatorship was anti-communism, confirming that authoritarian policies, anti-democratic policies, the attack on workers and the people goes hand in hand with anti-communism. It proved, of course, once again that the nature of the bourgeois power as a dictatorship of capital takes different forms. And all these forms seek to serve the interests of the bourgeoisie. And such a form was the dictatorship. Ladies and gentlemen, the slogan 'outside the US and NATO', which was dominated at the gates of the Polytechnic and which was forgotten or sought to be forgotten today - it is no coincidence that none of the previous positions mentioned the role of the Americans and NATO - today becomes even more important and topical, because there are these dangerous developments in our region. The policy of the bourgeoisie for the geopolitical upgrading of our country, a political choice to which both the New Democracy and SYRIZA and the Change Movement - PASOK agree, is a policy that concerns only the interests and the upgrading of the interests of our country's bourgeoisie and not our people. The transformation of Greece into economic, geopolitical and military hinges of the US and NATO does not guarantee the security of our people, does not guarantee the protection of our country's sovereign rights. It creates dangerous developments in the Eastern Mediterranean and in the wider region, it promotes tragedies and adventures for the peace and sovereign rights of the country. Today's anniversary for the forty-seven years since the Polytechnic Revolution actually finds our people in unprecedented conditions due to the pandemic and the tragic deadlocks caused by its administration. But this year's celebration will be different, but it will not be symbolic or much more musical. He was, he is, and he will be, a fighter, because they haven't found the demands of polytechnic fighters. And he's a agonist because he's going to be given an answer to the subtle effort that the government is making to load on the working people's responsibilities for spreading the virus. The problem is not the course within the pandemic, but specifically the course towards the American Embassy. From this point of view, and for that very reason, we condemn the authoritarian decision of the Government to ban the racing celebration of 17 November. The Greek Police Chief’s decision prohibiting public meetings of more than three persons throughout the country and for four days leads us to other times. This is a decision that is deeply undemocratic and unconstitutional, as the Union of Judges and Prosecutors has pointed out. It runs counter to Article 11 of the Constitution, which enshrines the constitutional right to a meeting and imposes, as a whole, the suspension of freedom of assembly and not just a local restriction. From this point of view, it runs counter to Article 48 of the Constitution, which imposes such general prohibitions only on siege and under strictly limited and definite conditions. That is why the decision of the Chief of Police cannot in any way be justified on the grounds of public health protection. Moreover, the labour and people's movement has shown in practice that all the necessary protection measures are taken in the mobilisations, and in this respect, democratic rights and freedoms are a conquest of the working people's movement. That is why the government has a huge responsibility for this development. Thus, it should have withdrawn that unacceptable decision already. Of course, it's never too late. The purpose of this decision is not to protect public health. And from this point of view, it is no coincidence that those who are supporting the government's anti-grassroots policies are all those who support the government's anti-government legislation. It is all those who are strongly attacking and committed to the health claims of workers, against apprenticeships, against anyone who claims to be essential measures to protect public health and the people. Because the government has the first and greatest responsibility for the outbreak of pandemic and for the burden of its consequences on the people. It is this government, which has for eight months rejected any legitimate request for substantial strengthening of the public health system. It is the one that adapts the protocols based on the needs of business groups. It is the one that maintains the conditions of crowding in public transport, in school classes with more than twenty-five students in each department. And it is the one that, at the same time as it says that the economy cannot withstand such measures to protect public health, it burdens business groups with warm money. So the struggles of the people and the workers are at the forefront. However, these games are neither suspended nor suspended or banned. And from this point of view, of course, we are not going to ask for the working class, our people and our youth to leave the government to mobilize, to protest, to strike. Ladies and gentlemen - and I conclude with this - the uprooting of the Polytechnic School and all the anti-dictatorial wrestling of the people and youth, the slogans and claims of the labour movement, have not found justice with the transition from the military dictatorship to civil parliamentary democracy. It turns out, therefore, that any conquests are temporary and are related to the correlation of forces. So, today what is embodied is that the focus of the need for the working people's movement is to form a victorious social alliance, which will fight against monopolies, imperialist associations, in the very outdated capitalist system. This is also the real way out which can be done for the benefit of the people. This struggle can and must also counteract anti-grassroots measures, defend rights, freedoms and public health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u9	Mrs Sophia - Haido Asmakopoulou, on behalf of the Greek Solution, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by saying that all of us in the Greek Solution would like to express our warmest condolences to the familiars of Giannis Metropoulou, an excellent doctor, a charismatic man and family who left early on. Young people's capacity to fight for values and ideals is timeless. Because democracy is not just a civilization. It's worth it. It's a way of life. It speaks of the consciousness of all citizens and is based on their action and behaviour in the context of a democratic state. Its founding stone is education. Education helps young people in particular to develop that quality which is appropriate to a democratic society, while being the only effective path to freedom. That is why it requires a high level of responsibility and maturity which cannot be conquered except by education at school, in the family and in the community. The development of the highest ideals means a better future for our country's progress. We must not forget that for the first time the Greeks established the assemblies of the municipality and laid the principles of the democratic culture. The sequentiality and isology are arrests of Greek. The courage, ethos, pride and determination of the new generation of our country are elements inherent in Hellenism. Respect for the high values of democracy, freedom, equality, our national independence, social justice speaks in the hearts of all Greeks and all Greeks and have the power to unite them. They are values of timeless and universal humanity within us. In our country, moreover, the idea of democracy was born which ensures equality and freedom of expression and requires constant vigilance for its security. There is a need for a treaty on the existence and functioning of freedom. The Greek youth, this chosen part of our people, is at the forefront of its protection and has been subjected to high ideals, with a view to a fair society. And an historic truth, which must be heard within the plenary Chamber, is that this uprising was the beginning of the end of the regime, but the American car regime in Ioannides followed it, since the Americans have given it the green light to betray our testimony and to this day continues to torture us. We do not forget the drama of our Cypriot brothers. The wounds of the greatest modern tragedy of Hellenism are still open and are still bleeding. Nowadays, the dark role of America at the expense of our Greece does not appear more than ever. And while our country is facing the challenges and direct threats to our national sovereignty from Turkey every day, the United States is questioning our sovereign rights which are being expelled from international law with a report from the State Department, which actually repeats arguments on the Turkish side. A few days have passed since the US refusal to confirm the Turkish infringements within the Greek airspace, stressing that Greece and the United States do not share the same view of the range of Greek airspace. The Greek people have learned to go beyond the crises and threats with national unity and unity. And this nowadays is translated into the need to motivate our youths, who are abroad, giving them the opportunities they deserve, in order to get back to their homeland that is more than ever in need. We must protect democratic institutions and ensure with constant vigilance that they function effectively and effectively. We must give priority to values that have been tested and endured the long course of our nation. We in the Greek Solution, with a deep sense of our historical responsibility, believe that it is our patriarchal duty to defend and shield the quality of our democratic culture and, at the same time, we have a moral obligation to defend and safeguard the goods of democracy and freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u11	The last speaker is Mr Claus Gregoriadis on behalf of Mera25. Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President of the Greek Chamber of Deputies, who honour us to be in plenary - underneath this time - ladies and gentlemen, I would ask all of you to be quick! You are thinking, as since last Friday afternoon - in our opinion, in our view, a Greek Parliamentary Group - our democracy is in serious danger. And it is at risk, since last Friday - the Minister of Government - I am supposed to say, if I may say so - of the Citizen's Protection, he has called on the Chief of Parliament's Group here, Mr Giannis Varoufakis and he has announced that if he and the other six Members of the Lekanoped are walking to Lefkanopod in the course of the Polytechnic - on the historic route - as all natural and unequivocal and self-evident right to do, at the same time doing exactly the quintousity of their parliamentary duties, they will be arrested. I am looking into the eyes of you all - Right, Centroons, Left - and I say to you that it is not a matter of a political party. It's not a matter of the Communist Party, if it were in our place. It would be a matter of the New Democracy, if it were in our place. It's a matter of our political system. We must make it clear once and for all that Members have constitutional rights, are guaranteed by the Constitution, and these are respected by all of us in all circumstances. Fortunately, this government has undertaken to restore the honour of the Minister of Maximos yesterday, Mr. Gerapetitidis, who, if I am not mistaken, is also a professor of Constitutional Law, in fact responsible, who clearly assured us that a mistake should have made by Mr. Chrysochoidis, that he must have escaped him, because he himself assured us and himself that all the MPs, regardless of party origin, can move around and do whatever they see as their duty. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Of course, Mr Chrysochoidis continued on the next day, and that is the worrying thing about our democracy, ladies and gentlemen. He went on to say this unprecedented - I would say - that if Mr Varoufakis or other Members of Parliament intellectualise to walk on the historic route, then they will be prostitutes - that is the word he used - they will trample their parliamentary vows. If this is not a clear reversal of reality, according to the Armenian origin French philosopher Bondriyar, then I really don't know what else it may be. Ladies and gentlemen, in November 1973 our leading youth undertook to wash away its national shame to a large extent almost non-existent resistance to the seven-year dictatorship of the colonists on the part of our society. What did the Greek society do in those seven years and did not resist, except for the most important ones - I must say, in agreement with the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement - but unfortunately very few exceptions? Because there were indeed exceptions, there was Panagulis, there was a handful of people in EBA and in Security. Among them I had the honour of being my ancestor, George Gregoriadis, the officer of the Navy. You had the honour of having Mrs. Papagiga and Mr. Pharakos among them. We had the honour of all together as the Left to have Mr Chronis Missios - I say, above all, people who have died, I beg your pardon - these unmistakable people. Mrs. Papariga is close to us and we all honor her every time we see her. These people - let's not be fooled in here - were few, they were counted on the fingers of both hands.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u13	That was the exception!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u14	It was the exception from the rule, it wasn't the rule. So what did Greek society do those seven years not resist? What did he do? What's going on? Did the colonists like Greek society and agree to the destruction of our democracy? Did he approve of the torture, displacement and murders of those people who disagreed? Did the mocks accept the social behavior of people? Not at all, ladies and gentlemen! Patience was made by our society, by patience and one mouth was “come back, ” to tell her. And when this educated mouth of her children opened, then almost coordinatedly opened, as the poet says, from everywhere mad mouths, mouths of workers, builders, peasants who went to the Polytechnic to bring their children together, so that the next people could come together. And then it happened - let me say - a small miracle. All these thousands of mouths that were there, but also the millions of others that were in houses, jobs, or in schools all became a mouth screaming from the depths of his soul, a slogan, "Psalm - Freedom". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall finish right away, Mr President. After eleven years of memorialism, ladies and gentlemen, I think that everyone in this Chamber should agree that this slogan is once again splendidly time-consuming. Forty-seven years after only one could add to the motto "Psami - Freedom" are only two words: "public health". And you know what, ladies and gentlemen? With this epidemic, with this pandemic sooner or later, we'll be over sometime. By privatising our health and education, by familiarising ourselves with depriving our freedom every day and above all with our compromise to the idea of a lack of bread for our neighbor, we will never end up. And you need to know one more thing, ladies and gentlemen: People's demands that have not been met for for forty-seven years have not been lost by this torture and long-lived expectation of them being fulfilled. On the contrary, their endurance to be formulated in a stubborn and persistent half-century now makes their final territory legally certain. Inevitably, as I like to say, our people will once have their bread, education and freedom, precisely because they are claimed with such passion and so patience. That is why we Merra25 MPs today will walk on the footsteps of the 1973 children, who have become grandparents and hope again at a meeting in the future races on the streets, at a meeting of all generations and of all political shades, at a meeting that will wake up and raise again the occasion of our society, which unitedly devours the yoke of our parasitic oligarchy at last. Then and only then will the road to our bread, education and freedom be opened. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, the report of 17 November on the Polytechnic uprising was completed. I would ask here that we keep a minute of silence in memory of the fighters and the victims of the Polytechnic and Democracy. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Their memory is eternity! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, by interpreting both the wishes and feelings of the President of this House and of all the Members of the Bureau, I thank you for the high level of today's debate. We will be interrupting for ten minutes, so that the Chamber can be settled before entering the agenda for the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Before entering the debate, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Wednesday 18 November 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 150/10-11-20 is a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Eitolokarnania, of New Democracy, Spilios Levanos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘The risk of exclusion of farmers from the notified aid for edible Kalamata olives’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 152/13-11-2020 topical question by SYRIZA MP Korinthias - Progressive Alliance Mr. Georgios Psychoyou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Supporting the price of lemons on the market and protecting against thefts in production and equipment for Corinthian farmers". 3. Under No 148/9-11-2020, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Eotolokarnania, of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of the risk of exclusion from financial aid for Koroni olive producers. 4. Under number 162/16-11-2020, a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The government grants 3 million euros for the koronia to fur farms". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 169/16-11-2020 by Mr Spilios Levanou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on "Re-establishment of the Department for the Management of the Cultural Environment and New Technologies in Agrinio". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Mr Kritonas Arseni, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, referred to the following question: 'Exclusion of pupils from education, on the basis of income criteria'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A single debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Applementary measures for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2019/1150 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the promotion of fair treatment and transparency for business users of online mediation services (L 186), arrangements for the Interservice Market Control Unit, the Competition Committee, the functioning of the market and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 11 November 2020 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, on articles and amendments. In particular, in the organisation of the debate, it is proposed that, apart from the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives, as well as the Ministers involved in the physical presence, we add two courses of speakers to this debate by teleconferencing via the WEBEX platform. Each cycle will include twelve speakers with the following analogy: five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the KKE, one from the Greek Solution and one from the Mera25. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u18	The House has agreed. Before I give the floor to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Kyridis, I would like to tell the speakers who will have already checked the electronic media they will contact, their laptops or mobile phones so that some arrhythmias are not presented when they are connected. They'll figure out they'll talk six, seven minutes, with a tolerance. Mr Khiridis, I am sorry, before I give you the floor, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, because there is a special reason today, the Minister for Development will speak first, Mr Georgiadis. The Minister has the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u19	First of all, Mr President, thank you. Secondly, I apologise to colleagues. I am never ahead of the speakers. Yes, I like to hear the conversation. But, luckily, today I have to leave in an hour for the trip to Abbu Dhabi with the Prime Minister. At 13:30, we fly, so I have to leave no later than 12:15 to catch up. That is why I shall precede to say what Mr Papathanassis and Mr Dimas have to say and then will be here with Mr Dimas, who will continue and close the debate. So thank you very much for understanding. I'm getting into the bill a little quick. Although we have had an in-depth debate within the committee, I will repeat, because here we are a plenary, both for the Minutes and for those who are watching us, what is this bill doing about it? The core of the bill is the European Union regulation for large companies that produce web search services, large platforms. What we are also putting in place in the regulation and which we believe is going in an extremely pro-business direction and in favour of small businesses is that we are giving business associations the right to go into collective actions against these platforms if system platforms and, if you wish, as a product of unfair competition they are trampled or believe that their business interests are being violated. To date, such actions could only be done by themselves. However, we thought that because most of these platforms are real giants, they are very large and that electronic commerce is now gaining even more importance in the midst of COVID, but also because most likely the consumer pages will still be channelled after COVID through more electronic commerce to a very large extent, the order of ranking that takes you out can be a market criterion. I'll make it schematically for the world that sees us. Today you go and rent a store on the busy streets, such as Hermos or Bucharest. In e-commerce, the corresponding Ermos and the corresponding Bucharest is when you google and look for if product, your business reaches your own e-shop on a relatively high page. Because if it comes after five hundred pages, you can actually not get to buy from you. The platforms must therefore have a clear policy and public knowledge, based on which algorithm and on what logic they rank the order of companies in the case of the search, so that companies can again choose whether they will adapt to this policy, whether they will pay the same advertising or not they care about it. In any case, however, this should be clean for everyone, so that the market can function widely. So to be sure that this is the case in this new digital world, we are making this change and we add the possibility of collective actions so that if some of these companies for reasons of their own commercial practice collectively violates the rights of a branch, some companies, some chambers, some bodies, they can defend their rights in the courts. The second part of the bill relates to several complementary regulations of the first, namely e-commerce and e-commerce, where the EMEA - which we have built together a few months ago and which already operates quite successfully - can impose fines and control e-commerce in the way it controls the natural shops, so that in the digital world the control of the General Secretariat of Consumers through the Ministry of Development can also be extended to the digital world. The third part of the bill is a series of provisions concerning the Independent Competition Authority. What we are basically doing here is accepting the request from the President and the board of directors of the Authority, who have given us the following problem: When the Competition Committee was first first set up, the resource that was set up, that is to say, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 2, 1, 1, 2, 2, 2, 3, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, But, above all, through the economic crisis that followed, and the change in corporate forms that many entrepreneurs have decided on for various reasons of convenience or of tax benefit, this material has now been reduced to about 4.5 million. The difference from 12 to 4.5 million creates for the Independent Competition Authority a serious operating problem. The amount that it has, the resource at its disposal, is in fact enough to cover only the costs of payroll and nothing more. So let's go to the debate on how we can fix this, but without it appear that the state will somehow hold the Competition Committee hostage. We must say this: I, as a competent Minister, supervise the Independent Competition Authority, but I cannot control the Independent Competition Authority, and I cannot go into it because for reasons that we all understand is an independent authority. If each minister could enter into the first place, you can understand what the ministers would have done, but what would have happened on the market. To be sure, therefore, that this cannot be done, we are bringing an amendment which says that the President of the Authority in question at his request will be able to receive an exceptional state grant from the State budget to the extent that he is missing from the resource of 1 million to the public limited companies so that he can complete this amount from the state budget. I would remind you that we also had a disagreement, a debate, in the committee which we have corrected, precisely so that there is no misunderstanding about our availability to intervene at the beginning. The initial thought of the Ministry of Finance was to be "constructed" the opinion. We made it'simply opinion', a documented simple request, so that in reality every time the authority judges that it needs this money up to this ceiling we have said, it can ask for this money from the state budget to be hired to get computers so that it can better fix the way it works. We also have two provisions in the bill, which have caused a little more fuss and which I would like to analyse a little more. One provision concerns the possibility of operating Sunday shops in areas of up to five thousand inhabitants. I stress that there are five lines to change to the article already in force. This is Article 2a in all 18, which you have in your hands and which in fact says that only small and medium-sized enterprises with a turnover of up to 1.5 million and up to nine employees can legally open on Sundays by decision of the Minister of Development. For what businesses, then, do we actually legislate? We're lawmaking mini-markets, pastry stores, ovens, for these kinds of businesses. Why did we say we were doing this? Because in many areas of the country, particularly in small villages and towns, precisely because many of these businesses were operating, but without the permission of the Vice-President concerned, the agencies are constantly fined there. So we're doing it to cover up these operations. And because there was a mistake in the press at first and a great deal of trouble, I stress that this is not about establishing a general opening-up of all stores on Sundays by a simple decision of the Minister of Development. The article applies, as has been the case so far. The only change is the possibility of operating in areas, in cities of up to five thousand inhabitants, and it concerns only companies with a turnover of up to 1.5 million and up to nine employees, namely small businesses. I think that these clarifications have brought to light the concerns of the trading world. If there are any changes from Mr SYRIZA's colleague, I have no objection to waiting for them if you give them to me and see if I can accept them or not before I leave. In the draft law, we also have another amendment that has raised less noise on the people's markets. Today the people's markets run from Monday to Saturday and they have the day off on Sunday. However, this led to misunderstandings about Sunday markets in various parts of the country, where there was very great discernment among them again. So we unify it and say it: People's markets operate six days a week. The local market operators on their own now will co-decide on the day of their day if they want to be their day off on Sunday or if they want to be their day off on Friday, Saturday, Thursday, Wednesday, Wednesday, Tuesday, Monday. So he moves six days, always leaving a day off, depending on the decision of the municipalities, who license this popular market. In this way, we are giving a flexibility so that again we can avoid situations that have arrived at the Ministry of Trade and which locally cause very serious trouble, I think without a particular reason. I now come to the amendments at the beginning of the Ministry of Development, in order to await your questions, which I would be very happy to answer before leaving because I have the journey. First of all, I would like to say on the Minutes that I certainly accept all the ministerial amendments. We have amendments from both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Interior and an amendment from the Ministry of Sport. In general, I accept all the ministerial amendments. For the ministerial amendments made by the other ministries, each minister will come to speak during the meeting and each minister will explain why he is making the amendment proposed. I shall now speak to you about the amendments made by the Ministry of Development and Investment. Article 1, inclusion of public investment budgets for the year 2021 in a major category of fiscal classification, amendment of Article 55 of Law 4270/2014 and Article 2, supplementary State budgets, which upload by EUR 900 million the co-financed part of the Public Investment Programme. Both articles are accounting for the proper functioning of the Public Investment Programme. I don't think they have any special fuss. With Article 3 - there can be disagreement from some aspects of Parliament - we are accepting an amendment that we have brought together with the Ministry of Transport and Communications to allocate an additional amount from the Public Investment Programme to enhance investment by the transport operators 'KEEL S.A.' and 'KEEL' under Law 2963/2001. What's this about? The 2001 Act was intended to provide the State with EUR 45 million in the coming years towards the renewal of the KEL fleet. In this amount it was pending to give 22 million. These 22 million, therefore, are now establishing to give them to the KELs in the coming years for the renewal of their fleet. It is, in fact, a measure that we have decided to activate. I don't want to say anything different. We could have done it before COVID. However, in COVID, trying to find tools to help this sector, which has also received a very great blow, mainly because of the drop in tourism and the internal market, obviously, but also because of the quarantine days due to the stoppage of all travels and routes, it is an indirect way of trying to help this industry also to move in this very great difficulty. With Article 4, composition of the National Research and Technology and Innovation Council, the famous ESETEC, we add four more members mainly to the research areas. What for? As you have seen, ESETEC plays an increasingly important role in the decisions of the Ministry of Development and Investment and Government in general because we are giving much greater weight to research and technology. So we were asked by the ESRBE itself to supplement it with additional members, so that they could do more of their work. As the suggestion from the ESIB has been made, this is what we bring and legislate. Article 5 - is what we talked about with Mr Haritsis - it is something quite typical, but old history. At the central building of the Ministry of Development, at 5-7, two floors - while the entire building is leased by the Ministry of Development and Investment - they are assigned to the Ministry of Finance. This created an accounting issue in services as to whether it is legal to pay the rents the Ministry of Development for the two floors, which belong to the Ministry of Finance, which is hosted - in a sense - to the Ministry of Development. With Article 5, then, we declare that the Ministry of Development pays the rent referred to in the Ministry of Finance, that is to say pays all the floors of Victory 5-7. This is simply so that the services are not concerned. Article 6 has to do with COVID. We give the opportunity to hold the general meeting of shareholders or partners of any legal person or legal entity by teleconferencing. I don't have to explain why. I think it's absolutely obvious. At the time of the quarantine now, because the quarantine has lasted much, many companies had postponed general assemblies. But since the pandemic is too long, the companies are not beginning to have serious problems. So we allow them to do so by teleconferencing so that the possibilities for decision-making by the board of directors are not stuck. Let's go to Article 7 now. This article was born from a fruitful debate that we had with Mr Katrin in the debate on the articles in the committee and I thank him. When the issue was raised on that day by a post from the "CORDER THEMA", it became known that the Directorate-General of the Consumer had identified increases in some products, absurd, excessive increases, just the day the lockdown was announced. Unfortunately, there was a case where a specific supermarket chain came up when the Prime Minister's decision was made that we would have a lockdown on Saturday. I would like to make it very clear that I am in favour of the free market. I don't like the price cuts of this type, I mean speaking ideologically. However, the free market presupposes that the market operates. When the state intervenes and by order closes the market - so these stores remain, above all, without great competition, because competitors have closed down - then what free market are we talking about? Then there is no free market. Here you have shut down the competitors, and so if you leave them without any control, you risk the free market and its laws, in the absence of competition, to go too high. We are therefore in the process of establishing this. I read it so you know what we're doing. Since there is still a direct risk of the spread of the coronary, the lack of which is confirmed by a decision of the Minister for Health, and yet not beyond 28 February 2021, we will see there what will have happened, I cannot afford it - it is forbidden to sign up or receive any benefits, relating to the sale of any good or service necessary for the health, nutrition, movement and safety of the consumer, and in particular pharmaceutical products, personal protective equipment and personal hygiene, such as surgical masks, antiseptic fluids and other disinfectants, if these benefits exceed the value of the provision - see now - so that the gross margin of profit is greater than the corresponding margin before 1 September 2020 for those products and services. So what do we say? We're saying I'm not putting a price on it. The valuation always has the following risk. If the prices of imported goods rise, either there will be a black market, or we will stop importing and there will be deficiencies. We're doing something else. We did it in March and it worked very well. We say, for example, "Mr. Georgiadis, you were selling this product in September. In September, on the basis of the purchase invoice and the sale price, you had a gross margin of profit, say, 20%. Very good. And now you can have 20%. What can't you have? You can't have 30%, you can't have 40%, you can't have 50%. If you have more than your margin of profit then, we can impose a fine on you and we will fine you." We want businesses to make a profit. We do not want businesses to have trade damage. We do not want to import products for the sake of the state alone. We understand that they should work themselves and pay the workers, their obligations and everything. But at the moment the profit - being clean among us - cannot be greater than they would normally have. Otherwise, it will be like taking advantage of the quarantine event and I do not want anyone to think he will play with the calamity of the Greek people. The Greek people are going through a disaster, just like all humanity and we must take care of that. Most people, the vast majority of people in supermarkets, have shown very great responsibility and have not made such increases. This has happened in only one case. I do not want to mention the name of the chain, because let us say that it was wrong, by mistake. But I want consumers to know that we're on top. We are now following it, following the vote on this amendment - which I hope will also have wider cross-party support - we will also have the instrument to impose a fine on the person who violates it. Two more amendments will come along, which are en route. I would particularly like to mention Article 6 of the Interior Ministry's amendments, because I had announced it to you. I asked her, too. I read it: The term of office of the administrative boards and of the other institutions of the cultural, sporting, charitable and clubs established and operated in accordance with Article 78 of the Civil Code, when the exceptional public health protection measures are in force as long as there is no risk of further spreading the coronary and, in the meantime, no antiquities have been carried out to promote new statutes, shall be extended from the date of expiry until 31/12-20. That is, until the end of the year is an extension. We say by joint decision of the Ministers for Health, Home Affairs and the relevant Minister, the term of office of the boards of directors of the other institutions may be extended for up to four months, since there is still a risk that the coronary will be dispersed. In other words, we shall automatically go until 31 December, and if quarantine and measures are still in force, the relevant ministers will be able to extend up to four months further. Why is that so? It's for obvious reasons. No elections can be held in all these clubs. Since elections cannot be held, there has been too much malfunction in some of them. They questioned legal decisions of the boards, there was a problem with bank accounts and so on. So that there is not all of this, then, we are clear that there can be no elections under these circumstances. It'll happen when the pandemic conditions allow it. The following amendments will still be made: First, from Mr Dimas, it is an amendment that completes the transfer of the land, 'Thess INTEC'. I would remind you that the "Thess INTEC" is a very large space for research and technology, where we have announced that it is built in Thessaloniki in collaboration with the "Alexandria Innovation Zone" and the urban non-profit company "Thess INTEC", where it aims to approach a very nice area near the airport, very large technology companies, to build a space, a stem, an innovation centre in Thessaloniki. The last step of this transfer will be the amendment which will shortly come as to how the land is granted by the Ministry of Finance to the body implementing the 'Thess INTEC'. I shall read to you the second amendment: ‘Section C, paragraph 7 of Article 96 of Law 4497/2017 is replaced by the following: The deadlines for this paragraph in respect of chambers in civil non-profit companies whose execution is pending shall be extended until 31 December 2019 until the end of these works or programmes in which case the solution of these companies shall be reached in accordance with Article 238 of Law 4610/2019’. That extension may in any event not exceed 31 December 2021. I say this for Mr Haritsi because they also concern his own initiatives in the past. They're chamber development companies, which have started works. Because of COVID -19 too much was stopped and could not be consistent - Cyclades and others, you know - by the dates that were committed. We're giving them another year so they won't block the programs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u20	Can we have it, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u21	We'll get them for you. I can give you the paper now, but the amendment will be here in a moment. Because I'm going to give it to you. The amendment will be here in due course. Another amendment by my Deputy Minister, Mr Papathanassis, where he deals with an issue that existed in terms of the functioning of ENTERPRISE GREECE and the evaluation by ENTERPRISE GREECE of the investments relating to RND. I would like your attention here, because this amendment is very important. It's about you, too, Christo. What's happened? Mr Haritsis, please listen very much, because I would also like your opinion on this. A large investment of several million has come to be evaluated by ENTERPRISE GREECE as a strategic investment. However, this investment is oriented to the RND, in a specialist - the medicine - research of pharmaceutical technology. ENTERPRISE GREECE states that he does not have the technical capacity to establish the scientific background - let's say so - of this investment, nor could he legally hire someone else to do this to him. We now give ENTERPRISE GREECE the right to assign the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology, when it considers that the investment it has in front of it is about scientific issues which it does not have the technical competence to judge it, to instruct the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology, which indeed has the staff - because it is their basic job - to do the evaluation, to send after its findings to ENTERPRISE GREECE in terms of the scientific aspect, and then ENTERPRISE GREECE, which then controls the economic part of the proposal, that is to say, what it can do anyway. Since this was not clear to date in the law, ENTERPRISE GREECE had tried to give this delegation. The GDR officials, however, did not know whether this would be legal. So that there is no dissatisfaction with the services, whether this is legal or not, we are bringing the relevant amendment. I repeat to understand what we're doing. When it comes as a request to join the Act on Strategic Investments, i.e. the Fast track to say it simply, an investment involving a RND, ENTERPRISE GREECE, will be able to entrust the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology to judge the scientific part of this investment. The General Secretariat will respond within a specific timeframe to ENTERPRISE GREECE that this part is true and scientifically given, and after ENTERPRISE GREECE will continue its assessment of the economic parameters if the money and everything it does to all the others have been invested. So we will have approval or rejection of this investment. That is the amendment. Mr. Papathanassis, I am referring to yours, which of course I accept is understood. After all, this is your first legislative initiative, Mr Papathanassis, and I wish you well. These are all our amendments. I'm waiting a little longer if there's any questions I can answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u22	Will you bring a dozen more by night, Minister? What are these things, Mr President? This is a parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u23	Wait a minute. The Minister won't leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u24	We didn't say he was leaving. That's not what we said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u25	Would you like some clarification in the amendments? He's here. Another of the ministers who signed the amendments may be able to answer your questions, it is well. If not, the Minister will be here for a few minutes and say which amendment to give clarification, because he will be leaving. Now we're changing the show a little bit. Wait a minute. Mr. Katrinis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, let me tell you the truth, I expected you to start your speech with a placement for today's anniversary, but I'm going straight to the bill. You know that I am making a strong criticism of you, but I really want to applaud your quick reflexes on the subject we discussed on Thursday and on the subject of Article 7 of the amendment that we are discussing. But let me draw your attention to the wording as it is. While you say that it is necessary for health, nutrition, movement, safety, then continue and say: "In particular, medicinal products, antiseptics, fluids and disinfection materials". I would suggest that it be added as a legislative improvement either to remove the 'particularly' and to add the word 'basic foodstuffs', or to add the word 'food products' after 'particularly'. Because here it seems that while you are generally including nutrition in the species covered by the amendment, then you specialize only in antiseptics and medicinal products. Since I am right to interpret your intention to include food, I would say that it should be introduced as a legislative improvement and that means to make this regulation sound and correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Bukouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me a very brief report. All Greek citizens understand that this year's meaning of the Polytechnic is to be healthy and next year, to celebrate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u29	I would ask you to do this in your main speech, of course, if you wish, although the matter was exhausted this morning. Now only questions about the amendment, because otherwise we will never finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u30	If there's a place for the Polytechnic, we'll all talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u31	In any case, I agree with you that it will take place during our basic positions. Minister, the specific amendment you are bringing here is certainly not an attempt to pragmatize. However, I would like to stress that this is an amendment of great importance, because we are really at war, and the government lays down the rules of this war. Honestly, there are cases - and they have also been recorded by the press - unreasonable appreciations of basic goods since the banned measures were announced. However, they are of great importance, Minister, these decisions and, in particular, this amendment, because we are in an extraordinary situation and that is what comes to regulate. Historically, if I had made an approach, I would say that if they had operated in the same way at the time of the change of currency in the euro, at the famous time of rounding, if such ministerial decisions were adopted at that time, prices would not have escaped. And you remember - there's been an excavation of that time - that we slept with the honor of a parsley masquerade of 50 drachmas and we woke up 50 minutes, which meant 170 drachmas. Such decisions and legislative initiatives and amendments come to regulate things in exceptional circumstances, such as the one we are living today. I would remind you of this historical precedent because we all know that when prices escape and get another starting-up basis, higher, whatever reasonable reductions to follow, we will never reach the previous price levels. That is why I say that your amendment today is very important. The second thing I would like to ask you is whether the opening up of the shops concerns all areas under the five thousand inhabitants or only the tourist areas. Indeed, for the tourist regions, it makes sense, but if you wish, I will conclude with that, Mr President, for the regions of less than five thousand inhabitants, and not even interest in such businesses, because they are not of business. In non-purpose areas of less than five thousand inhabitants, the shops are, anyway, smaller turnovers and fewer workers. As a result, for the tourist regions, this amendment is important for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u32	Please, Mr. Haritsis, take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Mr President, what I would like to say is that it concerns you and the Minister. I understand. We've lived through them, too. We've been through it. I understand the extraordinary obligations, travels that may exist abroad. It's understandable. But on the other hand, we are talking about a bill which is not within the competence of the Deputy Minister, neither the Deputy Secretary but the Minister. This is not personal reproach to anyone. To God. But to know what the bill we're discussing is. I think a plenary sitting should have been set on a day on which the Minister can be present in order to be able to have a substantial debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u34	Okay, it's gonna be the deputy. He knows the issues. Mr. Papathanase reads all the legislations of the similar ministries.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u35	It is a practice that does not help quarantine with Parliament to fail. I think there should also be care from the Bureau so that at least a substantial debate can be held on the bills when they come to Parliament. On the other hand, I should like to say a word about the amendment to which the Minister for Development referred. In fact, there are provisions in this amendment which we are dealing with positively. The Minister mentioned some of them, such as the floors of the Ministry of Development, for example, such as the 'Thess INTEC', which is a provision that we see positive. Let us also see the question raised by the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy for the exception from the Public Procurement Act and for the evaluation essentially. But in the same amendment, unfortunately, there are also provisions with which we disagree. It would be a good thing if there were a separation so that we could also vote in favour of provisions which are really positive. Unfortunately, we don't see that. We will then talk about it, of course, because we will be placed in detail for each of these provisions. Mr President, let me say that we in the committee tabled an amendment which we consider to be politically important. I'll tell them in my speech. Then, indeed, the chairman of the committee accused us of bringing an amendment to an unrelated bill. We see today what is happening. Amendments are being tabled by other ministries, at the last minute, and many delays are coming. We expect further amendments to come from both the Ministry of Development and other ministries until tonight. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. This is useful, but it is also the oral presentation and another that you have the written text so that you can consider an amendment to the substance. I believe that this procedure is now definite in Parliament's plenary procedure. On the substance of the matter, I shall speak in my speech, but I shall now say it because the Minister is not going to leave any moment. We expect the Government and the Minister responsible to be placed on the amendment we have tabled to the committee and which will shortly be supported by the health officer of SYRIZA Andreas Xanthos in relation to the publicity of the Committee on Infectious Substances. It's very critical. It's a matter of transparency. It is a question of informing citizens and we are waiting for a clear answer from the government on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u37	The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u38	Thank you. This is no way to legislate. Once again, I had spoken on this issue since July 2019 and with the amendments that were legally coming from the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, but lastly. I am not considering the positive or non-positive content. I look at the slut and the impossibility of carrying out serious parliamentary work. The committee has been open for the last week for the bill. The plenary was to meet today and we have known about it for so long. The government knows that, mostly. There is no reason to do what we have heard today, to present us with amendments that have not been tabled. I must stress it for whatever value it is. The country's issues are different. But we as parliamentarians have to say this, especially those who have experience in this Chamber and have heard many, many and many. Are we at times of memorials and programs that had to be implemented? Is that why the bulk of the amendments came? Oh, no. We are in a phase of normality, from a legislative point of view. As much as the pandemic has created the problems it has created, the government must have them properly taken care of, especially when it comes to amendments to the Ministry's own legislative initiative. That's not a situation. And it is bad on the part of the government that, while exercising this policy, has this tactic in relation to legislative work, it is not placed on the amendments to counter-population, which attaches importance to the Chamber. We made an intervention for what has happened in Crete with the last flood that threw people into misery and said that this area should be treated like others. Does that not belong to the priorities? Have the people there been settled? It doesn't belong? I would also like to say to you, Mr President, by closing that in New Heraklion, which happened because of climate change, a really strange disaster - we had a problem on a road and we had no problem on the other side - the government intervened immediately, it is assumed. He didn't do anything. And after a month, there's not even been the delimitation of the affected area. Not to be compensated. Isn't that an emergency? We want you to place yourself, as you ask us to put us in your amendments which come with an insult to the Rules of Procedure of the House and the Chamber, since this, in any case, has a legal standard at the bottom of the scripture and we cannot raise issues like this. We call on you to put yourself in the amendments to counterpopulation tabled in due course, such as ours.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u40	Wait a minute, Mr. Catarini. Mr Minister, please give us a minute to speak about the amendment, and I would ask you to reply to the Members' questions. The Minister will also clarify the amendments he has tabled and which of the two parliamentary amendments he will accept. No growth, please, Mr. Catherine. I give you the floor because you have forgotten the question you wanted to ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u41	Mr Minister, you remember that a month ago we voted as a Movement to change the provisions on 'January'. We call for the same relief provisions that apply to the victims of the "Jan" to apply to the inhabitants of Crete, to specific municipalities affected. So we think it goes without saying that the government will be placed in this amendment today, which is still fresh and will not wait a month for it to take the legislative initiative. It's an emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u42	Mr Villardo, you have the floor for clarifying the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u43	Just one clarification. I wasn't here, I don't know if you answered it. If you've answered that, you'll tell me. It concerns the reduction of rents for November, something we naturally do not agree with. It is not a liberal measure, nor is it, in fact, a higher taxation of owners of immovable property. Here you reduce the rent by 40% in November for owners and support 50% the reduction of this rent for property owners. Does this support of 50% concern only private or legal persons, i.e. companies that have real estate?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u44	I think, Mr. Villardo, that this is why Mr. Vesiropoulos will be here to answer, but in any case, if the Minister can...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u45	It's the Minister, it's in his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u46	Mr Minister, please say what amendments you will be accepting from the Members of Parliament. Or if you look back and answer Mr. Papathanase, colleagues will know that. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u47	First of all, I would like to say a great thank you to Mr Haritsi. I am sick of hearing and reading statements from SYRIZA officials that I am the Minister without competence. Today Mr. Haritsis has made a full analysis of the fact that there can be no debate on the bill, because it is my responsibility. Thank you very much, Mr Haritsis, for recognising it. Now we're going to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, listen. Mr Loverdo, I respect the text of the amendments. I could not have mentioned them at all, because the responsibilities for Thess INTEC and the responsibilities for the 'ENTERPISE GREECE', the two present ministers have it, since we are talking about competences. So these amendments which have not been formally tabled - I already distribute the text to you, it is a matter of bureaucratic procedure to reach the protocol number, and you have this amendment in your hand - will be developed by the relevant ministers who are here. But if you tell me that you want us not to give the Chambers the extension to do their work, to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u48	Don't give up on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u49	No, if you'd like, I'd like to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u50	These are triples!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u51	You should know there'll be five chambers closed if it doesn't pass. And the layout, you know, is also a COVID device. So it's absolutely urgent.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u52	Don't give up on that. That's another thing I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u53	Don't interrupt, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u54	I would like to say again, as far as all the others are concerned, that Mr Haritsis is right to judge me. I, Mr Haritsis, was at all the committee meetings, both in the first and in the institutions and in the second. I participated throughout the whole conversation. I did not show any sympathy to Parliament and to the debate on this bill, otherwise. I was all over the conversation. I was not replaced by anyone, but I was from the beginning to the end at all the meetings. And our amendments, I have already mentioned them and developed them in committee. I haven't brought any new ones. What I told you today is things I have already developed in committee. As far as the main body of the bill is concerned, I believe that with you and the honourable Members we have had an in-depth debate on the two issues that caused fuss because the rest of the bill has no fuss. All right, there was an emergency trip to Abu Dhabi. What can we do now? Shouldn't the Minister of Investment and Development go to Abbu Dhabi, which we have to do, as we believe and hope, with many hundreds of millions of investment? Is that now a reason for us to make this type of criticism? I, as the Minister responsible, as you rightly pointed out, have made a full reference to the House - and so I had to - in discussions that lasted several hours in committees. I've been here since this morning. We had a postponement of the opening due to the anniversary of the Polytechnic and the festivities previously held. That's what we understand is creating a problem of time after flying the plane. It's not my will. I'm here if you have any objections to the bill. I told you I'd answer you until the last minute for everything. In the amendments I have not explained, the Ministers responsible are here and I have explained them as much as I can. And I repeat that they are amendments without any political risk. They have no political conflict. It's technical. Parliament's amendments will not be accepted. As far as the urgency of the nature you said is concerned, the Ministry of Finance comes with an amendment to the theories, and it also covers this case. The Minister will tell you when he speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u55	No, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u56	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u57	You'll tell him when he comes, ladies and gentlemen. It's the responsibility of another ministry, what do we do? I have competence, but I don't have all the responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u58	But it doesn't cover it. He doesn't cover it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u59	You will tell the Minister of Finance if he comes, who has the initiative for what you are saying. It's not my initiative and you'll tell him whether he's covering or not. He thinks he's covering, you say something else. We'll see. His criticism of whether the government is moving quickly on the subject of the natural disasters is completely unjust. All the actors in Thessaly, the district director, the mayor, the municipal councillors, the boardlors, the presidents of the Bank of Carditsa, the presidents of the trade associations, the chambers - Mr. Loverdos, have you not heard them? - they have said of an unprecedented speed of the Greek state, which has never happened in history.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u60	What are you talking about? We are MPs in Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u61	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u62	The criticism must be right and must not be unjust. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis in the case of the gods is moving at an unprecedented speed. At the same unprecedented speed we moved to Samos and at the same unprecedented speed we are already moving to Crete. The mechanism we have created, which is for the 'January', but also for every naturality from now on, enables the state to move at unprecedented speeds. You know that. You are an experienced parliamentary, more experienced me. You know that. Don't make a fuss where we don't have to. We accept all the ministerial amendments. We're not accepting MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u63	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I have staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u64	But we're not gonna end this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u65	I have staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u66	Let me tell you, the Rules of Procedure stipulates. They are explained by the Minister when he asks for clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u67	I want the floor on a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u68	Wait a minute. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u69	How's it going to happen? I have staff. She made me a recommendation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u70	Unless we're talking about procedure. That's another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, I have staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Loverdo, I'm saying this. There were questions. Explanations were given. What does the diagnoser need now? Everything else you will tell in your main speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u73	I have staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u75	I'll give each of you a minute. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u76	Thank you. I have a personal issue, Mr President, I am never wrong in this House - at least I fight it - and I never say absurd things. Is it recommendation to me to observe what has been said and to be held responsible? I do not accept it, and I consider it a personal insult. Because we're North Division MPs. In New Heraklion, you were elected, as I am elected. Are you sure the state mechanism worked? I tabled a timely question yesterday why nothing has worked, as I was informed by Mr Baballos, the mayor of the new Heraklion. I don't understand. Why is my criticism unfair? Get it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Haritsis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, first of all, the questions of competence must be resolved by the members of the government and the Ministry. The Minister has responsibility for trade and industry. A bill has this competence and, unfortunately, it has not been possible to find a day in which it can be supported in plenary. The question of investment could well, since the Deputy Minister has the power to accompany the Prime Minister on his trip to the United Arab Emirates. But I come to the serious, Mr President. The Minister has not explained to us why he does not accept the parliamentary amendment which we tabled on the issue of the publicity of the Committee on Infectious Substances' practices. It is a huge issue, a political issue, which concerns the entire Greek people. It is a question of transparency and information and we are waiting for a convincing explanation, because it refuses to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u80	Minister, the Rules of Procedure here - for the record I am saying this - has a void and the Minister does not need to justify them. But my personal view is that in any case there must be a brief statement. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u81	I leave my remit. These don't matter, they're gossip. Thank God, I have many responsibilities, and most of all I have very much love for Mr Papathanassis, and so we can and we can work together as we should. As far as the amendment is concerned, first of all - I will come to you later, Mr Loverdos - on the parliamentary amendment tabled by SYRIZA on the publication of the minutes of the Committee on Infectious Substances. I imagine you realize that this is certainly not my responsibility. This is an amendment which, if it had to be submitted to a Minister, would go to the Minister for Health to reply, which, if you wish, is supervised. So I can't accept it. If you want to submit it either as a topical question to the Minister of Health and ask him why it does not make it public, I cannot answer that. Mr. Loverdo, the last person he'd want to offend you is me. I talked about our speed in Carditsa, Samos and Crete. I didn't mention New Heraklion, if you see. The destruction of New Heraklion is not that size, to put it in its true dimension. No relationship between the destruction of Karditsa or the destruction of Samos or the destruction of Crete with what took place in New Heraklion. In New Heraklion, we had a very rare one - we hope it will remain rare with climate change not to become more frequent - a phenomenon where one road was damaged and the other road was not, where one shed on one side was demolished and on the other hand there was nothing wrong with it. My information is that there is already a record of these losses and we are going on with compensation. You're saying something else. You have my commitment and as a North Sector MEP I will look into it more thoroughly. My information is that we are already on record through the Attica mechanism for the payment of compensation. In any case, I would not be in the mood to offend you. But as far as our disagreement on the two amendments which are of the two Ministers is concerned, I think they can also be supported in my absence. They have enough to do with it. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u82	We're entering the speeches.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, I would like the floor for ten seconds before the Minister leaves.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u84	No, Mr. Haritsi. He answered. I told you what the Rules of Procedure says. He'll need to answer again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u85	I had a minute and I talked 50 seconds ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u86	Let me tell you how much did you talk to? Two minutes. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u87	The Minister is right when he says that the parliamentary amendment tabled by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group is not a matter for him. That's true. It's the Minister of Health's responsibility. I understand that the Minister has to leave for a trip abroad. I don't know if there's been a discussion and consultation with the Minister of Health. As the Head of Health of SYRIZA has come, however, on this major issue of placing and arguing on why this amendment should be accepted, I think that the Minister for Health must also come and prove to us why this amendment is not accepted, which in these critical days is very important for the whole of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u88	In any case, Mr Contozamanis has said that he will come to support the amendment and that is where you will be given the opportunity to reply. All the ministers who have made amendments cannot come at the same time. The rapporteurs will now be given the floor. Mr. Catherides has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you twice for the correct version of my last name. Ladies and gentlemen, we will discuss the bill. Before entering into its essence, although most and certainly the most interesting, we have already been analysed by the Prime Minister responsible, allow me three - four preliminary remarks on what has been heard. Firstly, to the dear Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement, because I too happen to be a member of the Northern Sector, and because it is difficult for the Mayor of Heraklion, the dear friend Nikos Babalos, to be dissatisfied and because I recently met him, on 29 October, precisely on the issue of the theory of this municipality, what he mentioned is the good and proper cooperation that exists with the central administration, the immediate reaction to proclaiming the area in an emergency, to "run" the compensation, the fact that the municipality is being strengthened by the Ministry of Interior exceptionally and that there is a bureaucratic involvement in compensation, as the law does not provide for compensation for the loss of solar water heaters, aluminum and other things in the balconies. In any case, it is something that we see, and yet it is far from the picture, that the dear Parliamentary representative of the Change Movement attempted to describe Heraklion. The second thing I would say to the opposition, in particular the Census, is that I think the last thing to blame for is anti-parliamentism. At least in terms of the bill, there was a thorough discussion in the committee at four meetings. He was present at all, and indeed very much involved in the debate, in answering all the questions, discussions, questions and with the institutions - I will come back to the question of the discussion of the bodies and what they said when I get to the essence of the bill - but of course also with the representatives of the opposition. Thirdly, I would like to take him up, too, to wish him a good trip to the critical journey led by our Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in Abbo Dhabi. Let me point out here that Abbu Dhabi one, the most important one, the dominant one of the seven emirates constituted by the United Arab Emirates, has been leading in recent times and economically and certainly strategically in our region too. It is a new relationship, which includes investments, but also includes a strategic cooperation dimension. Let us remind you that the United Arab Emirates recently moved on to a very important agreement to restore diplomatic relations with the State of Israel and with Egypt, Jordan, Greece and Cyprus have made a strategic relationship to safeguard stability and security in our region in the Mediterranean, against anyone threatening it and trying to sabotage it. That is what Mr Georgiadis has said. Before I get to the point of the bill, I'm going to the critics of today. I cannot avoid and should not avoid a reference to the history of the Polytechnic anniversary. I think we will all agree that the Polytechnic in our collective memory has been recorded as one of the foundations of our post-cultural democracy, the third Hellenic Republic, the best, most complete, quality that our country has known in its history. It is one day for unity, but also for collection and not for division and limping. In this context, I will be allowed a very brief historical reference. So I will say that the revolt of the Polytechnic heroes has turned against a military dictatorship. It is worth noting two things that are important here, in my view, with a wider political value. Firstly, the 1967 coup is the last successful coup within a European area against democracy. Since then, we have had some coups either failed, or in the direction of rehabilitation of democracy, such as the movement that started as a movement and developed as a revolution then, "the carnations" in Portugal in 1974 and so on. It is therefore the last successful coup d'état to overthrow parliamentaryism, a parliamentary culture, to Europe. Since then, coups have been taking place outside the European area, in the so-called 'third world', in the poor south. It is not about us here in Europe. It is, in other words, an outdated, primitive one - let me tell you - form of political violence, which belongs to the past. Now, because Greece had the "price" to be the last country in which a successful military coup took place, this also shows the deterioration of parliamentarianism predicament, with whatever responsibilities the parties and leaderships of that period had, but also the wider lag behind, especially the political delay, of our country in relation to Europe. That is the first point. The second point concerns the period after 1974, where our country has actually managed to balance politically with the Europeans, to have what I said before - we have been told by Manisi and many other special and wiser - the most perfect and complete democracy, which has nothing to be jealous of the people of the developed Western European countries. However, we should consider the new risks facing democracy, which are not military coups such as in the past, but new forms of risks such as black money, populism, polarisation, which we see in all western democracies. Secondly, the fact that, while the post-war period until 1974 was characterised by this asymmetry of economic escalation and political downturn, the period after 1974 has been characterised by a political equation with Europe, a political maturity of our country. But, to be honest, we have not done so well and have been in trouble so far. As I have said again, no other country - member of the European Union - has made it any worse within the European Union than Greece, and that should concern us, because our mature and European type of democracy after 1974 has no economic performance equivalent to those which Spain, for example, has after its own post-population, but also many other countries. We are really in a problem, which has brought me to the House and to politics. I think it's the battle of our generation. If we really want to honour the heroes of the Polytechnics, consider the deficits of this democracy, the very great, correct, mature, European, and the problems it has. I now come, after this brief reference, to the bill of the Ministry of Development and Investment for PPC, the Competition Committee and the functioning of the market. It is a bill short, in 22 articles, as we have explained in committee, which is essentially four essential parts. They were analysed by the Minister in his prototype. The first part concerns the completion of European Regulation 1150/2019, which has been in force in our country for two years now, in order to better function and to be more effective in its implementation the European Union's institutional framework for e-business in the Greek market. This regulation first introduced rules on the regulation of relations between large online platforms and business users. These new rules prohibit unfair practices, provide for transparent classification and internal mechanisms for handling complaints, etc. With the new regulation of the first seven articles in the bill under discussion, in the first part of the bill, something important is being introduced, the possibility of collective action by business operators against these colosses. These bodies are recognised as consumers of these services and as there is the possibility of collective action by consumers, so this possibility is now given to entrepreneurs in order to better ensure their interests and uninterrupted competition. In order to do so further in these seven articles, the establishment of a Register of Associations and Public Entities in the Inter-Service Market Control Unit, which we introduced this year, in 2020, by a separate law in proportion to the Register of Consumers and designated by the DIME as the competent supervisory authority for the implementation of Regulation 1150/2019. These are the first important aspects of the possibility of collective action. In the second part of the bill, the following articles deal with arrangements for the Interservice Market Control Unit. It is a new control body, established by the n. Its management, management and the more effective organisation and operation are concerned with the implementation of the TEMPUS. The proposed legal strengthening of its control mechanism ensures the smooth functioning of the market by increasing controls and improving their quality by protecting consumers more effectively. It should not be seen as accidental that almost all the bodies who participated in the debate we had last week welcome this strengthening of the audit capacities of the IMIME and look forward, as they said, to the rapid adoption of ministerial decisions in order to put them into practice quickly. The third part of the bill relates to the Competition Committee, this very critical independent authority for the proper functioning of the market. I should like to stress here that most of the institutions have spoken of the scourge of blockade, which must certainly be seen even more severely by the Government and, of course, by this committee responsible for competition. The Competition Committee has found itself free of resources and therefore with difficulty in operating in the previous period and the Government now comes with two articles to establish a new way of financing, because it does not itself have sufficient resources, and more flexibility is provided in terms of making use of its real estate so as to strengthen the independence of the principle for the benefit of consumers and businesses. Through the institutioning key performance indicators, the main performance indicators for its assessment, are further improved internal procedures and a management model is adopted that maximises the effectiveness of its operation. This reinforces the principle of human and material resources, as this need has been established by both Europeans in their various reports on our country and by the Pissaridis Committee. In general, it is a committee that plays a central role in the functioning of the market and in the development perspective that we want, as the New Democracy Government now, to give. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] The fourth part of the bill relates to two articles in 18 and 19, for which perhaps the largest debate was held in the committee. Article 18 relates to the addition of paragraph 2a to a long article, of course, which merely repeats what we had previously defined and voted, which enables micro-enterprises of less than nine people, with a turnover of less than one million a year and a half, to operate in small municipalities of less than five thousand inhabitants in order to serve the local population. It was a constant demand from entrepreneurs, but also from the inhabitants of these regions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Article 19 enables licensee, in particular municipalities, who license the operation of popular markets to have greater flexibility so that, according to local consumer habits and the priorities of local societies, they can also operate on Sundays. Finally, there is the fifth part, which gives an extension to the time limit for the use of an authorised framework referred to in Article 4(2) of Law 1338/1983, as has been done before, for another five years by 2025, so that the relevant Minister can adopt the regulatory acts for the better functioning of the Intellectual Property Office, an institution provided for the protection of trademarks. I think that with regard to the bill there has been a very fruitful debate in the committee and a more general consensus on its basic provisions, both those who came and spoke and were many - not only of the public authorities, such as the Competition Committee, but also of BSE, the Retail Trade Association of Greece, the Central Association of Municipalities and Communities, and fourteenths of the number - and most of the representatives of the Anti-Population. The fact is that we are living in a new era where e-commerce will constantly increase in importance. They do not benefit, as I have said in committee, when electronic commerce and its large colosses such as 'AMAZON' and 'ALIBABA' do not know either Sundays or holidays or schol and can sell their products at any time. The Greek retail trade must also be helped, organized electronically. The pandemic shows exactly the tendency - it does not create it, but it insists on and emphasises this trend - to strengthen e-commerce. The small retail trade in the country, small small business and electronically, in order to meet the real challenge that this is, must be helped, it is no longer, as some representatives of counter-population want to talk to other models of the 20th century, the one which is e-commerce, which needs regulation, and the government rightly brings the relevant provisions in order to regulate and protect the businessman and the consumer. After all this, we, of course, also vote in favour of the draft law and I look forward to the debate, which will now follow in plenary with the representatives of the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, too. I wanted to propose a procedural proposal - if you can listen to me - and ask for your consent. The circumstances with which the House operates are particularly difficult, which is why only the parliamentary representatives and the rapporteurs and the special speakers are present in plenary, while all other Members will be connected by teleconferencing. Since we must not, by mandate and recommendation - which we must hear - and our health service, which also has the responsibility for everything that is working, accumulate here and here in the ministerial seats with colleagues, which are necessary when the ministers come, and because from the outset there has been another procedure, as you have seen from the internal network, with the Minister who accepted all the ministerial amendments, I will propose that the ministers present - apart from Mr Papathanassis, who will stay to the end - take the floor when they are in the Chamber so that they can leave and you can be facilitated, since you are aware of the analyses and positions of the ministers. I wanted to ask you to take this procedure. The Members who are in their offices have the opportunity to wait. I apologise to everyone, but we all have to adapt to the particular circumstances. Do you agree, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u91	The House agreed. I would like to give the floor first to Mr Dimas, in order to defend and place himself on the amendment No 558/36, but also to the amendment which is to be tabled. How long do you want, Mr. Dimas?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u92	Two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u93	Just? I'll give you three.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. As you said, the first amendment I want to talk about and inform this House is number 558/36 and it is about the composition of the National Research, Technology and Innovation Council. In the last year that the ESRB has dealt with many issues of substance in the research, technology and innovation section, and we see that there is a need for additional support to respond even better to its commitments. That is why we decided to increase the members of the National Research, Technology and Innovation Council from eleven to fifteen, and in particular to strengthen the part of the Committee on Research and Technology, which until now had five members and five of the five members to nine. So that is the first amendment. The second amendment concerns, as the Minister said, 'Thess INTEC'. Thess INTEC is a very ambitious project of the Government for Thessaloniki, for research and innovation. In fact, we are trying to exploit an unexploited area of seven hundred sixty acres in the Municipality of Thermaikos in Thessaloniki and create a 4th generation technology park. The aim is to be to attract large businesses to set up research and development centres in the region, technicians from universities and research centres or start-ups and to create an innovation ecosystem. In the spring that passed us we had legislated on the creation of the Development Company of Thessaloniki's Business Park "Thess INTEC", which was also legislated to be a non-profit-making joint venture and we were also able to pass on the land from TIADE, to which it belonged, to the "Alexandria Innovation Zone". Now I read to you, because the amendment has not yet been given, the following: ‘The ‘Alexandria Association of Innovation S.A.’’. shall be required within six months of the registration of the registered right at the Kalamaria Land Office to establish a surface right for ninety years in favour of the company “Company for the Development of Business Park Thess INTEC S.A.”.In order for the building of the necessary buildings, infrastructure and facilities to take place in the “Alexandria of Innovation Zone S.A.”.', transferred by the present, always according to the purpose of this transfer. The recommendation will take place with the establishment of a relevant contract between the two public limited companies, which will provide for the payment of “territorial” to the “Alexandria Innovation Zone” by “Thess INTEC”, set at 0.75% of the annual leases relating to long-term leases of buildings and to the “territory” collected by the Thessaloniki Business Park Development Company by third parties. Therefore, from the rents to be collected by the company "Thess INTEC" from long-term leases, 0.75% will go to the "Alexandria Innovation Zone". That is the amendment, it is the last bureaucratic obstacle left for the 'Thess INTEC' project. We want to believe that it will have the support of all Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u95	Does anyone present want to ask Mr Dimas, any of his colleagues present, or any of the rapporteurs, of special speakers or parliamentary representatives? As far as I can see, nobody wants to. Mr Dimas, you are free and you must leave the Chamber for the health reasons I have said. To give the floor to Mr Aygenakis, the Deputy Minister of Sports, in support of his own amendment. Here, Mr. Ausgeakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. I want before I mention the amendment we have tabled - and I am referring to 55533/13-11-2020 - to introduce a small one. The conditions we are experiencing, ladies and gentlemen, because of the pandemic are unprecedented. They change the economic and social life of our country and within an unprecedented and at the same time very difficult environment we are called upon to meet the new challenges. In this context, we have succeeded in making some important steps, which have not been decisive to date, but steps have not been taken towards democracy, transparency and the household, which at international and European level are making our country the subject of very praiseworthy comments, and that must make us all proud. We have modernised and continue to strengthen the sport programme for all. In cooperation with OTAs, we are giving everyone access and we are developing special programmes for special population groups, such as pensioners, pregnant women, Roma, prisoners. In cooperation with OAED we strengthened OTA staff with trainers for the development of other sporting programs for all. In cooperation with OTAs and the Ministry of Interior, we are building new ones and also improving and modernising existing sports budget infrastructures over 100 million euros. In cooperation with the Region of Attica, the Municipality of Rafina - Pikermio, the Greek Paralympic Committee and the Hellenic Paralympic Association of Greek Paralympics, we proceed with the construction of the first Paralympic Sports Center in Greece. At the end of the month the studies of this very important project are completed. This flagship project fully goes hand in hand with the government commitment to policy development for equal access for disabled people to all aspects of everyday life, to education, health, work, culture and sport. It is an important work with a national, Balkan and a pan-European dimension. We amplify healthy sport by creating an effective framework for dealing with doping through the establishment of the National Doping Control Agency, the pre-conscious matches by ratification of the McColin Treaty and the creation of a national platform. We implement the principles of good governance through the establishment and implementation of the system of evaluation of sports federations "Chillos" with a transparent and valuable federal evaluation system, with fully measurable indicators that reflect data on their full activities. We create the program "View Sports", a pioneering three-year program with a mission to promote sporting ideal and sporting ethos as a model of everyday life, involving Olympics, champions and popular athletes. It aims to raise awareness of all and especially of younger generations in the values of sport and volunteering. All the above, ladies and gentlemen, and many others, which I do not have time to mention now, have as a core, that is, as a central protagonist, the athlete. We serve the athlete, ladies and gentlemen. We must not forget that in this Chamber. We serve the athlete, not lifelong administrations. We were serving the athlete when we introduced the provision for all athletes to have the right to represent, but also the right to vote in the administrations of the federations. I would remind you that this provision was voted against by opposition parties such as SYRIZA, but even Mera25 and the rapporteur then of Mera25, Mrs Sakorafa, who, as I am learning, is interested in being a candidate for the SAGA. What person would face athletes when they voted against in this Chamber the right of athletes to be represented and to have the right to vote in the administrations of federations? In this Chamber, we must end with hypocrisy. With regard to today's amendment, which contains three provisions: it concerns problems that have been identified and we are curing today. The first provision concerns, as you probably know, benefits to distinguished athletes, which are known to all of us. The amendment states that the term 'one single organisation' in the fifth subparagraph of that paragraph does not occupy the periodically conducted world and European championships open and closed and the respective championships, world and European, swimming in swimming pools, swimming pools, both fifty and twenty-five metres long. The purpose of this clarification is to avoid interpretative approaches which lead to the exclusion, as was the case until now, of the awards, thus unequal treatment of athletes and athletes with top discrimination in international closed-point and international swimming matches conducted in swimming pools of twenty-five metres long. This has been the case in recent years because an interpretative approach has been wrong, in my opinion, in the administrative practice of the General Secretariat of Sports, and therefore closed and open-ended struggles have been considered to be absolutely similar and therefore comparable among the international organisations, including the most important ones following the submission of a question to the sports federation concerned. This interpretative approach appeared for the first time in the awarding of financial rewards to distinguished athletes for 2016, changeing slowly the up-to-date interpretation and application of exactly the same provisions by the administration. What was the result? As a result of this mistaken interpretation approach in recent years it has been lacking a high level of athletes and athletes of incentives for discrimination in international races. For those reasons, it is considered necessary to be authentic by the legislator, now, according to the above clarification, and with retroactive effect from 1-1-2016 in order to restore the injustices that have arisen and thus continue on this issue the practice followed by administrations up to 2015. On this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a clarification. Since I was informed about the problem, I have expressed the Government's willingness to deal directly, in a legitimate and permanent way. In constant communication with all involved athletes, we discussed possible alternatives. Indeed, in further communications we had with some of the directly interested parties, in particular on 29 October, they were informed that the procedure had been initiated to find a solution by means of the provision, that is, the current provision which I would ask you to vote on. I was rather surprised by an unfavourable post - a statement to an international, indeed, mid-Olympian of Katerina Stefanidis, since it had already been made known in our own written communication how to deal with this issue, namely the constant interest and overall attempt to resolve it by means of a provision that we would bring to Parliament, which we have done in a few days' time. I personally consider this to be an end, and I do not wish to go on with it. As far as athletes' premiums as a whole are concerned, I would remind you that the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government had spent elsewhere the institutionalised 2017 premiums, which exceed EUR 2.5 million, and which had not been attributed to athletes as a debtor. Shame on you! Yes, the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government did that too! We have ensured this amount in excess of our budget and will be paid over the next few weeks to the recipient athletes. Indeed, it is planned for the beginning of 2012 and the payments of the 2018 premiums amounting to approximately one million additional. Because for us - I repeat - athletes and, of course, amateur sport are the priority. With regard to the second provision of this article, the term of office of the Committee on Professional Sport shall be extended for the period up to 31-32021. That re-expansion is deemed necessary because the process of processing the dossiers for the award of the certificates referred to in Article 77A of Law 2725/1999 is not yet complete due to the delay in launching the championships due to the COVID pandemic -19. All of this in the light of an imminent legislative initiative regulating the reorganisation of the Committee on Professional Sport and laying down the legal framework for its duties and functions. I repeat for those who did not understand, we are in the final straight for a new bill from the Ministry of Sport, which will create a new, modern framework for the functioning of this committee. I had already announced it since mid-September that we have been discussing this here now, L.4726. I repeat this today for those who have been raped to poison with their pen and their heavy statements in the means at work. They are the ones who discovered scandals and reforms every day a few months ago. Their credibility is in Nadir. As far as the third provision is concerned: with this article for reasons of speed, flexibility, but of course and avoiding a large number of natural persons assembled and assembled in a space, it is laid down that decisions to amend the specific rules on the registration and transfer of athletes will be taken on a case-by-case basis by the relevant management boards. They shall not be adopted or validated by the General Assembly by way of derogation from any other statutory or regulatory arrangements. This is so that the necessary adaptation can be made to the changes made to Article 33 of Law 2725/1999 with Article 12 of Law 4726/2020, that is to say, the approval of their sporting programme for the 2020-2021 season, as well as the approval of the Awards for the year 2019 and the budgets for the year 2021 of sports bodies, clubs, associations and federations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u97	Mr Katrinis has been asking, I imagine, for clarification. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. I do not know whether Mr Augorakis has an unsuccessful obligation, such as Mr Georgiadis, but I think that, at least, the rapporteurs should finish their speeches and then the ministers should come to us to present the amendments. You understand, there's a class. But I don't like it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u99	I don't know if you were in the room when I raised the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u100	I probably wasn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u101	I raised this in your judgment and saw no reaction but agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u102	After you put it...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u103	You are the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives who must have direct responsibility, and also help colleagues with their questions, with their contributions so that when they are put by teleconferencing they will be more and better informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u104	Let me ask the Minister something about the amendment, Mr President. Minister, in Article 1(b) you are talking about age groups and must be clarified and made clear what you mean by 'older age' in terms of age limits. Why am I saying that? Because depending on the sport - you know it very well - there are different age limits. In other words, there is under the age of seventeen, under the age of nineteen, under the age of sixteen, under the age of eighteen. This is different from sport in sport. I will also give you an example. The Olympic sport of vivon do has sixteen categories in the European and world championship and six categories in the Olympic programme. To date benefits are given only to those athletes who have distinguished themselves in the six categories of the Olympic program, regardless of whether these athletes have won the wins in the Olympic Games, in world championships or in European championships. I think that this injustice must be restored because athletes are distinguished in all categories depending on which programme they are involved, but only those who are struggling in the six categories of the Olympic programme enjoy the benefits. Also in paragraph (c) you refer to group ratings or rankings. I will give you an example. The sport of anti-Sport is an individual sport, but there are, as you know very well, national teams participating in Davis Cup, Fed Cup and of course in ages below 16, eighteen years of age participating in world and pan-European championships. If the provision remains as it stands, then these national teams, even if they win on these championships, will have no right to enjoy the privileges that you are establishing and expanding. I see a series of amendments and regulations on this strategy. So since you're determined to include all those who win victories in a similar range of championships, I think you should include all the categories. I mentioned two examples. So I would like you to look at this and if you do not have time to do so today, which I think there is time by night, to bring it as a legislative improvement, then to do so immediately after a next provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. It makes sense when problems are solved, that we all feel a satisfaction, especially when talking about sport. I think that all Greeks have a special sympathy to this part and especially to athletes who operate and work alone in individual sports which are problematic. Mr. Ignace, time is relative. "Some weeks" may be three, but it may be fifteen. Otherwise time works for an elephant and otherwise for a butterfly. I want you to tell us if it was unreasonable the complaints made by our world champion and Olympian, Mrs Stefanidis. Also, you who are, I will say very simply, the 'government' of sport, and you should embrace and cover all athletes and not make personal knots, I would like you to tell us if you account for any small-party or small-political purposes in the post - protest or complaint, if you like, Mrs Stefanidis and the rest of the athletes. Because if he had taken the premiums, I don't think anyone would have complained. On the SYRIZA he blocked, nothing happened, just like you. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What I mean to say is these people are proud to make all Greeks and our homeland proud by bringing medals. It is one of the few who have remained standing in this society and make Greek citizens proud when they listen to the national anthem for a first in a world or in a European championship or at the Olympic Games. So we should support these people anyway, Mr Ausgeakis. And you should overcome these problems and not take them as personal attacks. I do not think it is advisable that the names of athletes, our champions, our gold Olympics, world champions, should be heard in the Greek Parliament and should be targeted in one way or another. These problems should be overcome and, I repeat, particularly in sports that have brought enormous successes to our country and their benefits, beyond recognition, are disproportionate. It's not like football that has rich contracts or anything else. They are lonely riders who carry our homeland, carry the Greek flag, carry the Greeks and the Greeks on their backs, on their edge, on their fast legs or on their sturdy arms and rise them up. So these people should guard them as an eyewitness and not be micropolitical on their justified, perhaps even too sometimes, complaints. I repeat, if they had taken the money and complained, then really all of us, like you, would have the same concern. However, I think that these people should be very careful and supported, because they are one of those who keep our country standing up. We should also leave them away from political or party games and purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Logiadis has the floor from Mera25. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, good morning. I see that in the Chamber we are four MPs from Heraklion. So I want to ask you a question about Heraklion, for us. We are all very well aware of the subject of the special school in Agios Giannis Hostos. As a municipality, we're looking to find rooms to relocate. Is it possible to relocate, for example, to the closed gym "Two Aories" which is supermodern until a definitive solution is found for this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u109	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor to answer the questions alone. Please do not open the conversation any further, because there is a health issue. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u110	I shall be very brief, Mr President, after thanking the rapporteurs, who have given me their position to speak and leave the Chamber because of the problems and the procedure you have announced and accepted all the parties. As far as Mr Loyades is concerned, I would like to say that this is not my responsibility. It's a problem that I'm trying to manage. As you know, special schools are the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and the municipality. The ‘Two Aorakia’ is also an installation belonging to the municipality. However, wherever I have to intervene or help through the capacity that I have, either as a Member or as a Minister, it goes without saying that I will do so, because all of us, I imagine, want to address the question of the working of the special school in Heraklion. And I come now with regard to the issue raised by Mr Katrinis. If I understood correctly, Mr Katrin, you agree with the order. Right? Are you voting for her? Because I didn't understand well. From the way you were placed, I felt you had a positive attitude. However, at the end of the day you will vote for what you judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u111	I'll answer you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u112	However, I would like to say that you have made a reference to the provisions of the existing law as a whole. We are today amending the contested provision, which is a problem, as I mentioned, with a surprise for me, but also for my colleagues, on a premium that should have been given since 2016. There are many issues. Of course, I would like to say here that we are talking about a premium for categories of Olympic sports. They are premiums, that is, they are supported, they are rewarded financially by Olympic sports. Nevertheless, I would urge to say that the issue of sports and discrimination as a whole is something that concerns us. In conclusion, the process of the register - and this is something that I imagine answers to your question, your question and the concern you have, but also part of the sporting family, which I imagine you are carrying - the election of the new federations' administrations, we shall proceed with very close cooperation in the remodeling of the whole framework that needs to be right, measured and very careful in order to be able to have democracy and justice. I can hear that and I do not disagree because you referred to sports which is not Olympic. There are many more problems and gaps that I have, and I agree with and praise what you are saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u113	Tavon do it's a Olympic sport, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u114	I agree with and commend what you say. I don't disagree with you. But I say to you that we will have the opportunity to do this carefully and organisedly when the first two stages I mentioned just before are completed. And now I come to what Mr Hetas said. From your mouth, I had heard, but also from other opposition executives that we are working with the Olympians, when over fifty top sports executives were in favour of the bill, the law now 4726. Didn't you say? Then we said, to God, there is no job at all, as we are now. We listen with great respect to any position of our Olympics, our leading athletes. However, let me say that we have speeded up and informed and embraced our athletes. Clearly I agree with you that it is our duty, without any exception, to embrace and strengthen the staff, but also to fight nationally that these children are doing, but also to reward them and solve their problems. That is why there has also been personal communication which I have invoked. However, there has also been institutional communication and information, as I had to do as Minister of Sport and all this sporting family without any discrimination. I repeat, it is our duty to embrace, strengthen these people and reward them for their work and effort.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Catarini, do you want to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u116	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u117	The explanations were therefore given. Thank you, Minister. I call on the Step for 15 minutes the SYRIZA rapporteur - the Progressive Alliance, Mr. Charalambos Mamoulakis. In fact, Heraklion today has its honour. The Minister is from Heraklion, but the Members of the other parties who are here today are from Heraklion. Here, Mr Mamulaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Bureau of Parliament for the particularly important and symbolic event that took place this morning at 10.00 a.m., an event of course related to the Polytechnics, the historical collective memory, with what this implies, a moment when there was and took place an explosion of immediate democracy where young people at that time and not really took the situation in their hands. So it is a very important day for all of us, forty-seven years later, and especially for many of us who are young Members - and possibly age and parliamentarians - who were not even born on the day that these terrible and very important events took place. But we have people of our own, from our family, who have in their way transmigrated this experiential experience they have experienced. It is therefore a very important day that we too, with the most symbolic - given the health conditions in our country - considered that we had to pay tribute to all people who fought for us. Another report, before I enter the essence and the core of the bill that we are going to discuss today, is, in fact, to express our sincere condolences to the death of the doctor of our hearts, to the man who personally - I do not hide it - was following me medically, to Giannis Metropoulou, a man who has been uneasy and eagerly trying to help all of us, MPs and not, the whole ecosystem of the Greek Parliament, the National Representation and who has really lost his life in a very - very young way. It is a minimum obligation on our part to express these sincere condolences. By entering the essence of the bill, I cannot but comment on an issue which once again comes to the Greek Parliament in the most wrong and from a political point of view. And it is no longer a question of parliamentary as such. The importance of public consultation should not be underestimated at this point too, and I should like to make it clear that seven of the twenty-two articles, other than the amendments, were actually discussed and included in the public consultation. The other fifteen additional articles came later, with what this implies for the logic of sound legislature. Also, of course, on all of this, a cherry on the cake was the storm of heterogeneous amendments, but ministerial amendments, which came in either last week or even now, last minute, last night. These are amendments which have nothing to do with the expedited Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Development, and which of course exist in a climate of not a Memorandumary cheque for speeding up procedures, but in a climate of relative normality, despite the issue of our health conditions. I therefore think that what our Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Haritsis, has really put forward, in the most distinct and eloquent way, is essentially and we must once again emphasise them, consolidate them in order to avoid them in the future, avoid them in the future by the government in the future. It is something that we consider to be not unreasonable once again. Let us go a little further to the substance of the bill, to the regulation which, in our opinion, has, in our view, been laid down by the government as a front, for a bill where this regulation does not employ 20% or 22% of its total. Regulation 1150/2019 was adopted in June 2019 and the date of its entry into force was known, i.e. on 12 July 2020. You had a year to prepare in Parliament its implementing provisions. You have had time to recommend, serve and train the staff of the authority, which will carry out supervision of the implementation of the provisions. You have had time to make the amendments to the organization of the EMEA, by a presidential decree, i.e. by violating the law on the final state, for which you yourself are being taken. On the substance, for the DIAMEA, staffing and auditors. I would like to raise the question, which I have rightly pointed out to the committees, of the lack of know-how and experience of this newly created TEMPUS in order to carry out compliance checks under Regulation 1150/2019 of the European Commission. Not only computer knowledge or possibly legal and administrative knowledge are required. There is a need for deep market knowledge in order to identify the cases of actual unfair practices that distort competition itself. A combination of skills and a wide range of knowledge from a legal, economic and IT point of view are required. Officials with this high expertise in IT are unable to meet the burdens and knowledge required to exercise - take care, ladies and gentlemen - quasi-inquiry powers, as provided for by the law. With regard to the staff of the IMIF, once again enter arrangements by way of derogation from the Mobility Provisions. Derogations perpetuate, Minister, the suffering of public administration and do not lead to its optimum functioning. Another key issue, the third pillar of our criticism and the parallel of the proposals that will be tabled, is the logic of this draft law on the imposition of fines and sanctions that the IMEA may impose. As regards fines, Article 15 of the Regulation explicitly provides that the measures adopted by the Member States and applicable in the event of infringement of the Regulation must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. The fine provision, as you have tabled, therefore constitutes a clear violation of the regulation. Why do we say that? Because a wide range of fines from EUR 1,500 to EUR 2 million, without classification of penalties, i.e. without this categorisation, fragmentation on a case-by-case basis, of course, depending on the gravity of the infringements. So, here we have a clear issue of lack of planning, rational planning, so that - the risk that is present here is clear - that it is left to decision or to political intervention - obviously seen as a ruptured, obviously - of every minister, every political official. It is important that the provisions that turn us back and you should definitely revise. With regard to the sources of funding, the budget and in general the independence of the Competition Committee - because much has been said here over the period from 2011 to the Competition Committee - I wanted to say the following: With regard to the sources of funding of the Competition Committee in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, in points 24, 26 of the recitals to the Directive of 11 December 2019, there is a reference to the effect that the Member States may consider using different financing instruments of the Competition Committee outside the State budget. However, this same directive states that Member States must ensure the independence of the Competition Committee. To achieve this goal, insert settings in order to have other sources of revenue, including revenue from non-profit organisations and institutions. I would remind you that the directive you refer to also mentions the eighteenth point of the preamble to its preamble and states precisely that the heads, staff and decision-makers should refrain from incompatible actions which are profitable or not. How, then, is it ensured that these persons will not be able to carry out independent assessments in the event that the controlled entity or undertaking or person associated with the Competition Committee is also the beneficiary of the Competition Committee? So, here we have a clear matter of direct or indirect influence. In the Minutes, Mr President, I will table this Community directive to which I am referring, to show that the ferry is actually opening up through these non-governmental organisations. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Charalambos (Haris) Mamoulakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Everyone knows that too many companies, energy companies, construction companies, or have a direct or indirect incorporation relationship with such terms. So how will you ensure, how will you shield this independence of the Competition Committee with these practices and with these legislation? It is a distinct, clear question that needs answer. We are going a little further into the question of the independence of the committee itself. Overall, your intervention in the Competition Committee reduces its independence both to the State - and more critical - towards the bodies which it has to control, namely the private sector. The example of key audited bodies by the Competition Committee involved in NGOs is tens, as I mentioned earlier, of energy companies up to the construction companies in our country. So, I am sure - once again I stress - you will have to revise and remove the provision and provision at all costs. In any case, if this is just a whim of counter-population, really - as I have said before - I would like to ask this, Mr Minister: Have you notified the European Competition Committee, in the well-known DG COMP, of the changes that you have introduced today, asking for its consent to them? Is there, then, the consensus of DG COMP on this matter? I expect, if anything, its written assent, because otherwise, as you can see, a major political issue arises, and not just a matter. All this is of particular importance when it comes to a time when in the press releases referring to speeches by the Minister himself - I am not referring to you, Mr Papathanassis, I am referring to Mr Georgiadis - which afflict the independence of the committee. In fact, to prove this, I would like to mention in the Minutes the press reports which speak of clear interventions by the relevant Minister in the Competition Committee. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Charalambos (Haris) Mamoulakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] One issue also concerns the Competition Committee, which is of minor importance in the light of the facts, is the building issue. If your argument for all these arrangements of the Competition Committee - building, provision for state funding, award of studies, etc. - are the economic difficulties and the need to find new revenues immediately, why do you envisage the possibility of converting the Competition Committee to a property that will be leased when the property is transferred to the property in which it is currently housed? It can't be done! Both? It doesn't make sense. Will the rental of property not, in any case, increase the revenue for the operation of the Competition Committee? The provisions on derogations for renting real estate are clearly "photographic" and "sysphetological". This case is intensified by the fact that the Minister in four successive committees - apologise for the expression - "made the Chinese". I asked each committee in particular on this matter. I have not received a reply on the substance. What else can be the provision for the possibility of a long-term rental of a property without - I stress this - a auction by individuals, in the event of an extension of an existing lease? And we are now going to two issues that, as the rapporteur for the Coupling has said, have been very busy and, to a large extent, - I would say - the committees last week. One issue is about the operation of shops on Sundays, and the second issue is the people's markets. As regards the first, for the operation of the shops on Sundays, on the optional operation of shops on Sundays, I think that the attitude and objections of a number of market operators were very clear. We heard the bodies in the committee at the hearing of the bodies who put forward concrete arguments with a common denominator the objections observed. Although the Minister has repeatedly claimed that the provision seems to relate to the operation of very small shops in small municipal communities, it does leave room for 'black', not to say 'doors', to circumvent this provision by large companies, large shops, large business chains through subsidiaries and branches. The fact that the Minister did not consider it necessary to amend the provision in such a way as to exclude any such 'window', any possibility of the provision being used as an opportunity for the operation of large commercial chains, shopping centres, malls, etc. in the passing of many major cities, such as Yannina, Larissa and, of course, Athens, confirms our worst fears. The whole arrangement is best a gift in this part of the world, which time-consumingly pushes for the release of stores on Sundays and at the worst of another roussefetti with a scent of minister. People's markets: Here I would like to refer to the provision for the operation of the people's markets six days a week, that is, their ability to operate on Sunday. I will once again focus - because we are constantly confronting it as a Qualified Opposition - with the major role of self-government. It is not possible, once again, for a matter that is necessary, balanced and co-operating in the central state with self-government, that is to say, that it is not local government. The fact that there is another responsibility being dismantled from local government and not just that, but also resources, that is to say, that the rational policy that we need to draw up is something that we must build up and that the ministry must change its minds in that sense. With a brave political thinking, with a review view on self-government, it must be strengthened with responsibilities, of course always accompanied by the distinct resources it should have. So the limits of this provision are not clear, and we must stress that. In conclusion, we intend to vote against the bill, Mr Minister, because it does not heal any of the existing problems that it is supposed to be trying to regulate or contribute to the regulation of e-commerce more than it does in itself, justly the directive, nor the Competition Committee, but rather it shrinks - and we have proved it - its independence. And, of course, the bill ends in a paradoxical way to put another touch on the black landscape of industrial relations in Mitsotakis through the Sunday arrangement. None of this, however, matters the day when the government chooses to circumvent the Constitution of our country, our country. The New Democracy Government today is a government that rehearsals and all the others enter the second fate in the face of this truly criminal intent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, too. Please prepare for the Step in order to call the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrin, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I begin my speech, I would like to refer to paragraph 5 of Amendment 560, which is the raw assumption of the failure of the Mitsotakis Government. Does the government of their excellent three and a half thousand COVID nurses -19, today talking to hospitals and 80% of the country's IF beds to go through the IFET in three days on a respirators, hospital beds and fixed bed equipment? The government, which was celebrating until recently to increase the IF beds, but didn't even make sure to equip the beds that came from donations? And we don't discuss the early development of IF beds at public expense. Now he remembered that, what he does through Amendment 560 to paragraph 5. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a market bill, when the country is in a second lockdown, which is unknown how long it will last. The primary deficit exceeded EUR 9 billion in the 10th of 2020, on the basis of yesterday's publication of the Ministry of Finance and the recession will exceed 10% this year, as Mr. Sculakakis first sculpted five days ago, but evaluation houses and international markets have already announced. Loss of cigarettes in the market is certain to exceed EUR 50 billion, while eight out of ten companies declared a reduction in income in the previous period, according to the survey by the Athens Chamber of Commerce and Industry. At the same time as liquidity remains demanded for the vast majority of Greek enterprises that have remained outside the TEIX Guarantee Fund, while self-employed and new businesses lose the aid from the regional programmes, the Government requires the payment of EUR 4 billion over the next forty-five days in HPAI, traffic charges and income tax. Red loans are expected to exceed EUR 10 billion, despite the struggling efforts of the banking system to prolong dose suspensions, which shows that the first phase of suspension of bank loans was not, Minister, your decision, but the desire of the banking system. Like the banks' decision was to suspend auctions that you refused to bring it to the House on the day the Prime Minister announced lockdown, but Mr Mitsotakis himself announced it a week later. But red has hit the uncertainty, the concern and the insecurity of the citizens and especially the commercial world. It is apparent from recent surveys and surveys that the world of the market sees the government's measures as simply inadequate. This considers 65% in the EBEA survey before the second lockdown. It is 69% in the survey carried out by PARAPOLITICA the other day. I don't think it's a opposition newspaper. I'll submit it to the Minutes. So, at this juncture, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing this draft law which aims to regulate the e-commerce market and to put obstacles to unfair practices in application of Regulation 1150/2019 of the European Parliament. The development of e-commerce offers potential - that is certain - but also poses risks. A recent survey by the General Secretariat of Consumers confirms the lack of clear consumer information and the Consumers' Counselor mentions a explosion of complaints in the first ten months of 2020 for electronic markets, but without having seen similar fines imposed by the Ministry. No one therefore disagrees that we need a regulatory framework for online platforms despite the fact that there is now more modern European legislation. It is the one we will be called upon to ratify in a few hours the Greek Parliament. According to the recent investigation of the ELTRUN by Professor Dukidis, only one of the eight Greek companies is classified at the advanced stage of the digital preparedness index with one in the first two. I shall submit the relevant report to the Minutes. This regulatory role has to be played today by the EMEA, a service set up three and a half months ago, with the aim of combating the blockade but now universally and globally controlling the market. The EMEA is entrusted with the task of implementing the framework that we are voting on today, despite the fact that it has expressed the desire for the competition committee to take over. It will be judged, Minister, the correctness of this choice in future. The procedures provided for in the establishment plan of the IMEA are incomplete since proof of unequal or unconventional behaviour on the part of companies to users can only be proven by recording these data on a 24-hour basis, which requires a specific technological infrastructure - you know - and only private companies can provide it. Unless the Ministry is thinking about DIAMEA performing its role with outsourcing services to private individuals. What will this mean for the solvency and the validity of the procedure? Before drying the ink of the relevant FEK, the Ministry of Development amends a series of provisions of Law No 4712/2020 before even implementing an ambitious plan to stop the blockade of the DIME. At the end of July we voted for him. Mr. Georgiadis is now away. However, I remember the fact that this bill has been given the floor eighteen times, on the basis of the minutes of the House, speaking for over an hour and a half and saying that the IMI creates a flexible control mechanism that promotes legitimacy and that we need the possibility of having greater operational readiness, greater speed and more resources. He even concluded by saying that, with the new shape of the EMEA, the controls from July 2020 to July 2021 will be between twenty thousand and two thousand. Twenty thousand were the corresponding period July 2019 to July 2020. Increasing, of course, the figure compared to what the previous government did, but Mr Georgiadis risk a forecast similar to that that he had made in July 2019 for the Greek in the government's programming statements. I will testify to the relative revulsion of the Minister from the Minutes of the House. These are, therefore, 27 July 2020. What have you been doing so far? On 17 August, the Minister for Development authorised the Secretary-General for a number of decisions to combat the blockade and to operate the new DIAMEA agency, such as the drafting and implementation of a national strategic plan to combat illegal trade, the staffing and training of the staff of the DIAMEA, the monitoring and response of problems in the operation of the DIAMEA, a series of circulars to effectively combat the blockade. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, how many of these circulars or provisions have been adopted three months later? None. I repeat: none. This is the determination of the Ministry of Development to combat blockage, to support traders, who have only been exhausted in the slogans to the DIAMEA. We'll see how the target of the two hundred thousand checks goes by July 2021. I will table the relevant ministerial decision in the Minutes and come out of the Ministry's drawers and is implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill contains provisions aimed at strengthening the Competition Committee, which is an institutional tool for the fair functioning of the market and for the treatment of unfair practices, of course, for the benefit of consumers. It must, however, be subject to the prudential control of the Court of Auditors, and the additional funding, other than the planned fees and the State budget, must be made exclusively by international research and scientific bodies. This is what I think needs to be formulated in the draft law. The Committee on Competition has an important role to play today when citizens feel truly defenceless about business abuses, with the Pissaridis report itself finding a problem in the time needed to detect infringements and even to deal with cases. I mention it, Minister, because it is good news for your government. A characteristic example, which all my fellow Members know is the question of the charges imposed by banks on citizens for electronic transactions, which have been launched since the beginning of the pandemic. Today's report says that in six months' time, citizens have paid six hundred million euros for bank supplies. We as a Change Movement asked our first question a year ago. I'll testify to her in the Minutes. We visited the Competition Committee. I'll also testify to it in the Minutes. As magically a few days after board auditors were raided by the banks. I will also present the relevant report to show who they are who have moved the issue and forced it to be self-evident. A few days after the Change Movement, the Prime Minister met with the bankers and asked them to reduce charges. The charges were cut for twenty-six remote islands and regions. 99.5% of the people living in this country continue to pay these high charges. But do citizens bear these charges in a series of transactions, ladies and gentlemen, which represent over 20% of the bank's operational profitability? They are citizens who count every day and the last euro for survival costs. Mr Lianos informed us that there is a relevant finding of the audit carried out in the banks a year ago and hopes that the process will be over soon. Of course, valid journalistic sources talk about completion after a year. I want to believe that the process will be completed much sooner, because the citizens cannot afford to pay these charges for another year. We are now going to the mobile data charges which the Committee on Competition itself has done with two investigations - the last one was thirteen days ago - proves that in Greece we pay 60% more than in other European countries, and that overcompensation as magical is also mentioned - in the Pissaridis report. And this is of particular value now in the second quarantine, when the needs for megabytes are multiplied for professional, educational and entertainment reasons. The Prime Minister also met with the company representatives a year ago. He asked for reductions, but only some individual offers were made during the 2019 Christmas season at the start of the quarantine and shortly after the publication of REWHEEL's investigation on behalf of the Competition Committee last May. I'll testify to the Minutes because it's very useful for there to be. The high charges remain and Greece remains the most expensive country in the European Union, as the Competition Committee confirms with the relevant communication of the investigation it carried out on 4 November and I will also present it in the Minutes. As a Change Movement, we tabled a question on 8 May. I'll testify to her in the Minutes. We called for the committee to be convened on 13 May, so that the Minister for Digital Governance would come with the two independent authorities, the Competition Commission and the National Telecommunications and Post Committee, as well as the representatives of mobile telephony companies. I shall put this to the vote in the Minutes, because it must be seen in this Chamber what the political groups are asking for to discuss and investigate the daily problems that concern citizens. Of course, Mr Pierracakis has never come to explain to us what is happening, and he is the same Minister, who has asked that we do not enter social media in order not to load the network, but who will very soon be invited to give us a response to the adequacy of network maintenance, now that in the second lockdown we see that the network is constantly falling. Is it only foreign companies and platforms to blame, or is the telecommunications cartel enjoying immunity from the Mitsotakis Government? Carefully questions and answers. Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of premiums for supermarkets, the Minister has also referred to it. Quickly, the government's decision. Citizens at the moment want to feel that the state protects them in these particular circumstances with the financial impossibility of meeting the uncertainty about the future. And I want to believe that there will also be controls that will prevent illegal practices and reasonable practices in the near future. It is certain that the opening of shops on Sundays, in areas with a population of up to five thousand inhabitants, will not favour small shops unless provision is made to prevent the operation of chains or large companies that will be ‘spray’ accounting in smaller accounts to meet the conditions set out in Article 18. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a provision covering 65% of the country's communities, and this is because in a contracted market, a small company cannot afford the increased operating costs on Sundays, especially in conditions of unfair competition. And there are many businesses, which already do not function despite the fact that they have not been deleted from GEMH's registers. Market operators have been placed over time to open stores on Sundays. Furthermore, it is no coincidence that at any time, the EU, the GSE and the other professional bodies against similar decisions in the Council of State have been entitled. I believe, Minister, that the framework for the operation of shops on Sundays, without voices and slogans, should be reassessed, and there really should be an investigation into whether it has worked for the benefit of the citizens of Europe and in favour of competition. In the case of rural retailers and retailers, a package of support measures is needed, since these people have not been working for seven months, and it must be made clear whether the license ratio for public, commercial or producers is about young people or old ones or about to be transferred. The amendments tabled by the Government will initially refer to the amendment of the article by the Ministry of Justice, paragraph 4, an amendment to an article that was adopted, ladies and gentlemen, ten days ago. I repeat. An article is amended ten days ago, since Mrs Bijuni's letter and three more judges headed by the Football Arbitration Court convinced you that you cannot suddenly be “headed” by judges of the football organs. In Amendment No 557, gather all the responsibilities for rehabilitating projects to the Minister of Infrastructure for 'January'. Let's see if this shape works. In Amendment No 558 you are changing the composition of the National Technology Research Council a year after the law was passed. That's a good piece of legislation, too. In Amendment No 559, you have implemented some of the measures you announced since the lockdown day concerning the reduction of rents, the partial compensation of lessees. But what are you going to do, Mr Ministers, for those who worked on a seasonal basis by October and who appear today as unemployed? They don't need support, especially if they have one or two children they study? He called me yesterday from Lefkada, a seasonally employed in tourism. He stopped in October and has two sons of students. So this is not entitled to a rent reduction. What should man do? He doesn't get a job. He was not suspended, since because of his profession he worked less than other years, he has two sons and does not enjoy the beneficial measure of a 40% reduction in rent. That's what I think we should see. You are also providing for an amendment with a general number of 559 extensions of cheques, VAT of certified debts, instalments of gaming companies, and an extension of the automatic refund mechanism for pharmaceutical expenditure, since the Government has considered it appropriate to maintain stable spending limits and not to adapt them in the coming years. Finally, it promotes the suspension of auctioning for those affected in Samos from the recent earthquake. In Amendment No 560, you are taking a number of steps to strengthen the health system immediately. I mentioned before. But these demonstrate the frustration of the government. What motive do you tell retired doctors to come and serve the system when you're cutting off their retirement of 30%? Tell me who's coming to work on the NSA when we now need all the doctors to join, and you put this limit on it? In the amendment with a general number of 561 you are turning to Municipal Police Administrative Officers by a mayor's decision. Let's see, this decision refers to other times. I would like to end by repeating that we have tabled an amendment. We will ask the Minister responsible to accept it. We ask for the proportionate application of the provisions on the disasters from 'January' and for the areas of Crete, specific municipalities that have actually suffered unprecedented catastrophe, and we consider it self-evident that they should benefit from the provisions that we also voted for the people affected in the disaster of 'Janue'. Ladies and gentlemen, in this very critical situation, the government chooses to give minimums to the world of the market, to professionals, traders and businessmen from a ten-year crisis and a crisis due to a coronary, with multiple real injuries. We understand the distress and insecurity of the people of the market, and that is why we support them. We transfer this anxiety and hope that solutions will reduce their accumulated problems, namely, realistic and, above all, costly measures that will reduce the consequences of an asymmetric situation, but also the consequences of a government that is also inactive, but which unfortunately is also wrong. At the same time as support measures it is important to establish a sense of law through rules that combat unfair competition. And because this is being attempted by this bill, despite individual reservations and disagreements, it is also the main reason why we will be voting in favour of this bill in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, too. As we have already agreed, the responsible Secretary of State for Finance, Mr Besiropoulos, is here to put himself in a very large amendment, the amendment with a general number of 559 and a special 37, and then colleagues will be able to ask any clarification they want from the Minister, who will then leave. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, addressing the consequences of the pandemic in the economy has been and has been the government's first priority in the last eight months. This is reflected in the measures taken successively from March to today. As I have said many times, this procedure is not static. It is adapted and updated in line with the development of the pandemic and the Government is constantly taking new measures to protect public health. It is regrettable that there are political forces using pandemic as a field of micro-party confrontation and barren opposition to the government. Fortunately, society has fully realised the seriousness and criticalness of the situation. The vast majority of citizens, in their behaviour, give individual responsibility credentials, respects measures, defends the good of public health. The Greek citizens have suffered a great deal. They recognized the need not to celebrate as we used to celebrate emblematic festivities, such as Easter, October 28th and now the anniversary of the Polytechnic, which are inextricably linked to the religious and national feeling of the Greeks, which remains strong. The overwhelming majority of citizens accept the need, because of the prevailing conditions, to honour these anniversaries in a different way, without jeopardising the health of the community as a whole. Because we should all be together, healthy, all together, get out of this adventure, and all together take life back to our hands. At this difficult juncture we propose rationalization. Correction is a primary feature of the legislative initiatives of this government towards alleviating the consequences of the pandemic, in the direction of effective support for those who really need it. In this context, we are tabling the amendment with a general number of 559 and a special number of 37 of the Ministry of Finance in the bill we are debating today. I have taken the floor to refer to the content of this amendment, which I believe should be a field of consensus and agreement between all political forces. Article 1 of the amendment extends the measure of the compulsory reduction of 40% of the rentals. In particular, the 40% reduction relates to the rent reduction of a company based in a regional unit that joined epidemiologically at a very high level for at least 14 days in October. The rent reduction shall also apply to the principal residence of workers in these areas where their employment contract is suspended, for the purpose of student residence of dependent members of such workers, and to seafarers whose sailing contract is suspended due to restrictive measures relating to the control of the pandemic. The same provision of the 40% rental reduction applies for November and thereafter, where extensive restrictive measures are imposed. From this horizontal provision, there is a presumption that there is a loss of income for owners of immovable property in which a compulsory rental reduction of 40% is imposed. In the previous period of introduction of the compulsory rental reduction of 40%, we had chosen as a way of financial support to owners of real estate to grant a tax debt discount which had a final payment date to the tax authority from 31 July onwards. Article 2 of the amendment changes the method of financial support for owners of immovable property, for which from November now on it will be credited to their bank account equal to 50% of the reduction in rent for those months. This is a substantial improvement in relation to what existed before, since, on the one hand, the amount received by the owner of the property is increased as a measure of financial support and, on the other, this amount is submitted directly to its bank account. Article 3 of the amendment addresses the very serious issue of the cheques issued, an issue which concerns both those who have issued the cheques and have difficulty in paying them and those who have these cheques in their hands and need liquidity. The regulations promoted by the Government concern companies which have proved to be affected by the consequences of the pandemic. Care is also taken for the bearers of the cheques, for which very beneficial arrangements are provided. As I said before, the government is constantly assessing and updating support measures. An issue that needs to be addressed is the issue of compensation for tourist accommodation used as quarantine hotels, as well as for the companies "KELS SA", "TRAINOSE S.A.", tour operators and road transport operators with special public transport buses. Article 4 stipulates that the amounts of compensation paid to those undertakings by the public authorities in order to avoid the risk of transmission of the coronary are duty-free, unrestricted and inconsistent in the hands of the public or third parties, whereas they are not bound and offset by public, tax, local government, insurance funds and banks. The only exception is the dues to tax administration and non-regulated insurance funds. It is a necessary intervention because the undertakings concerned bear a significant cost in keeping with the particular health protocols associated with their operation. The government is aware of the reality created by the emergency needs and situations, as well as the difficulties faced by citizens to meet their tax obligations. Article 6 of the amendment enables the Minister of Finance to extend, in his decision, the time limits for payment of instalments of part-time payments of certified citizens' debts to the tax administration and to add them at the end of the existing arrangements, thus extending the total repayment period. This possibility is exercised in exceptional, unforeseen cases, such as pandemic, natural disasters, but also in other cases of emergency and force majeure. This enables the state to directly facilitate citizens to repay their debts by extending the relevant deadlines. Under Article 7, the Government is to extend the reduced rate of VAT to 6% by 30 April 2021 for specific goods linked to the effort to deal with the dispersion of the pandemic. Submission of these goods at the reduced rate of VAT 6% was made by the Act of Legislative Act of 20 March 2020, which was subsequently ratified by Article 1 of Law 4683/2020. It concerns goods such as antiseptic solutions and preparations, masks and gloves, ethyl alcohol, soap and similar articles. Finally, Article 11 contains a mandatory provision suspending until 30 November 2021 auctions, seizures and any act of forced execution for those affected by the earthquake of 30 October 2020 in Samos. Ladies and gentlemen, in the world community, the optimism for the vaccine is diffuse. Until then, the government has set two targets. The first is to protect the health of citizens and the second is to support businesses and workers in this difficult winter. This is a constant effort and requires a responsible attitude from everyone. The vast majority of Greek citizens perceive the importance and size of the effort. He appreciates the interventions, but also the manipulations of the government and Prime Minister, Mrs Mitsotakis. They may not like people who have invested everything in the destruction. The reality is, however, different. People'sism, irresponsibility and destruction were definitively defeated in Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u123	And we thank the Minister. Mr. Villard wants to ask you questions, Minister. He may also ask the Minister and any other MP he wants. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have a few questions and, first of all, for Article 1. Is the reduction of rents, which you have decided will only be in November, or will it also be in the next few months? Do you think it is right to do social policy with the money of others? Can you not see that here you are in a way more taxing property owners for the third time, instead of directly supporting tenants from the state? In Article 2 of the bill you write that 50% of the grant to the owners is for natural persons only. Are legal persons excluded? In Article 4, as regards the rents of the tourist accommodation you mentioned, you write that the public debts that have not been regulated are excluded. What exactly does it mean? Does it mean they should be regulated, otherwise they are not excluded? And if they cannot be regulated, what should they do? In Article 5, as regards gambling, our question is why you specifically refer to this category of professionals. Why do you only give these things to gaming business? Finally, Article 10 for the debts to suppliers of electricity, reasonably, in our view, relates to debts to PPC by government agencies for 2018 and 2019, and is now being given the option in part by advances that will be offset. Tell us if we're right or if we're wrong in our minds. Why are these debts not repaid? Is it a public liquidity facility from PPC? What's it gonna be? Have you calculated about what amount it is? Because we have not seen anything reported by the General Accounting Office of the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, too, Mr. Villardo. I don't see another Member want to ask questions. Here, Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. My colleague, the extension of the 40% cut in rent to the owners of businesses, who have been closed on a state-owned mandate or to workers who are suspended for their main residence, but also to the student residence of dependent members, is from November onwards. That's clear. 50% of the loss coverage for property owners is the same thing. As long as the measure of the 40% reduction is extended, the 50% loss will also be covered as a benefit.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u127	Only for natural persons, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u128	This measure for natural and legal persons has been in force since March. It doesn't change anything. As it was, that's how it keeps going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u129	One clarification I'd like to make. Do you consider it fair to support natural persons and not legal entities, i.e. companies that have real estate and rent them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u130	These decisions taken by the government are being taken at the expense of the financial costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Minister. I call in Stepa the special speaker of the KIC, Mr Manolis Synchronakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. And this year, despite the particular conditions due to the pandemic, the heroic annihilation of the Polytechnic is spectacularly celebrated. Terrorism and threats didn't get any place. A few hours ago, the Communist Party of Greece and the CNE held its symbolic gathering in front of the US Embassy and the "Freedom' park, while respecting all necessary protection measures. These events continue in diverse ways throughout the country, from Crete to Evros. The government has taken the answer to the dangerous and insidious attempt to load the labor popular movement responsibility for the spread of the virus. He got an answer to authoritarian deprivation and threats. It became a raffle card in practice, morally, politically and constitutionally, the government ban on meetings and the celebration of the Polytechnic School, sending out the message that the struggles of the people for health, work and life are neither forbidden nor suspended. "The Polytechnic lives outside the Americans", that is the motto that was heard in front of the American Embassy. That was the government's precursor, so the various willing ones ravaged, resorting again to primitive anti-communism and slander. They broke up because they did not want the course to go to the American Embassy, to this symbol of the country's sublime and suffering, for the partition of Cyprus, the sufferings and calamities of our peoples in modern history. Soon ago, the repression forces attacked the KKE's peaceful demonstration in the bulwarks, throwing flares, handcuffing demonstrators, while preventing the Secretary-General of the KKE, members of the political office, MPs of the party to contribute to the liberation of the protesters. We are now asking the government to release the demonstrators of a peaceful demonstration. It's a shame to turn the country into the black ages! The JRC recalls the words of Giannis Ritchos: "This is where the people are kneeling, only in front of their dead." He's paying his debt to the people. It pays tribute to those who stood up to the military dictatorship, who were tested in the horror of torture, exile, imprisonment, persecution and barracks. And it will continue to fight for the discharge, the redemption of the people from capitalist slavery, the dictatorship of capital. The government, then, instead of acting a card, instead of sending FMs to the streets terrorizing the people, let it send doctors to hospitals, teachers to schools and universities. Send the auditors to the workplace to protect the people and the youth instead of forbiding demonstrations. To forbid the "jogging" of the health of the people in which it is protagonists and to demand the private health sector here and now! We are now coming to the draft law we are discussing. Initially, it concerns Regulation 1150/2019 of the European Parliament on the promotion - allegedly - of fair treatment and transparency for business users of online mediation services. The whole of the regulation concerns the armouring of Euro-Union groups vis-à-vis those of the United States and China, in order to increase the volume of electronic commerce and electronic transactions, in order to balance the interests of the online groups and those whose services and products are moved online, either with their permission or without them. The strong impetus received during the lockdowns by e-commerce and e-commerce throughout the world is from the outset an investment outlet for overcompensated funds that can be invested at a satisfactory profit rate. The undisputed e-commerce facility to abolish time and spatial restrictions ultimately confers an advantage on monopolistic groups and contributes to the even more rapid concentration and concentration of capital, as illustrated by the example of industry colosses such as the US ‘AMAZON’ and the Chinese ‘ALIBABABA’. From this point of view, it is clear that the aim of ensuring equal conditions of competition in European businesses is not about self-employed and small CEE, who are hypocritically entering the same fate as the so-called medium-sized enterprises, as the European Union's statistics defines them. In fact, however, they are businesses that may have turnovers of tens of millions of euros. It is about how, with a bogeyman on the Euro-Union market, the competitiveness of European Union business groups will be shielded against their competitors. The JRC will vote 'at present' in this regulation. This is not about a confrontation between the Euro-Union and American groups on how to get rules into specific US monopolies within the European Union and the privileged forgery on web search engines. It has nothing to benefit the people from competition between them. We are not in the interests of the American groups, neither with Europeans nor Chinese nor anyone else. We are expressing our overall controversy with the strategy of capital. The draft law also provides for amendments to the regulations of Law 4712/2020 concerning the Interservice Market Control Unit, with the main objective of dealing with illegal trade, illegal e-commerce and the functioning of healthy competition. A post of commander is also set up at the DIAMEA by decision of the Minister concerned, executive it by auditors, and a register of auditors is also established and certified by a decision of the Minister. In our view, these amendments are reasonable. They do not change the nature and objectives of the law. Although the fight against the blockade is often propagandaed by governments as a board of salvation for small traders, it is in practice a mockery. That's why it's constantly reproducing. The root has never been hit, i.e. the big companies, the groups, which also have states behind them! Keep going to the merchandise marble! After all, under no circumstances do such controls deny the basic laws of the free market, the sovereignty of the larger companies vis-à-vis the smaller, that is, capitalist competition which leads the big fish to eat, nor of course does it deny the more general anti-grass policies. On the other hand, many times, and the self-employed small traders themselves can be turned into victims of this control, since in practice these mechanisms exercise all their rigour on the small, while the larger ones run away from it - so to speak - with trivial amounts. The result of these provisions is the large groups and losers of the working population. That is your whole philosophy and your ideology. Consumer protection from the trade is a pretext. Besides, L.4712/2020 speaks clearly and unveilably of goodwill and tax revenues, covering out who pays for the goodwill of trademarks and increasing tax revenues. Ultimately, the aim is to increase enterprises, speed up the concentration of enterprises, i.e. further destruction of self-employed and small enterprises. And here there is strategic convergence of the New Democracy, SYRIZA, the Change Movement. Some speak of equal competition and healthy competition, they play with words. Are the same mathematics and monopolies as micro-enterprises? Are the same supermarkets that are multinationals with the neighborhood manaves? Can a young man ever compete with the majestics? Obviously he can't. So you're making fun of the world when you say everything you say. And you think that, by means of measures to strengthen the Competition Committee, you will step on the blockade, and healthy competition will prevail. A mistake of erection! Also, the government continues SYRIZA’s work and over time all the governments for the dazzling of Sunday’s holiday. Provisions of the draft law attempt this very thing. I would remind you at the end of August 2019, when the Minister of Development, Adonis Georgiades, recognizing SYRIZA's contribution to the issue of hours' liberation, said: "I think the issue of Sundays has already been adequately regulated by the previous government." In other words, it keeps going to SYRIZA's anti-government work. This is also the case in the provisions of the draft law on the functioning of the market. Firstly, it legislates the voluntary opening of shops in areas less than five thousand inhabitants for micro-enterprises. Also legislate on the pilot opening of shops for all year round in three areas, which will be decided, as you say, under the responsibility of the Minister. This is a disgraceful process which photographs the opening up of commercial shops all Sundays in the near future, which is why the workers are obviously not allowed to do so. Secondly, people's markets are scheduled to function for up to six days a week, without being excluded on Sundays. It concerns the municipalities and regions of Athens and Central Macedonia. Until now they were running from Monday to Saturday. This is an indirect step towards abolishing the Sunday holiday in another sector. It enables local counter-regions and municipalities to decide on the days and hours of operation of the people's markets, as they have done in a number of such cases, in order to meet the needs of the consumer, as they say, the consumer needs today. Obviously, we're vertically opposed. The problem of traders is not their few hours of work. Self-employed people are forced to follow the laws of the jungle, which have been legislationd in particular in recent years, and are concerned with the full release of working hours, economic suffocation with the exorbitant expenses and debts of endless obligations and re-employment. They are calling for Sunday's holiday to be safeguarded and for the abolition of laws and provisions which release the hours. I think it should also be cleared up in the draft law - and we have put it in committee - what will be the composition of the people's markets - industrial, agricultural, fisheries, and what it will be about. Will it concern existing sellers or new ones, if and when new licenses are granted? Now, with regard to the ministerial amendments that have been tabled and which, as a whole, are greater in volume and articles than the draft law itself - the government understands the principle of good legislature, as did SYRIZA in its governance - not all of them. I reserve my dentistry. I will only refer to Amendment No 560/38, which deals with matters relating to the competence of the Ministry of Health to deal with COVID -19. In all five articles, the government invokes emergencies. Are there any emergencies? Of course there are emergencies. If we were in February 2020, we would be able to talk about it, although - and much more ahead - the health system was far behind the real needs. It is now nine months and while you find that the system is at its limit, you continue to have deficits, not only of ICU beds, but also of common beds, doctors, other staff. Even if they open up new ICUs, what kind of staff are you going to do with these? It's worth it to tell us how to send them. However, what the provision confirms is that before the health system was inadequate by health officials. And now you're going to solve this with temporary staff and pensioners. These are dead-end measures, which continue in the middle of a second pandemic wave. Why? Because you want to deal with the problem at no cost, for the strengths, as you say, of the capitalist economy. For Article 1 - to cross the articles - regarding the recruitment of subsidiary medical, nurse or assistant personnel, you say you will get staff for one year. You're gonna take this staff. Then what are you gonna do with it? You're gonna throw them out like a bunch of lemon worms! Apart from all others, it is not a question of young people, but of replacing what has ended their contracts. Why do you not hire permanent staff to derogate from all the provisions? After all, this staff is not only useful now in pandemic conditions. This staff will also serve after the pandemic. Besides, all health care needs left behind - surgery and so on - will exist in the multitude and after the pandemic. It is therefore the responsibility of all of you, of all governments, today's misery, as a criterion you always keep putting the cost above human life. So whatever tools you used in the past, you are using the same tools now in the middle of a pandemic. For Article 2, which concerns the movement of health workers from the private sector to hospitals and health centres on the basis of volunteering through the conclusion of fixed-term contracts by private doctors, I would say that such a procedure was already under way. For example, in Thessaloniki only five doctors had declared participation until three days ago and this picture is not going to be changed irresponsiblely. While the need runs and everyone knows that staff is not enough even with the movements you make from health centers, other units, you continue the strayed, the same deadlocked policy that will bring even greater negative consequences. Instead of satisfying the mature need for retraining in the private sector and private doctors, you are obliged to invite them voluntarily. And if they don't want - they don't want to go - what happens then in this case? The same dead end again. In Article 3, for the use of retired doctors in the ESS, you are in the same sense, in the same direction. You suggest measures with your head down and your feet up. You've hired the available staff and you think it's not enough, so we can use the retired doctors as well? Oh, no! If you had hired all the staff available, then yes, we were indeed thinking about this measure of exploitation, namely pensioners. But you follow this unorthodox way in the logic of cost. So these people, look out, are elderly, probably with underlying illnesses. So who are you going to rely on? And without any sign of shame, what are you doing? To those who come, accept this solution, you make them a 30% cut in their pension. That is, we are talking about patches with materials that are not going to bring any effect at all. In Article 4, on the health coverage of uninsured persons, the issue, you know, emerged with the exclusive report of "RIZOSOPASTI" and "902" on the refusal of EKAB to Thessaloniki to provide uninsured patients. This directive came as a follow-up to the amendment by the Ministry of Health that passed a few days ago and with the votes of SYRIZA. An amendment providing that private clinics will only accept insured persons and be compensated by the EEA. In other words, hospitals will choose who to send not the seriousness of their health, but whether they are insured or uninsured. All this can now be nice in relation to the uninsured that you will now cover them with an amendment, but it also has the wicked means of doing so. For example, you have two hospitalized, and this clinic is for COVID. Why should the uninsured person be authorised by the President of the EKA? What is the President of the EMCDDA doing to judge whether he should carry out a medical examination or whether he should be introduced into the clinic? So the valves that the provision puts in place actually lead to the exclusion of uninsured persons. Besides, shouldn't you explain to us how the insured insurers became? Who threw them on the margin? Didn't all of these guys in the past give insurance contributions? Where did these contributions go? That is why the JRC says that health should not be linked to the insured and uninsured dilemma. Public and free access must be for everyone. And I shall end, Mr President, by thanking you for the tolerance with Article 5, for the treatment of hospital equipment, respirators, beds, other equipment, etc. Now you remember doing it? You'll never tell me it's not too late. In the first phase of the whole America, i.e. the metropolitan city of capitalism, he said he could not cover the hospitals with respirators. Now that the spread of the world is growing, you're coming after nine months and you say we're probably gonna need some equipment. Why didn't you take these necessary measures when you were supposed to, that is, at the beginning? We don't think you should take the measures, to God, no misinterpretation. But you are implementing a policy by seeing and doing it. That is why we also tell you, together with everything else, that there must be an excess of material and equipment in the health system. So we are telling you that even at this very last moment, the public health system with all available personnel will be served by permanentisation. If it is not enough, that is not enough, check the private sector, infrastructure and staff and integrate them into state regulation. For all these reasons, in any case, we are voting 'at present' in this amendment. The'representatives' reflects the criticism as we have already formulated it. I do not remember if I told you about the draft law at first we were voting against. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u133	He has asked for the floor for an intervention, I imagine, by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Alexis Haritsis. After that, the Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, Mr Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u134	Mr President, the reason why I asked to speak is because we are aware that incidents took place some time ago in the centre of Athens. Police attacked a peaceful gathering of members of the Communist Party of Greece. We are asking the government and the police to stop investing in the exacerbation of tension. We demand that the defendants be released. In fact, it is even a question of pre-contrasting Members of the Communist Party. All the events that have taken place since this morning by both SYRIZA and the KKE and Mera25 have been events in which all health rules have been fully respected. At the moment a health bomb in the center of Athens unfortunately is the fact that six thousand policemen have been transported from all over Greece this day by the Minister for Civil Protection and the Government. That's the problem right now. This is the health bomb and not peaceful, guarded concentrations, which observe all health protection measures. Let all the incumbents be released and finally stop throwing oil into the fire by its stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like to denounce government authoritarianism, to denounce the unacceptable and unnecessarily intervening of the police, the use of shine and the pre-concession of members of the JRC at a gathering at which all the health protocols were actually observed, as was done in the morning outside the US Embassy, as was done in the EBRD. The government's attitude is unacceptable. He proceeded to incubation. All applicants without conditions and conditions must be immediately released. From this point of view we want to denounce the hypocrisy of the government to talk about the protection of public health and the prevention of crowdage when there is a protest by the Athens Police Association on aggregation through the mission made by the Chief of Police when we see photos - and put them side by side - the policemen who are conspired in the streets of Athens and in the various regions with protesters celebrating the polytechnic celebrations, to see who keep the health protocols, when they are cut, are supposed to protect public health in public transport, when health and safety measures are not complied with at work. We are saying this clearly, and we are calling here and now for the immediate release of all the defendants and the completion of the JRC's initiative in the bunkers with no tensions, no trabbouts, no violence and no police rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Bukouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, it is well known that every complaint of abuse of power by this leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection is controlled. However, it must be made clear that these emergency measures in an emergency situation when the virus is mocking and leaving behind tens of our compatriots dead were only taken for health reasons. I understand the intention of some opposition parties to create impressions and take advantage of today's anniversary, but I do not accept from the party of Officer Response, which banned concentrations during the visit of former American President Barak Obama to Athens for two whole days, to move the finger for bans today. That is not acceptable. Of course, the incidents said by the HR Parliamentary spokesman do not know them because, I imagine, they evolved a few minutes ago. But it must also be made clear that no one is above the law. And what do I mean, Mr President? Only until yesterday were opposition parties talking about anti-constitutional decisions, because the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, a trade union body without even the meeting of the board, issued this announcement. Since yesterday, when the competent judiciary, the Council of State, decided that it was a constitutional decision, we hear nothing about constitutionality and unconstitutionality. This government does not adopt excessive violence or misuse of power. I repeat that every complaint is checked. However, while the whole country, all of us, all of our citizens, all of our health doctors, nurses and a health system that is pressed are trying to block the deadly virus, it is impossible to make an impression, an effort to impress and micropolitical approaches to a matter that concerns all Greeks, especially when the virus hits mainly the economic and socially weak, because they do not have the means to protect themselves. I'm not saying that a course will probably transmit the virus. In addition to what the Parliamentary Representatives of the Anti-Population Party parties have said, however, there were other checks in the center of Athens a little while ago, Mr President. And do you know what those checks were for? Shorts, anti-sufficient masks and molotovs, not of course from these parts...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u140	These are provocative things!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u141	Listen, Mr. Karathanasopou! Let me finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u142	It's unacceptable what you're doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u143	I didn't interrupt you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Karthanasopoulos, no one interrupted you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u145	What you're saying is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u146	I didn't interrupt you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u147	Rescind immediately!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, please! Nobody interrupted you! Keep going, Mr. Buquoir.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u149	I will conclude, Mr President, that I will not be interrupted as I have not interrupted them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u150	You're unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u151	Impressions!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u152	Impressions?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Karthanasopou, calm down, please! Nobody interrupted you. Here you go, Mr. Bukoro, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, do we have the right to speak or are they taking it away from us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u155	No, no one takes it away from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u156	First of all, I want to make it clear that I am talking about other controls. That's something I made clear. We are in the same Chamber and we should listen to what we say. I respond to the objections of all the parties in the opposition, as to whether measures should be taken or controls carried out. I have not mentioned any course and any organised event at any party. Stop wanting to create impressions from anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u157	And finish, Mr. Buquoir, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u158	That's it! Laws apply to everyone!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u159	Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, I was going to make this speech in my speech, but this debate has interrupted the flow of the sitting. I would like to read to you, Mr President, and I would like a small piece of yesterday's 'News' article from Costas Botopoulos'. I was sure it was going to happen today and I kept it in my file. So Kostas Botopoulos says: "Nothing justifies the downfall of legitimacy, not even an extraordinary social treaty. But this Treaty, if it exists, is necessarily changing the legal framework on non-legislative terms: as is in no way acceptable to violate the Constitution, the Constitution itself cannot be read in the sense of reality.’. That's what Costas Botopoulos says. I don't want to make any reference to legal matters here. I think that the thought of my colleague outside of Athens in constitutional law is embodied and he says it all, Mr President. Our point, ladies and gentlemen, is constitutionality? This has been a matter solved since March. I was not surprised when Vangelis Venizelos with e - kyklos and Antonis Manitakis with his discussions between the scientists of Cyprus and Greece had intervened on the constitutionality of the then bans, the bans of March and April. And I wasn't surprised, because in free and open societies to violate the right to freedom of movement, freedom of economic activity and other freedoms, which of course violate the lockdown, were matters of zeal, serious issues, global issues, and Greek science made its contributions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will conclude with this thought. However, the time has passed and we have reached the second wave of pandemic and the pre-dated debate in Parliament last Thursday. So while it was a different matter, two parties started, because they thought so - and we will not be forbidden to speak in this Chamber - and they raised the issue of the events for the sacred memory of the Polytechnic. Then the Prime Minister picked up a glove - very badly! - and, by standing the Members of Parliament, he explained to the Greek society that the law will be enforced. And here comes this police action that has been banned and done. The Prime Minister lifted up a glove that neither the Civic Opposition nor the Change Movement. I am proud to say that our President at that meeting, and without knowing what will happen, said that it is very right to stop everything, to protect public health, while the citizen is thinking of closing my business and dying financially or biologically. That's the citizens' dilemma! So when there is this dilemma in the citizens' minds, then Mrs Gennamas said - and quite rightly so - there must be specific arrangements. But, Mr President, it has hampered the government's aggressive attitude with the Prime Minister. And what did today come to show us next? That there have been some events since the morning - at least until a moment ago, because I don't know what happened now - everything has been going on properly. However, the government's ban did not go very regularly at all. Don't make any sense! And people say now, says a girl I heard on the radio: I went to testify a flower at the Polytechnic and ate 300 euros. The others? In other words, the government is creating the impression of two measures and two stations. Where's that going, Mr. President? We have held a very responsible attitude from the first moment. We know how to weight the legal goods. We have completed a move by the Prime Minister that has authoritarian features and played a game. In any case, Mrs Gennimata underlined the fact that there is no other division when other issues are dominated. I stress this position of responsibility today as Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement. I don't know what happened out there until three minutes ago. However, what has happened so far as I watched developments by about 14.00 p.m. was proof that you can pay tribute, but you can also regulate all these issues if you are a government, you can as a opposition party or any party to do the right things in honor of the holy memory of the Polytechnic. However, this whole controversy has been a barren and heartless confrontation and has exposed to those politicians who have taken part in the eyes of rational citizens who do not want it, because they are other things that concern them. They are primarily concerned with their health, as well as with their economic existence. Because after this pandemic, Mr President, many people unfortunately will not raise their heads.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u161	We are also closing this matter with this intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u162	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, would you allow me, too, to use the President's duties? The opinions have been heard. The debate on the Greek people is open. They defended positions from each other and the world judges and will draw its conclusions. I apologise to my fellow Member, Mr Villard, who was about to come to Stepma, because today is a special procedure. As we have said and agreed from the outset, there must be no crowding. I shall therefore give the floor to the Minister of Justice, Mr Chiara, to place him on the amendment under a general number of 556 and a special 34. This amendment concerns, among other things, the extension of the deadline for submitting statements of assets and economic interests - the so-called 'underground' - because of the pandemic and the weakness of colleagues - and not just - that exists. By using my capacity as chairman of the committee, I would like to say that documents have been lodged with me by all the bodies controlled and notified to the Minister, who immediately had the sensitivity to bring this amendment today, among other things, to me. I do not know, Minister, if the department responsible informed me of a legislative improvement a moment ago. I am making it clear that this extension does not concern Members. It concerns all persons controlled and all bodies. It is common and applies to everyone, because some want to create misunderstandings. That's for five and a half thousand judges. It's true for journalists. It applies to mayors, regional directors, officials of services, specifically controlled to combat so-called black money and to the competent committee led by Mr Bini, the independent Transparency Authority. I would like to clarify this, Minister, because we need to know that all this regulation which you are proposing today in Parliament - to say and remind colleagues - before being given to you, I, in the capacity I have discussed it at the Conference of Presidents and which was unanimous in supporting the Conference of Presidents in order to proceed with this amendment. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. The points you made just earlier are correct. Ladies and gentlemen, I am before the National Representation, precisely to analyse the four articles proposed by the Ministry of Justice Amendment. The first article concerns the extension until 28 February 2021 of the deadline for submission by the debtors of statements of assets and economic interests. The Vice-President has explained earlier and all these reasons, for which we have been led to the proposed regulation. It's real reasons, you know that. It's the pandemic period. It is the fact that there is a general restriction on traffic by 30 November. That is why this regulation is being proposed. I will testify to a legislative improvement, which has rightly come to us from the service of 'from the outset'. In Article 1 of number 556/34 with the date of deposit of 13-11-2020, the words ‘in 2020’ are replaced by the words ‘from 1-1-2020 to 30-11-2020’. You realise that this results from the need to have enough time for those who are responsible for 'from the outset' after 1 December, so that there is no question of it. With regard to Article 2 of the amendment, we propose that a specific procedure should be laid down for the appointment of a new court, in the event that the debate on the matter of any jurisdiction and of any procedure has not been given during its term of office from 6-11-2020 joint ministerial decision, which suspends the functioning of the courts and because of its application. In particular, it shall be laid down on its own initiative by an act of the President of the Chamber or the Judge on the day and time of the hearing at the hearing in the shortest available court. You realise that all these issues have been raised as a result of the limitation of the functioning of the courts. We are trying to ensure that there is no gap, that the rule of law operates in such a way as to make Greek citizens easier. Article 3 deals with questions relating to the disciplinary and judicial bodies of football. In particular, it shall be possible to set up the Disciplinary Committee of the NCA, which is of its Statute, the primary disciplinary body and shall be composed of former judges. The proposed amendment is necessary in order to make the functioning of football disciplinary and judicial bodies sound and effective. Article 4 is a transitional provision for the term of office of judges in the disciplinary and judicial bodies of football. This provision introduces a transitional provision concerning the term of office of the judges already serving in the abovementioned institutions and thus makes it possible to hear and determine cases in the disciplinary and judicial bodies of football by the committees already established, without, of course, giving rise to a delay in their judgment by any need to establish new disciplinary and judicial bodies. These are the four articles which deal with the proposed amendment by the Ministry of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Minister. In order to avoid further delay, I will give Mr Livano the floor for three minutes, because there are colleagues who want to ask about the amendment, Mr Minister, under the general number 561 and a special number 39. Immediately after that, colleagues, who have a few questions for both Ministers, can speak. Here, Mr Levanie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. For the amendment that the President has just mentioned, which concerns the Ministry of the Interior, it is all matters that need to be addressed immediately, and in particular for the local authorities of the first degree, it also gives them an important economic breath in view of the second phase of the pandemic that we are experiencing. Starting with Article 1, the issues of loans by municipalities to the Deposit and Loan Fund are regulated. In April 2020, we had taken the initiative, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Deposit and Loan Fund, to suspend three instalments of the municipality to the Deposit Fund. This possibility is now extended for another three instalments of December, January and February in the coming months. In addition, we give the opportunity to start their repayment in 2022 instead of in 2021. It was also a request from the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece, which we accepted in collaboration with the Deposit and Loan Fund. The second article is quite important, and I would say that it provides a way out, a temporary way out, to municipalities which, in particular, do not have municipal police to be able to - a legalistic system will also come, and it will be submitted within a short time, and it will be clear that it concerns only controls on the implementation of the coronary measures - to entrust administrative control tasks, in particular - I would say - health stores for a short period of time, so that there is no full burden on the Greek Police. This is mainly about cases where municipal police are non-existent or are completely subordinated. There are cases of municipalities that have one or two municipal policemen, where many of them already make use of special permits. The third article gives an extension to clear square declarations. Over 60 million square meters have been declared since the spring the platform was operational. This is a very important revenue for the municipalities. It was deadline 30-11-2020. It is extended until 31-1-2021. In other words, we are giving a two-month deadline for them to be cleared up. We are talking about 60 million square meters, an area like the island of Symi, a little larger than the Municipality of Paiania, where the favourable arrangements were now found and used to increase the revenues of the municipalities. Article 4 reintroduces the provision, which was in the first lockdown, so that - by a mayor's decision and always in the light of the respect of labour law, in respect of the payment of holidays - certain municipalities' services may be excluded from the five-day work. This is particularly useful in cases such as 'Help at Home', which operates seven days a week. Article 5 obviously excludes the payment of honorary municipal structures, which have been exempted, which have been temporarily suspended because of the measures taken by the pandemic, such as the utility. Article 6 is about compensation for school-leaving scrollers, which will continue to be paid even though schools are closed, as a minimum sign of recognition for those who do an important job for the safety of children. Finally, Article 7 does not only concern the Ministry of the Interior. It's about a lot of bodies and unions. We are giving an extension of their term of office for a period of time for the holding of elections. This is very important because there was a question of the legalisation of administrations by sports clubs, cultural clubs, exorbitant clubs and there were also strict implementation of the end of the term of office of the boards, which created problems even in disbursing, for example, money from an account, because the term of office of the board of directors was over and because of the pandemic measures they could not hold elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Katrinis has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u168	Mr President, I will resist the temptation to comment on the provision where the mayor turns an official into a municipal officer, because he reminds me of other times - remember, Minister - where the mayor went and said he was a sheriff on his own decision and with his star and nailed it. I want the Justice Minister to ask a question. I heard the Prime Minister on Thursday that announced suspension of first home auctions. I, to tell you the truth, waited for the Ministry of Justice's current provision on this subject to say that the auctions are suspended. The Prime Minister announced it on Thursday. What is more reasonable in the first bill to come into force in the House of the suspension of auctions? Of course, to be fair, the ministerial decision of 6 November is suspended. So, Mr President, a serious matter arises here. The Prime Minister announces something that his ministers have already signed, for reasons of communication and not essential. That is the reality, Minister. We should talk about it in this Chamber, because the Greek citizens are listening to us, to know who says what, if he is responsible and serious, as he wants to say. Also, Minister, the President of the Council has rightly clarified this in order to suspend the submission of statements 'positively' and to extend them. But also to Law 4745, which we voted on last week, as the party responsible for making statements 'wherever you are concerned', is inconvenience and those who will be subject to the provisions of Law 4745 on speeding up the courts of Katseli, who must be contacted to the banks, to obtain paper, to the tax. So this cannot be extended, because the very hardship that Members, mayors, officials and all, in order to collect the cards from the banks, have the same difficulty as the citizen who has to apply to speed up his trial and at the same time within a month, collect all these documents from the banks, the IUUs, the insurance funds, which are inaccessible. I therefore think that you should, by analogy, bring in a provision amending the deadlines for applying and collecting documents from those responsible for the courts under Law 3869. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u169	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u170	Dear Mr. Comrade, with all due respect to your face, I will tell you that you are in a hurry. I think the government has shown all the necessary reflexes throughout this period and has confirmed it in every possible way. On the one hand, on the issue of auctions, as you rightly said, you know that by 30 November it is essentially on the basis of the joint ministerial decision, since no auctions are being made. The Prime Minister himself has announced that as long as there are all the problem situations in the pandemic, there will be no auctions. So I think the remark is by far. For the second thing you told me about, if you had followed the bill, you would know that all these procedures are beginning in December. We are here, watching what is going on, you see that we are coming in time, we are giving an extension for "outside obscurity", you see that in time we take all measures and all the predictions, so that there are no problems for Greek citizens and we can create a sense of security in the Greek society. You realise that, if and if necessary, depending on the development of the pandemic, we will do everything possible to protect - if you like - the basic rights of Greek citizens, but also, of course, to give them a sense of security that Greece, our country, is a rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u171	Mr Katrin, you have the floor to say something, so that you don't think you're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u172	I, Minister, respect what you say. However, since the deadline for 'avoiding' said on November 30th and the new law starts, notice: While it expires on November 30, when it expires on November 30, when it is closed and pandemic conditions, you do not extend it until December 30, for example, but you take it until February 2021, and for those who have to collect the data from December 1st, you do not say that the start of application is even on January 1st. I'm not talking about February 1st. In other words, four months for those responsible 'outside', you say and you are sure that we will have a lockdown and the conditions will be the same now that they had to collect the data in these fifteen days, but you carry it three months later, while for those who have to collect the documents, you do not have a provision. I think you should see it again, Minister, now, not on 1 December. You should see it again and transfer by at least one month the start date of the law and the collection of data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u173	You are using the example a little wrong. The Minister heard the request for another matter. On my own recommendation and with unanimous support from the Conference of Presidents, we said that firstly we do not know the end. November 30 is an initial date. We all hope that the measures will be brought to an end and that this very difficult situation will be brought to an end for everyone. In December 30, I want to tell you that it's not a good date, it's a holiday day. Because we have before us a pandemic test, which we do not know how it is, the Conference of Presidents unanimously supported the proposal for 28 February. The other thing the Minister will see, and he will appreciate it accordingly, and I don't know if he wants to take the floor again so that they won't be empty. On this occasion, I would like to say that many colleagues - and not only, but also other categories of controlled judges, judges, etc., of local authorities - have received notes, because retrospective checks are carried out, as you know, in 2015, 2016, 2017, 2017 and 2018, i.e. financial years 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, for twenty-one thousand five hundred controlled. You understand the tumor. They have taken some colleagues - not only but also other categories - to clarify some things and perhaps to complete some of them. This note is also mentioned on 30 November. I'll clarify that. It is not a matter of regulation. This is a matter for me as chairman of the committee. And this date, for the completion of elements of the old, retrospective control, clarification and cooperation - the good work that exists - between service, controlled and sworn, is extended - for those who have taken, not everyone took, because the road from retrospective control is too long - until 28 February. I say this to hear others because others are watching us. That is why we have also received an electronic notification of those who took such notes about the retrospective old control. The Minister has the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, you can understand, with all the explanations that the President-in-Office had to give, how many issues had to be planned to come to a specific date. In the same way, I would like to assure you that the government stands with responsibility and seriousness with regard to all the issues relating to the problem of pandemic. We all know very well what is going on and I assure you that, if necessary, any measures will be taken. There are specific deadlines. There's an active DSA by November 30th. You realise that we are adapting any subsequent options to the evolution that we see on the basis of what is happening around us and on the basis of what we have to deal with. All the other things you realise have no reason to confront between us or any further debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u175	And now after a long time I will invite the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr. Vassiliardos Viliardos and then the special speaker of Mera25, George Logiadis. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, we will begin by saying that it is regrettable that some parties are struggling with the anti-judgmental struggle and the sacrifice of students who participated in the Polytechnics, of course coming from all the political shades, as was the case in the uprising of the law a few months ago, which we should not forget either. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] However, the revolt on November 17, November, had two contradictory elements. Firstly, on the one hand, people unselfish with true love for democracy and their homeland. Secondly, on the other hand, people who initially used it with a view to their personal promotion and later as a means of raising them in the field of professional politicians, to those who led Greece to its present fate. In today's bill there were two originals. Firstly, it was posted in DIAVIGATION without permitting comments, so there was no one and we did not understand the reason for his post, nor the cause of the ban on comments. Secondly, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, who is unfortunately not here, with the rudeness with which he has spoken, said that we should express our views only on the changes that the Minister has added and not on all the articles of the bill. It obviously fails to understand the obvious that, on the one hand, it has no right to censor anyone and, on the other, that when a bill is tabled, it is put to the vote again, since the Minister could change it, but if he wanted only a few amendments, he would do so with a simple amendment. Incidentally, assuming that the Minister insists on the usefulness of the funding of ELIAMEP that he introduced into the first blockage bill, we would like his opinion on the interview of ELIAMEP’s partner, Mr. Jogopoulos, who will table in the Minutes, in which he said that Greece is threatening Turkey. He said exactly that Greece is threatening Turkey. Of course he's not here, but we assume he'll be briefed by his Deputy or by someone else. Continuing, we think that the New Democracy should sometime stop believing that it is possible to govern a country with the constant deposit of bills, especially in the situation of the internal troika. Acts and not drafts are required, and each bill should be accompanied by a small analysis of the current situation in the sector, but above all by the objectives set by the Minister with the changes and the additional costs he proposes. In the example of the DEME, which aims to combat the blockade, we would expect a position of the Minister first on the size of the blockade - we have heard from other bodies how it is estimated at 15 billion annually - and, secondly, on the objective of reducing it with the help of the EMEA, its staff and its draft laws. In simple terms, we would expect the Minister to tell us how much he appreciates the impediment and tax evasion through the blockade in Greece. Why creates the DIAMEA by replacing the previous service, the SADCAP? What will the DEME cost in staffing and equipment? But above all, what will it achieve with these extra costs? How much, in other words, does it intend to limit the blockade and tax evasion, and how much will it benefit taxpayers? To tell us specific and practical, as he would do in his own business that would invest his own money. If we do not treat Greece like this, we will never go better, but constantly worse. We have, however, voted for his first draft law on the development of our economy, but we have not seen any growth. On the contrary, the exit of Greek and foreign businesses from the country continues, while the recession deteriorates, as we have often established, even before the outbreak of the pandemic. As we have now mentioned in the first committee and asked the two questions which have largely remained unanswered, but there is no need to repeat them, in the first part of the current draft law there are some provisions implementing the European Union directive No 1150/2019. This directive concerns electronic mediation platforms between undertakings in the European Union, such as the agency supervising them, i.e. the IMI and the fines it imposes. We stressed that Article 5 acquired control over and access to the confidential data of the mediation service provider relating to general and vague supervision of whether the European Union regulation is complied with, not to cause harm to a natural or legal person. This fact has been said to be an unfair and non-liberal intervention of the state within an operation. We asked, without getting an answer, whether the possibility of processing bank data at the IMEA will be provided and what limits. We have completed that the scope of sanctions is unrealistic and arbitrary, without reference to a fine amount per specific infringement, which is proportionate to the damage caused, namely that every penalty should be proportionately shaped on the basis of the percentage of the provider's turnover, so as to avoid the extermination of a businessman who can cause staff to do so, as is usually the case with many public services. We concluded that although the application of Community directives is an obligation for our country, should the government at some point bring its own bills with a national vision and a realistic plan for the development of our economy rather than simply do just what they say to it? In the second part there are some arrangements for the EMEA, which relate to recruitment and transfer of staff, without corresponding objectives, as we mentioned. There are no targets anywhere. It is supplemented by the bill on the blockade, which was submitted relatively recently in the House, substantiating its curiosity, since they had not been foreseen. The third part concerns the Competition Committee with arrangements for the collection of revenue and its operation. We have asked here a number of questions to its head, such as the high telecommunications charges in Greece, which are the most expensive in the European Union. We have received the answer that the Competition Committee is not responsible, but only the National Telecommunications and Post Commission. This is all happening in Greece and Mexico! Only in Greece and Mexico! Why, really? With regard to the high debits of the cartel, as he himself called it, he said there is an investigation that usually lasts four years on average eight months, during which apparently the shame of the controlled ones continues. We also asked about the service budget, especially because Article 17 of the draft law provides for State support, while private bodies are authorised by Article 16. Unfortunately, we did not receive a specific answer either when it comes to impartiality, when it comes to private sector revenue. The fourth part concerns the hours of shops on Sundays and holidays, as well as issues on the people's markets. We hope, of course, that the shops will be opened in time for Christmas, because otherwise the destruction of our trade and our economy in general will be a complete disaster from the lockdown, without even asking the House for preliminary reasons. In Denmark, however, the Prime Minister had been accused of not submitting the decision of the first lock in the House and of the measures taken, while an inquiry was being carried out. In Greece why not? In the fifth part, there are certain provisions on the enforcement of Union law by extra-parliamentary procedures. Continuing, the first part of the draft law with the 7 articles on the implementation of the European Directive in relation to electronic intermediation platforms between undertakings, concerns the following companies established in the European Union and are addressed to European Union consumers. First, providers of online mediation services. They are called online intermediation service providers, such as Amazon Marketplace, Facebook Marketplace, e-bay, etc., while there are a few Greeks. Secondly, online search engine providers such as Google, Bing, Yahoo, etc. The original European Union directive, which we tabled on its first page in the Minutes - it is well to read the original directives - included other issues, such as the use and protection of personal data of businesses and consumers from the platform, where national legislation is proposed here. We have several reservations about the completeness of national legislation, while Greece is in the European Union's last position, unfortunately, as regards the safety of business computing systems in EUROSTAT. The directive also refers to the restriction, interruption or suspension of the association of companies with the platforms, which is extremely important, especially in the event of the creation of monopolies which can impose unilateral conditions. In Greece, having seen the strength of large businesses, such as the Dieselgate scandal, we do not feel sure that there will be protection for small businesses and consumers. In the case of dieselgate, Germany has apparently forbidden Greece to claim compensation, let alone when there are increases in basic goods already, obviously because of the concentration in a few e-commerce, as well as the shortcomings, as we will have tabled in the Minutes, for which we have warned. At a future stage now, there will also be the possibility of internal mediation, which we have expressed our objections to, because it will in fact be a parallel justice which is applied to the United States and which has created many problems for its citizens. On an international level retail sales of electronic commerce have been launched and continue to grow, particularly in the midst of the pandemic, as in Greece, where according to BSE data, during the first locking of the economy the turnover of e-commerce has spread. Therefore, apart from speeding up the redistribution of incomes from the bottom up, the pandemic largely favoured the technological companies and the digital economy, noting that from 2018 to July 2020, the wealth of billionaires active in high technology increased by 42.5% to 1.8 billion dollars, according to UBS figures, while in the health sector by 50.3%, 658.6% billion dollars. At the same time, people living below the limit of absolute poverty, with less than $1.9 a day, increased by four hundred million, with a cumulative loss of income of 350 billion dollars. Something similar happened in Greece, where only the households lost the second quarter income of 3.9 billion euros, while the benefits they receive will be called back to the multiplier, as is the case with the loans of the memorandum. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The new bankruptcy law passed in the middle of Lockdown substantiates that the government has completely lost its contact with reality, which is also seen in the amendment to the rent cut and the 50% compensation, contrary to the instalments of housing loans granted as a whole for the benefit of banks. Why are only natural persons compensated, as far as the owners are concerned, and not legal persons? Is it a liberal measure? We asked the State Secretary. We have not received any answers at all, as of course even in our other questions regarding the regulation of PPC, hotels, gambling. Strangely in gambling we always take action. We believe that much needs to be started for the protection of businesses and consumers in Greece in terms of electronic transactions and e-commerce, with the aim of safeguarding them, reducing supplies and imposing the digital tax. On the other hand, it takes great attention to ensure that strong groups do not prevail, by controlling the market, by urging all of us to the detriment of and by depriving the state of revenue. Finally, the big problem with the bill is the tabling of personal data in too many articles, such as Article 1 where we asked whether it included online auction service providers, since in such a case it is obvious to violate personal data, because everyone can see the auctions that are posted on a daily basis. In particular, searches for confiscation reports and actions are now carried out by the website deltio.tnomik.gr to which everyone can access. This obviously violates the personal data of borrowers who are unable to serve their obligations, in the majority of cases because of the policy of the memorandum - it is not their fault - on the one hand because of the country's bankruptcy by its governments, on the other hand as a result of the mismanagement of the crisis from 2010 onwards, which, of course, is still mismanaged.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u177	Finish it, Mr. Villardo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u178	In any case, these people are in an unpleasant position to auction their real estate in common, while in addition to this everyone can have access to their personal data, such as their VAT and we consider this unacceptable. Even worse, with a simple reading on the internet of the confiscation report, anyone who wants to be informed in detail about those debts of the borrower, who led to the auctioning of his assets and also of the full assets or other assets of the asset incorporated in this process. In this regard, we conclude by saying that we are sure that no member of the government - there is no one - would want to be in such a position, so it would reasonably vote against such a provision and the bill if the Prime Minister did not demand the opposite. When the Prime Minister is here, of course, they're all here. Of course we are voting against the bill for all the reasons we have mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr. Villard. Mr. Logiades will be a little patient in giving the floor to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Karamanlis, for Amendment No 557/35, which deals with the implementation of projects to restore affected regions of the region of Thessaly from the Mediterranean Cyclone 'Janus'. Minister, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have asked for the floor in order to present to the House the amendment we tabled with a general number of 557 and a special 35, which concerns the restoration of infrastructure in the region of Thessaly, due to the damage caused by the unprecedented disasters by the 'January'. As you know, since the first moment of these phenomena, the stages of the Ministry of Infrastructure, consisting of two hundred seventy-seven engineers, were in the area and until the beginning of October, with extremely rapid procedures, almost six and a half thousand autopsies and damage assessments took place in the regions of Central Greece and Thessaly. In this context, in order to move forward with the restoration of infrastructure, it is essential that a number of projects which now fall within the competence of the Region of Thessaly, such as large road infrastructure and bridges, should be subject to the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure, which, Mr President, we have also done in the case of Evia. In other words, we are introducing a special, faster and more effective process of integration of these projects, as they are infrastructure projects critically and necessary. We are doing everything possible, in other words, in the legal sphere, to serve the public interest, and Thessaly has the infrastructure that it really deserves, after such a great disaster, without waiting, as in other cases, for these infrastructures not to be restored. We therefore provide for short award procedures, in accordance with public procurement legislation and environmental legislation, as well as for the possibility of triggering Article 7A for any necessary forced expropriations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Minister. The special speaker of Mera25 George Logiadis is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are commemorating the memory of the Polytechnic insurrection and resisting today's bonds and the Memorandum of Route that stumbles us. The fifth memorandum is already here. Each Polytechnic catalyses all authoritarianism. Today we are discussing the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment on online mediation services, i.e. the Internet service. We're talking about web platforms, providing goods, services and information exchange services. These platforms provide possibilities, such as search engines, e-commerce, social networking, and computational cloud services. By incorporating the directive, it is attempting to build a regulatory framework of operation, which will ensure paymentable users of these services and consumers, in the final analysis. Technology creates new opportunities and new markets, but it also brings new and many inequalities. Inequality will be created among those who can have power, knowledge, means, tools to invest and adapt, to evolve and to those who do not have them, will remain enslaved in the world of the past, in a world that changes at huge speeds. And this is going to get more and more intense worldwide. We are seeing an explosive growth in e-commerce in Greece and worldwide. Mr Karanikas, President of the EUSY, says that the full digitisation and exploitation of e-commerce are still privileged fields for some large and highly predicted and digitally advanced domestic and multinational companies. The Commission is examining how ‘AMAZON’ has recently used sensitive trader data to promote goods from specific retailers directly to the ‘basket’ of consumers, i.e. manipulation of free internet trade and abuse of power, its power. 'AMAZON' disagrees with these accusations of the Commission and may request a closed hearing procedure to defend its policies. The Merra25 was and is always against these closed procedures, as you well know. The main shareholder of "AMAZON" Jeff Bezos within a week, from 30-10-2020 to 6-11-2020, had a profit of EUR 15 billion. Article 4 of that draft law defines as the competent supervisory authority for the implementation of the European Union Regulation the Market Control Unit, the EMEA. As MERA25, we stand by the fact that the competent supervisory authority, the DIAMEA, is the agency that was set up to combat the trade. We are particularly sceptical about whether this service can deal with this internet-based titanium surveillance and control work. The provisions of the bill may be provided for positions for further service, but it is precisely because the issue is extremely specific, but also particularly topical, because of the pandemic and the limitation of the natural market, we believe that the strengthening of the service provided for in the bill is incomplete. We insist that on-line services are the future and because of pandemic, in many cases, the present market, which will be placed under a supervisory control mechanism only by name, since the IMIF cannot play the supervisory role assigned to it by the bill. We believe that the monitoring of the digital market will follow the path of general market surveillance, both digital and physics, by the Competition Committee. It is simply a principle, a service, etc., that is to say, that is, without funding, a staffing and logistics infrastructure to carry out its role. The government does not really want to strengthen public services for two reasons. The first is that such well-functioning authorities and agencies would hamper the circumvention of the market, in which large business groups, at the same time the Mitsotakis Government's orders. The second is that, for ideological reasons, the enthusiasts of the free economy, competition and self-regulation cannot accept that in order for competition and the free market to function, the state needs to intervene in order to ensure them. The very existence of the Competition Committee breaks down the myth of self-regulation. In Article 5, ‘customs and penalties’ means that the IMIM has the power to impose on providers of online internet services a fine of EUR 1,500 to EUR 2 million. Georgios Kavathas, President of the Board of Directors of the General Confederation of Professionals, Crafts, Traders of Greece, said that the fines imposed by Article 5 are arbitrary and very dangerous. This is what Mr Hatzidosios of the CSCE said, that the criteria of the fines must be data. I am referring to Article 5 of the draft law, which says that these fines have such a wide range, from EUR 1,500 to EUR 2 million. How is the amount of the fines fixed? If a businessman doesn't have an employee insured, he knows what a specific fine he'll pay. If anyone makes a road traffic code breach, he knows what he'll pay. If anyone doesn't wear the mask today, he knows what a fine he'll pay. Over here the range is uncontrolled and this can be a product of conciliation. I have with me the corresponding German bill, the whole text, which has nothing to do with Greek. For example, he does not mention anything at all about these fines. There is no hint in the entire German bill. It has nothing to do with ours, of course. Article 12(4) states that the chemical analysis division is responsible for chemical organoleptic analysis of olive oil without mentioning any other product. We ask ourselves: will olive oil be controlled? Are there no other products that can be distorted? Article 14 provides for the establishment and maintenance of the organisational positions of the DIAMEA. There is a legal framework which defines the mobility of civil servants, transfers and secondments. But, here, we must stress that the public does not know how many employees it has, nor what qualifications and capabilities they have and where they might make better use of them. In public there is no mapping of the people who serve it. Article 16 for the Competition Committee stipulates that public limited liability companies set up or increased their share capital shall be charged a fee of 1, calculated on the basis of the share capital or on the amount of the increase in the share capital in favour of the Competition Committee. We consider, as Mera25, that in this way, payment by the auditor, he reminds of old times, and it is not right to pay something that is, in fact, the Greek State's obligation, as the President of the Hellenic Retail Business Association said. We are particularly focused on the question of the revenues of the Committee on Competition and the prudential control of expenditure by the Court of Auditors and not on the repressive, as laid down in Article 17(3). The key role of the Committee on Competition must be emphasised in the proper functioning of the market, in the protection of small and medium-sized enterprises and in the unfair practices of each industry, in the protection of consumers. We also note the need to modernise the Competition Committee's infrastructure in order to be able to meet the challenges of the digital market. In the draft law, further mention is made of the possibility of financing the Competition Committee from non-profit-making institutions, such as international scientific and research bodies. Our wording creates reasonable questions. PART25 considers the mission of the Competition Committee to be extremely important and any sources of revenue should not cause it to be dependent on business groups. In the second part of the bill, the fourth part concerns provisions on the functioning of the market. The bill brought by the Ministry of Development and Investment paves the way for the operation of commercial stores all on Sundays of the year. We are easing the obsession of the government and the Minister with the opening of shops on Sundays. Also, this bill allows the people's markets to operate on Sundays, which so far is not allowed. Let's go to Article 18 for Sundays in small businesses. Stresses Mr. Megoulis, the Director and Legal Adviser of the Hellenic Confederation of Trade and Entrepreneurship: "We want to ensure that a specific provision does not constitute a coup d'état so that big companies can treat the measure so that they can increase their intervention and the shares of their turnover on local markets." Also on Article 19 he points out: "Yes, we want the people's markets to work on Sundays because they simply become Sunday games. To be limited to land and sea products.’ And he continues: "Already since 2006..." - then applies to the people's markets a.d. 51 - "...there was the provision that stated that 90% of new permits would be granted to land and sea products and only 10% to lasting products, industrial products." Of course, we ask ourselves this 90% and 10% how it is documented and who controls it. And in order not to forget the practices of the past, it was a very good roustetti that a popular market licence should be issued. Or is this the case where we referred to industrial products for permits so that they too could be sold in contravention of the original logic of the people's markets? We need to see the historical development of the people's markets in Greece, how they started when Greece was another main agricultural country. The grower - producer wanted a cheap way, an easy way, directly to sell the products on his site. But this has changed for a long time and we see that, by magic, the final law passed in Parliament was replaced by a wishlist, which says that the authorities should take care to avoid disrupting the character of agri-food products on the people's market. The GFCM states in this regard that the introduction of provisions allowing even voluntary operation of shops and popular markets on Sundays is being circumvented for all workers of all kinds and employing the right to free time and the enjoyment of the individual and the public with their families as a regular break in weekly work. And the President of the Athens Chamber of Commerce, the ESA, stresses that "the world needs no time, needs money". I would urge the government, the Ministers, to look at, to look directly at the pensions for too many beneficiaries who, for too long, have been waiting for very many months, even years, for poor pensions to live. How do these people live? Mr. Besyropoulos mentioned the religious reasons for the bill in his speech earlier. I, too, will stress that I, as a Orthodox Christian, regard Sunday holidays as a holiday. Finally, what can I say again about the amendments brought by the government at the last minute? It calls for regular tactics to bring everything along without consistency. You brought an amendment from the Ministry of Sports, you brought an amendment from the Ministry of Interior, you brought an amendment from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, you brought an amendment from the Ministry of Justice, you brought an amendment to the incorporation of the public investment budget in 2021 into a major category of budget and, finally, you brought an amendment from the Ministry of Finance, namely a little of everything. It's an incomprehensible way of making good legislation. We are voting against the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u183	Thank you too, Mr Loyadis, for keeping time. Just like you're always standard. Before giving Mr Haritsis the floor, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its reports on the draft laws of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food: A. ‘Following the Memorandum of Understanding in Agriculture between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Kuwait’ and B. "Preparation of the Loss of Consultative Services Convention - Strategic Planning and Action for Agriculture with the transformation of rural areas (SPARTA) between the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development". Mr Alexis Haritsis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today is a day of memory. We remember and honour the Polytechnic uprising, the day that our people, our youth demanded democracy. The Polytechnic School of 1973 is one of those moments that condensate historical time. People risk their lives in pursuit of the impossible, mixed with the sovereign. It was an undertaking bold because, as the radical seven-seven-seven-seven-seven poet Andreas Calvos had written, "the freedom will be virtue and bold." This is the message of yesterday's uprisings that freedom, democracy, life itself want a constant struggle, a bold struggle and a vision. But the Polytechnics, let me say, is not an anniversary of a museum character. It's not just about yesterday. It is about today and tomorrow. And this dimension, unfortunately, has been very well understood in recent days. We were reminded by the authoritarian actions of the government, a government which, on the pretext of the pandemic, imposed, for the first time after the post-collection, essentially a suspension of articles of the Constitution. It's a provocative and provocative choice. It is challenging because for months the opposition as a whole, but above all, the same Greek society, has been respecting health measures with responsibility and solidarity. And it's also provocative because it's trying to split, create tension, destabilize. The pandemic is the pretext. The essence is the intolerance of the government to the messages and the symbolism of the Polytechnics. This intolerance has historical roots with regard to extreme voices and within the New Democracy party. But here, it's not just a story. This is a matter of the present. Because the government conflicts with the core of the polytechnic message. Because nowadays the request for democracy takes the form of strengthening public, accessible by all, a health system, safety at work and respect for labour rights, democratic open-ended education and not returning to an obsolete overconservative model of punishment. For this reason, the Polytechnic, in persuasiveness of those who saw the opportunity to end this, will continue to illuminate the struggles of our people and our youth. That is why we are honouring it this year. But we are all aware of this - in a very special treaty. And from the outset we have made it clear that in today's pandemic conditions the established course cannot be carried out. It was a clear placement. And we invited the citizens and invited them to a symbolic celebration with full respect for the health rules. That's what we did this morning, SYRIZA, in EAT-SA, that's what other parties did, both the JRC and the MERA25. But the New Democracy Government has once again demonstrated that the only language it knows is that of repression. It does not account for the public interest and seeks to increase tension even because of these unprecedented pandemic conditions. We are not going to follow this unprecedented anti-democratic catastrophe. We call on the government, even now, to stop the anti-democratic methods - and now that we in this House are discussing incidents in the centre of Athens, there are police interventions, there are attacks, there are injuries - to stop all that is currently happening in the center of Athens. The country doesn't need a government that operates as a ranger. It needs a government that is involved with society. Especially nowadays, our country needs a government that is aware of the difficult situation in which it is going to go in seriousness and with no plan and no arrogantness. And since I'm talking about arrogance, you know that arrogance takes many different forms. Its expression is the systematic choice of the government to go into the pandemic, without explaining what measures it takes, without admitting mistakes and omissions, without being interested in persuading society. This arrogance is finally feeding conspiracy, tiring society, unfortunately leads to a crisis of confidence that endangers public health itself, because citizens have now lost their confidence in the government's decisions, they are tired of old age, and they no longer understand how decisions are taken and on what criteria, because transparency and information are at the core of the democratic rights of citizens. That is why we have already asked for an amendment from last week to the draft legislation, which we are debating today, to make public the practices of the Ministry of Health Scientific Committee. We were told by the Minister for Development just before he left that this amendment was not accepted. We expect the Minister of Health or the Deputy Minister, Mr Kontozamanis, to come here and explain why they continue to operate in secret, because they do not accept this critical amendment to the Greek people, so that all Greek citizens can be informed through the publication of the practices which were exactly and when the proposals of the Scientific Committee were made. We'll wait patiently for your explanations. We, of course, will, in any case, come back to the request for all information to be made public. Now in relation to the draft law: First of all, I think it is an abundance - if you like - of the parliamentary procedure once again. It's not, unfortunately, the first time we've seen this. Only seven articles in the bill were finally put into consultation and we saw at the very last moment that other articles that had never been discussed, such as, of course, numerous last-minute amendments, which had nothing to do with the subject of this bill, should be entered into the bill. It is, of course, undeniable that in an environment where e-commerce is aware of its role in the field of regulation, the European Commission has attempted to regulate issues concerning online platforms and mediation services with a view to increasing transparency, more efficient dispute resolution and the protection of the smallest businesses and traders using Internet platforms to deal with harmful commercial practices of providers and of very large companies - colossal companies of the space. This regulation also becomes of particular importance to our country in strengthening the position of tourist enterprises contributing to electronic hosting platforms, but also, of course, in the midst of pandemic, the survival of many small businesses may be largely judged by their ability to market electronically their services and products. Unfortunately, however, we are also seeing in this bill, although additional measures are being legislated, which in general have a sense, that this process of European regulation should actually proceed in a way that raises reasonable questions and objections. For example, you designate the EMEA, the Interservice Market Control Unit of the Ministry of Development and Investment, as a supervising body for the compliance of providers with the provisions of the Regulation. Authorize a newly established unit to carry out specialised checks, to have access to data, to impose fines. With what experience, with what expertise, with which skilled and well-trained staff will all this and with the full absence of the Competition Committee from the Audit Mechanism, be done and has the expertise in controlling unfair practices that distort healthy competition? You anticipate sanctions with a huge range of EUR 1500 to EUR 2 million - with criteria indicatively and not specifically and restrictively, at risk of unequal treatment of the controlled and economic extermination of businesses, and the impression is that only a few months after the law was passed on to the state, which is supposed to ensure the effective organisation of the public administration, we have another case where you systematically now amend the organisational structure of services, you recommend new services, new posts and administrative offices, a sample of how the 'government of the excellence' is legislated. I think that our rapporteur, Mr Mamulakis, has also been in detail on the issues of the Committee on Competition. These provisions are potentially financed - and we have no objection to finding funds for the Competition Committee and there is no guarantee to the contrary - companies which will be called upon to be controlled by the Competition Committee. And since we are talking about the Competition Committee, let me, Mr Minister, raise a point in mind which, in my opinion, is crucial and which we have received many complaints recently. It is about the huge burdens of the banking system, of the banks on electronic transactions, because here we can talk - and we are well aware - about e-commerce, we are talking about the opportunities for Greek businesses and, above all, of small and medium-sized enterprises, in relation to their presence on the Internet, but what we are seeing is a great burden. There is a great deal of reaction from consumers. We took the initiative and tabled a question on 8 October. The answer we have unfortunately received from the Committee on Competition is essentially general and does not give a substantial answer to the problem, and we are talking about an investigation which has been under way for about fifteen months. Yesterday, the Consumers' Counsel was placed on the subject. So we expect to see your actions on this crucial issue. We will also come back to Parliament to see how we deal with this issue which concerns consumers and traders. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President, for two minutes, please. And I come to the issue of Sundays. First of all, I think it is unacceptable for the evil one that you have brought a provision in this respect at the last minute and when the public consultation of the bill had ended. But, after our extensive investigation and the presence of the bodies in our committee, we have seen that no one has been found to support this provision, because at first reading this provision may seem innocent, but, as the representatives of operators have said, it is opening up a ferry which will create a huge problem in the commercial world and, above all, in the small and medium-sized enterprises and, of course, in the workers. The last one, which they need at the moment, is conditions of unfair competition from larger companies. There are a number of reasons why we are opposed to this provision, a provision which is unclear, does not identify local shops, is discriminatory against self-government. It is very crucial that decisions are taken at local level to take account of local trade associations. This locality is the way you legislate and is contrary to the principles of healthy competition. The operation of shops will create competition not only between businesses, but also between neighbouring municipal units. The operation of shops in one of them will force the other to follow, so that its businesses will not lose their customers. An automation will work, that is, which we consider to be too dangerous. You will allow me to close - because I do not want to abuse plenary time - with a more general comment. Our country's operations are in the midst of a pandemic faced with the range of extinction. Self-employed, self-employed, small and medium-sized enterprises, workers now live in a permanent insecurity situation. One in three small and medium-sized enterprises is saying that they will soon not be able to meet their basic obligations. In the first lockdown, companies saw a fall close to EUR 20 billion in their turnover and another EUR 4 billion in household income. With a reduction in the current month, in November, we expect these losses to move to 5 billion and 1 billion respectively, with this, of course, having an impact - we have said so from the outset - and in public finances. Look at the course of the budget. The hole is enough at about 10 billion in the first nine months. Two things are needed here: substantial support and clear words. As to the first, do not continue with the same model, i.e. suspension of commitments and new lending. It is also useful, I am not saying, but it is not enough, it is not enough. Although for the first time there are great opportunities to support the real economy in real liquidity, unfortunately you are condemning it to the recession. Specific, costly proposals that we have tabled since the beginning of the pandemic as SYRIZA, but also other opposition forces, I must say, must be implemented, for direct business support, to support work with wage costs, but also the income of free professionals, farmers and those affected by the crisis. They are needs that need to be met, they are fair demands for production bodies as well. Such measures are implemented throughout Europe. Just last week the European Central Bank called on the Member States to support their businesses directly. And the second thing that is needed - and I close with that, Minister - is the clear words and clear timetables. Just yesterday, on the same television channel, we heard you and the Minister proceed to contradictory statements about the opening-up of the market. Don't you realize that's exacerbating insecurity? Why, as representatives of operators themselves said yesterday, are you playing with their nerves? The risk of seeing thousands of 'lukelets' and new unemployed armies in the next space is now more than existent. Faced with this crisis, Minister, it requires a plan, it requires seriousness and political will, which unfortunately seems to be absent from your policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, too. Because of the amendments and because of the events and the issue we have had a long time ago, we must have the speaking time - I understand that you are waiting patiently - to be reduced to five minutes because, as I said, we have escaped. We'll go after 21:00, if we leave it in six minutes, and there's a curfew.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u186	We will be arrested, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u187	And first of all, you! I will give the floor to the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Constantine Heta. Then, with Mr Loverdos' tolerance and concession, we will go to two speakers. One is Mr. Kegeroglu. Then I will give the floor to Mr. Lovedro. Mr. Hetas has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u188	Mr President, thank you very much. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the political system has once again been stripped of! And what do we see today, surprised, as if we didn't know what would happen? Episodes, he says, downtown Athens. But is the attitude of all parties so hypocritical in the last few days that you have come to tell us what? So who didn't expect any episodes today? Is there one? In the same spectators’ work, again, forty - seven years, the same image. Then we wonder why the Greek people, the Greek citizens, have turned back on the political system. It is a pragmatism which has been played in the last ten days here in plenary and outside the House by almost all political parties. That is what we are living today. What did we have today? We have had a government which I cannot understand why, Minister, Mr Papathanassis, has hit the climate so badly. Why, in other words, have you brought the point to the outside, and now are you apologizing? And I'll tell you why you're apologizing. Because you're hypocrites, too, Mr. Papathanassis, and your government. You suddenly remembered, changing an agenda, to show your rigour for November 17 at the time you closed the churches. I will now tell you one - one, to understand what you have done. So what did the Prime Minister say? And what Prime Minister? The court's Prime Minister, who officially sent a representative to the twenty thousand who had come out of the courtroom in a coronary bomb. So the Prime Minister of the closed churches and the Prime Minister of the open windows, what did he do? I'll tell you what the Prime Minister did. The Prime Minister for banning parades, because this Prime Minister banned parades both on 25 March and on 28 October. The Prime Minister who was absent from the deposit of a wreath in the monument of the unknown Soldier on October 28th. Your government has been absent, Minister, and your Prime Minister. No one's gone. But today, your Prime Minister has uploaded such a video with a wreath deposit before leaving for his trip, of course, at the Polytechnic School. The Prime Minister of state continuity in the shameful betrayal agreement of the Prespes, this Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of the poverty of the Greeks, the Prime Minister of the Banking Code, the Prime Minister of the auctioning of the first home and let them take a postponement for a few months - because it is now their law - this Prime Minister swinged the finger on all Greeks and said "do not dare and go out to protest". He would have every right to tell if he was right in all the things I mentioned. Because five days before taking all the agenda of the Greek Solution, for what the Greek Solution calls, parades, 25th of March, 28th of October, churches, everything, you do your own in a strange, fantastic way and you come now and say that whoever circulates will be arrested. Hypocrisy has led you to this incomprehensible clash. So you cultivated this scene. You guys, because you're hypocrites. You pulled out, Minister, six thousand policemen on the streets today. Overtime, fuel, vehicles, and what hasn't happened! And what did we see? So many days at the panels, your own ministers, MPs, will be arrested. And a thousand - a thousand five hundred of the JRC today made a parade, a protest, no one touched them. What's it called football? It's a little awkward. Mr. Loverdo, you know a ball. You're being slewed. Don't you get it? That's what they did to you today. You've been "clicked" properly on their course. And go arrest them. And the policeman addressing Mr Koutsouba: 'Mr. General, please', 'Mr. Koutsouba, please proceed'. You can't do that. They're good for you. Two yards and two weights. They're very good for you. Because you're a sensitive salt card. Because in Thessaloniki ten days ago the Greek shopkeepers, who are late, who are suffocating, arrested them for protesting ten notoriously to close their shops and throw them chemically. Today he didn't open a nostril this morning, nor even get close to arresting. You arrested, Minister, three - four Cyprians who went and put a Greek flag in Thessaloniki at the statue of Venizelos on the day Erdogan parade to Varchosias. You arrested the three Cypriots, you know? Equivalent measures and equal weight? That's why people go crazy! Unrighteous and inequality no one wants them. That is why the world is reacting, and that is why it is not convinced. You don't convince anyone! On October 28, you arrested people in Thessaloniki. Arrest three - four nomads who came out with Greek flags with their cars! We've got names and official complaints, and there's photos on all the websites. So, what do you say to the Greeks today? What did you tell them today? Get out on the streets, guys, and do whatever you want. Say you're KIC protesters and nobody's gonna catch you. That's what you tell them! If anyone catches you on the road, say you're KIC protesters. You won't be touched by a man! You can go wherever you want! That's what you're doing! And he comes and talks about the political system! There's more hypocrisy here than any of you! And all this in a world, in a Greece, because here we are for the Greeks, who bleed, who dies, which is suffocating, that the Greeks are locked in their homes, who can't get to work. One on the radio was telling me the other day that he wanted to go get his daughter, because he wasn't driving. So he asked me if he could come out after 10:00. And today you see thousands of people out! So what are we going to do today to this man? What will the political system answer? You've been talking for so many days about whether you're gonna outlaw or not? The Greek Solution has said it since the first moment 15 days ago. This is where we told you: Don't dare 17 November to have any rallys and marches. You did it and you let it happen. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. For free Chrysochoidis, free of charge the "very hard to die", free of six thousand policemen, free of charge all measures! They're partying, parade! I'm fine! He didn't touch them, man! Very tough! Will anyone quit for all this? Will anyone apologise to the Greek people for the bad image, not to say anything else, presented by the Greek Government before the Greek people and the Greek citizens? Are you going to apologize? Will there be any resignation today from the Ministry responsible for what has happened? Is there going to be one? Because you are all inferior to the circumstances! The government these days violated our logic and opposition parties, especially the Left, violated the legitimacy. The government violated our logic and the left-wing parties, the opposition, the legality. So you cannot be outlawed, you are not people of another god! You have the same rights as Greek citizens. It can't be done! Can't you see the world's dying? And you do what you smoke? So we say 'no' to division, because they will write history of everything you do, because you are weighed and judged by everyone incomprehensible in the face of everything that happens every day. There is no greater value than human life and the work of anyone who wants to live in his family. No idea is above survival, nothing and nothing! So when you close a man in his house and tell him you won't work, I close your shop and you won't be released, because other people don't have to die, you can't go and go. So where are the measures that would be taken? You don't account for the world, the simple cosmic who's fighting for survival. Mr Varoufakis - there is no one here - I have your own statement here, which you made on 25 March, and you said: 'Well, the government's decision not to parade on 25 March for medical reasons is correct.' I'm sorry, to understand, is it more important that the anniversary of November 17th from March 25th or October 28th? I don't understand! So would anyone stick anything - tell us what logic says and don't put anything else - if the coordinate parties, one of their representatives would go and file a wreath on 28 October? What would happen? No way, no parade, nothing! A wreath! You couldn't? But that's what the Greek people ask! And you're going to convince him. But that's why he's not convinced! You're going to convince him of what you're doing and you can't. Why? I explained them to you a little while ago. The Communist Party of Greece said earlier that they were coordinates, etc. and that they care about the world and the workers, etc. I would therefore like to ask them - and I address my colleagues in the Communist Party of Greece - to repay the fines that have been introduced to the ordinary Greek citizens. In other words, all of us together, together and you, should return the money to those who have eaten these days the tracosars. We know who they are, we have their details, the names. Let's ask that the money be returned back to the world. How, in other words, is it illegal for a person who might not have worn his mask or had not had his paper or who was out at 21.15, had the time been over, and "was" 300 euros fined? Should not the 300 euros be returned there too? Also, Minister, as far as we've understood, why you have a plan for everything, as you say, you've probably also put a ring on the anniversaries, single scales. In other words, for months, for example in October, we are not honored, while in the single months we are honored. Explain what's going on! Make decisions, because as you go, you're not doing it at all. And then you wonder why people don't discipline! He can't discipline! Can I tell you something else in the end? The Greek people, their overwhelming majority, 90% -95%, have shown discipline, obey measures for the coronary and all! He's obeying! It says "yes" to what you say. But you have responsibilities. By means of measures - half-measures, you've committed health crimes. It does not say anything about the Prime Minister coming here and telling us in his trilogy "we have made mistakes." or telling us a New Democracy MEP - with whom I was yesterday in a television panel - that "it could have been done", "it could have been done as well," "it could have been done. Your mistakes are paid by the Greek people, you are not paying! You are responsible for these mistakes and the Greek people pay them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What's to say first? Let's see how the story first started. "Give a kick to come back, fairy tale to start..." Masks: They're doing, they don't. Tourism: wrong algorithm. We have lifted the matter up. For tourism you used the wrong algorithm! Do you understand? What you did, Minister, is criminal mistakes. You opened tourism with the wrong algorithm! You opened the schools without masks, without any controls. You didn't even do a test in schools! You had five months to prepare and twisted the kids in the halls. As far as public transport is concerned, we have reached the point of the Greek Prime Minister saying in the Greek Parliament that research - all at the same time, we are still waiting for the investigations - shows that the coronary is not stuck in the media. We can't talk about this in the world! The world is going crazy! It can't be done! We must at least be serious! And I come to the churches. The easy solution is to target the faith, with the mosques open and with enthusiastic inauguration in the Botanic! But the churches must shut them down with lies! Lies! Because no scientific factor has proved what you say about the Divine Society. A dozen surveys brought you by Mr. Velopoulos who proves this. 'no', you! As far as the focus, tombstone, you closed it all. Tombstone! Go see what's going on with the land workers in the district. Northern Greece has been filled with Albanians, Turks, Bulgarians, Skopje, Romanians! There's been a thorn without any tests. That's what you did! We have said five proposals. You don't hear anything. We told you not to pay closed fixed fees through the TECs. As far as traffic charges are concerned, why would the man who doesn't have to pay for his car? She doesn't want an extension. What he wants is not to pay. Four months? Four! We have also proposed to you the "haircut" of loans. We suggested that the citizens should have the same beneficial properties you have on your loans, at least two hundred forty instalments! So you, why are you paying for life?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u189	Please, please, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u190	I shall conclude, Mr President. You pay the loans of New Democracy 320 million for life and the world will put him in jail or will you take his home? How's that gonna happen? It's just stuff. But as long as you go on like this, you know that sweater starts to plunge. And believe us, we don't care at all if the sweater of New Democracy goes out. What we care about is that the Greeks and Greeks are being destroyed. Stop provoking the Greeks, the incarcerated Greeks, and behave seriously, worthy of Greek citizens. This is not a political picture! Yeah, it was expected to have episodes. I'm afraid so. What's the surprise for? Is there someone who didn't expect it? Nobody! So I think a little more serious is going to be beneficial to Greece!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Heta. Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u192	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll make a statement. Foolishness has its limits!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u193	Please don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u194	Don't beg at all. I'm not resenting anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u195	No, no, we'll erase it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u196	I'm not erasing and I'm not undoing anything!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u197	Please me as the Apostle Abedlas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u198	Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u199	You can say it anyway. Please, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u200	I say this in this way - and I repeat it - that nonsense also has its limits. Unfortunately, you have turned into a right-wing helmet of the government into the criminal attack, violence and authoritarianism, propaganda and provocation. You seem to have envied the glory of the “Golden Dawn ” that is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u202	Here you go, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u203	Look, it is true that the colleague's gut is not going to fall because we have no intention of looting. He is probably forgetting, despite his long parliamentary presence, that he is in the Greek Parliament and, of course, his irresistible cries will not excitement to anyone. Others were illegal and were not arrested today. The law is for everyone. The rest I leave for him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u204	Are you saying that after so many arrests that took place?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u205	Please, Mr. Karathanasopou!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u206	You're politically dishonorable!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u207	Please don't do this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u208	You're lying, that's nonsense! If that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u209	Please, Mr. Karathanasopou! I understand your irritation, but that's not happening in here! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u210	You got a microphone and you can say anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u211	No, it's not like that. He doesn't have a microphone! You're making a mistake! We give the floor and people will draw the conclusions. You won't get us through what you want!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u212	It's the reality, not what we want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u213	We'll listen to you. We'll hear from Mr. Heta. What can we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u214	Arrests have been made!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u215	No objections! We were pleased to have been arrested?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u216	There's been terrorism!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u217	No, you won't make a field here! Please. Please. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u218	Please, me!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u219	I'm the one, please! The reason for this is through online connection, Mr. Ioannis Antoniadis from Florina, but there is a problem and he doesn't listen to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u220	Here we go! Such a nerve!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u221	Please! What's this in here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u222	They must have consequences, Mr President. What's this?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u223	It's going to be all that's going to happen, Mr. Heta. That's too bad! Not to say anything worse.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u224	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u225	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, it is regrettable that today's celebration of democracy and the message it gives us, freedom, to hear such expressions on the altar of democracy. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u227	We're all sorry, Minister, and I didn't expect it...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u228	Sensitivity is not a good card!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u229	Mr. Symphony, please! Don't take the dog from Mr. Karathanasopoulos! He's not right and you know it! Everyone's gonna say what they want! He's going to make his own conclusions! Please! It's his view! That's democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u230	He's pouring oil into the fire! So here's how you two got together. Symptoms!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u231	Mr. Symphony, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, please take the floor,
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u233	Here you go, Mr. Bukoro.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u234	Mr President, it is well known in this Chamber that we are not all in agreement on the facts or the views.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u235	Did I say anything different?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u236	But I would really like to add my concern to what the Minister said earlier, because in the Chamber of Parliament everything can be said in the appropriate manner and manner. The irritation, which may exist from events outside Parliament, must not, in my view, carry the atmosphere of those events within Parliament, regardless of who attacked dramatically and who replied and who answered. We as a New Democracy from such phenomena within Parliament completely separate our position. That's what I wanted to testify to.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u237	Thank you very much, Mr Buquoir.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u238	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Symphony, please. Don't embarrass me because I'm on my limit!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u240	You're kicking the world!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u241	Mr. Symphony, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u242	That's a lot of sedation, but a card! Whenever it suits you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u243	No, always.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u244	Mr. Antoniadis, online, open your microphone! [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, my colleague speaks!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u245	Are you going to beat us because we have another point of view?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u246	Be honest!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u247	Mr. Bouquet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u248	You've criminalized political life!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u249	Mr. Coward! I'll get you both out now! Since Mr. Antoniadis and Mr. Kegeroglu are not connected, Mr. Yoyakas has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u250	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we agree that this bill comes to resolve some very specific issues on the market, with regulations which mainly benefit micro-enterprises, either in total or some of their categories. On the contrary, with what our ideological opponents, who find out everywhere favor to the great business interests, give us the potential of this bill, make choices to the very small businessman, to the stylist of local economies, the one who often does not have the means to fight unfair competition. I would therefore like to dwell on some of the points in the draft law which I consider to be particularly important in this respect. First of all, there is an innovation, a new tool on which both the Minister and our rapporteur have stood. Like consumer associations, they can appeal to justice on behalf of their members, without taking a financial risk, so e-commerce companies will also be able to bring collective action through the commercial or business body representing them. It is known that businesses that promote goods and services on the Internet through search engines, social media, app platforms and price comparison sites are faced with various unfair and abused practices, and these are not only found in very large internet players, through which bookings or shop searches are made. We also see them in various smaller ombudsmen, who are rushing to exploit those businesses, who do not have the means or knowledge to appreciate and manage the traps of the markets on the Internet, and they are usually the smaller ones. The legal aid for collective action is therefore the right of representative organisations and public bodies to appeal to national courts when search engines and other internet intermediaries do not treat their user, i.e. the company or the consumer, in a fair and transparent manner. A second point which deserves attention is the strengthening of the revenues of the Competition Committee. The chairman of the committee was clear at the meeting of our committee. In the last decade revenues from its core resource, the reward fee for the creation or increase of equity by public limited companies have decreased over half. The possibility of increasing revenues from the state budget, when they fall below a minimum, will give the committee more means to make its work more effective: qualified lawyers, economists and other scientists, technical and technological equipment, the implementation of programmes to promote competition in the interests of equal competition between companies that play in accordance with the rules, smaller companies that have to deal with a cartel of larger players and, of course, for the benefit of consumers. Third point is the possibility of very small shops operating in municipal communities with under five thousand inhabitants opening on Sundays. The Minister was clear. This is where we are dealing with neighborhood family businesses, ovens, pastry shops, mini-markets which, in order to serve Sundays, had to risk imposing fines which in many cases had to be paid off financially. This tampery broken comes to get from the heads of these small shopkeepers the function and Sundays. There is no fraudulent intention of allowing multinational branches from the window to open on Sundays or the provision leaves room for this. Finally, there has been a lot of talk, ladies and gentlemen, about changing the provision for the operation of the people's markets six days a week, instead of Monday to Saturday, and about the possibility of running shops and other Sunday pilots for one year in three tourist areas in our country. And here the key word is 'flexibility', which, along with the application of the principle of proximity, the people's markets will be able to operate on Sunday. This is left under the jurisdiction of local government, regions in Attica and Thessaloniki and municipalities in the rest of the country that make decisions in cooperation with the committees and representatives of professionals. Accordingly, the operation of commercial stores in tourist areas will be voluntary and after local operators have been consulted. There is another thing about duty and freedom of choice. We want to give more degrees of freedom to economic activity and at the same time...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u251	What happened? Did the Internet realize it spent five minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u252	...the law of the strongest, so that freedom does not result in immunity. Thank you and welcome from Thesprotia.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. Jogakas. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u254	I want to start with a report on today. I had the honour of being a member of the delegation of the Change Movement that submitted a wreath to the monument at the Polytechnic. We really felt that the message "Bread - Freedom - Childhood" is time-consuming and time-consuming, because it certainly refers to man, but also to the citizen at the same time. He refers to the man who is currently being tested for his health. In no case should we inact or leave ourselves, to be reassured that the danger has passed. On the other hand, the message is possible for democracy which must not be erroneously affected. It is therefore also a question of those who insisted - badly - to take steps and gatherings, but also of those who unilaterally proceeded - the government, in this case - without national agreement on authoritarian decisions. It could have been achieved what was done with the Conference of Presidents. The House has unanimously decided, with the agreement of all the parties, that in the House there will be two representatives from each party in order to protect the health of both workers and Members of Parliament. Hey, isn't that about citizens? Should such measures not be taken and there should be such consultation for the citizens? I now come to the issue of the draft legislation that we are discussing, which deals with the regulation of important issues by incorporating a directive and other regulations that are coming to deal with the pandemic and its consequences. I will say that the government once again shows that it did not evaluate and was not taught by the first phase of the pandemic, because otherwise it would have an integrated picture and an intervention on how to move towards second deterioration and forbidding. The second part of the proposal for amendments and individual provisions, which regulates issues which should be the subject of an overall legislative initiative, is precisely what it shows. I come to a specific issue concerning the damage to Crete. You know very well that more than ten municipalities in the last few days have been affected by the extreme weather phenomena that prevailed in Crete. These are similar phenomena caused by the Mediterranean Cyclone "Janos" in Thessaly and Central Greece. We have tabled an amendment concerning the inclusion in the provisions of Law 4728 and in particular of Articles 1 to 8 concerning the strengthening of the 'Janus' affected persons, in order to integrate them into these provisions and the municipalities of Crete affected in the past few days. With this amendment, there will be no need to legislate every time, in fragmentary terms, on support measures. I will give you an example. Today Mr Karamanlis came and tabled an amendment to speed up work in Thessaly. It says, therefore, that for Thessaly and for the damage caused by 'January' I anticipate this. There is no welfare for Crete as well. The Minister for Finance said that the repayable advance, the next phase - but I would say that I and the non-refundable - relates, as a matter of priority, to those affected by Janus. If they do not join these affected areas and regions of Crete, we certainly have two meters and two stations, people stay out of support. We need to know that we have about a thousand houses that have been affected and businesses, which are unable not to repair the damage and come back to normality, but also to deal with the situation and be able to sleep in their homes. It is urgently necessary to give these people the EUR 5 000 for those who have suffered damage to housing and the EUR 8 000 for those who have suffered damage to businesses, in order to take first care and, of course, after the personalisation of the losses, to show what else will be attributed to them as aid. At the same time, I have to say that today, while the ministers came out and said that everything is going well, there is a gap that they did not speak to us about. I would therefore ask the Government and, in this regard, the Treasury, in particular, who handles the matter, to take up the amendment we have tabled. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! Not because Mr Georgiadis was raped to go with Mr Mitsotakis abroad to reject, without reading, the amendments! From where and yet without reading the amendments, does it say that it is generally rejected and vaguely and at the same time tells us that it receives welfare for the affected? I would therefore ask the current Minister representing the Government and, above all, the Ministry of Finance, that I should like to hear from the other parties on this amendment. I heard four fellow Members from Heraklion speaking. Has the amendment not been taken into account? Can we not agree on the polytechnics, but on the support of the injured? If possible, at the time that hundreds of people are suffering in Crete, the government cannot respond to a request that is necessary, that Crete join the provisions of the "January" which were applied to Thessaly. That is what we are doing with the amendment is being implemented immediately. I would therefore like to conclude by saying once again that the government should come to the point. I would like to make a reference to the amendment by the Ministry of Finance for the seventy-five days postponement of the obligations to repay the cheques.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u255	Mr. Kegeroglu, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u256	I'll be done. Unfortunately, it repeats the arrangement of March which makes a simple transfer, as it has violently puts on the vortex of the crisis and the businesses that hold cheques in their hands, without providing for them. To take care, of course. We also suggested that Mr. Sklaakakis, creating an intermediate banking tool, should be paid at the time of the supplier, producer, craftsman, engineer, who made a renovation or any other work at the hotel and at the same time transferring the payment of the interest from the state. Is that what you want? Let's do it, but not pay the bride, Mr. Dogs - from now on! - the supplier, the producer, in return, without any support.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u257	Close, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u258	Of course, it's not just these businesses. We need to broaden and see how we support those who have the checks and that people had planned activities and payments. How are they gonna do it now? Thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance, but you must call on the Ministry of Finance to take a position on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u259	Sure. Mr Antoniadis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. I would also like to express my regret for the Member who left. Today is a day of memory and honor. We honor the uprising students and in the face of them all who have fought for the restoration of democracy. I would like to say that the Polytechnics School is a bright milestone in the country's historic path and a timeless example for the new generations, but also for all of us, for constant struggles, for democracy, for freedom, for human rights and - for bread. I am sorry to have those who are trying to cast their ballots on national anniversaries, pandemics and 'Jannes'. Unfortunately, they'll find doors closed. I would also like to make one point. First of all, I would like to say that the government has speeded up all procedures in both Karditsa and Crete. What has not yet been predicted - I agree with Mr Kegeroglu - must also be provided for Crete, but also for all regions which are tested by the 'January' and other natural disasters. There should also be the Ammonium of Florina, which is the only municipality in which the plants have been closed down. There is a very large number of unemployed. Of course the government must take care of it. I am referring to the issue of the National Bank which is going to close a branch. Unfortunately, it will cause a major problem in the region because of unemployment. I'm coming to the bill now. This bill contains five topics, of course, four. And that's why it's divided into five places, twenty-two articles. The first part concerns additional measures to improve the application of Regulation 1150/2019. This regulation has for the first time introduced rules on the regulation of relations between all of our known online platforms and business users. With the new rules adopted by the Government are braked on unfair practices and provision is made for a transparent classification of internal complaint-handling mechanisms and for the possibility of legal protection by means of the legalisation of associations and public bodies in order to bring collective action to the unfair conduct of mediation services providers and providers of search engines. To do this, there needs to be a record. It is therefore planned to establish a Register of Associations and Public Entities in the Inter-Service Market Control Unit, DIAMEA. The second part of the bill relates to arrangements for the optimal functioning of the inter-service unit and the aim of the body is, inter alia, to address illegal trade, to allow fines for the movement and marketing of counterfeit products - commonly, monkey products - and a number of issues relating to the proper functioning of the market. This draft law also contains a number of provisions amending the provisions of Law 471/2020. The third part provides for arrangements for the Competition Committee, resolving years of problems in its operation. A new method of financing the committee has been established, which has also been highlighted by European bodies. The fourth part refers to the operation of shops on Sundays, but in small areas, as well as the operation of popular markets. We are now talking about very small individual and family businesses. It concerns local stores referred to in Article 2 in areas with a permanent population of less than five thousand. Of course, the operation of rural markets is also regulated - the well-known people's markets - by enabling local competent bodies to have greater flexibility and to determine the hours and days of operation. I conclude - because I unfortunately do not see the time - with this: the fifth and last part of the draft law under discussion provides for the extension of the application of Union law. This is where I stop, Mr President. Thank you very much, and I congratulate you on complying with the rules. The House is not "one man show". We must respect the time of all colleagues. I stop here to give other colleagues the opportunity to speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u261	Thank you too, Mr Antoniadis, and for your good words. Is he ready and can we hear Mr. Sarakiotis from SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u262	Mr President, I am ready. Can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u263	Very good. Mr. Ioannis Sarakiotis has the floor from SYRIZA for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr President. Today, 17 November, I could not refer to the distinct symbolism, but also to the timeliness of today's message. The 47th anniversary of the Polytechnic insurrection sends messages of freedom, unity and harmony. We must all ensure that what was conquered by the struggles and sacrifices of the Greek people. But are we all committed to this purpose? Unfortunately, recent government decisions make us doubt about this. With regard to the bill, we would all expect the Ministry of Development today, but especially the market and small and medium-sized enterprise, a bill - but also other initiatives - in line with the needs and requirements that have arisen in recent months because of the pandemic. Especially when the Minister, Mr. Georgiadis, interviewed him just the day before yesterday on a Sunday form to ask whether the Greek economy can withstand a new national lockdown, such as what we have today or even repeated in the future, he replied "Our public finances can withstand. Our cash is big. Low borrowing interest rates and banks in a very good situation. So, as far as our public finances are concerned, we have no problem.' I will overlook the fact that Mr Georgiadis just two months ago, on 17 September, told a television interview that the economy would not last a second lockdown. And I will come to today and to the state of the business world of the country. Uncertainty, insecurity, total lack of liquidity, these are the elements that dominate the market as a result of the government's political inertia. If nothing else, I think it is a basis on which we can all agree. But what are the solutions you give the business world? Communication fireworks are aids from the Second Guarantee Programme and from TEPIX II, as the Government has directed 97% of the money allocated to the very large companies and groups to date. Small and medium-sized enterprises with a turnover of less than EUR 100,000 have only received 3% of the aid. It is a clear sign of priorities, but also of bias, which characterises government policy. This tactic runs counter to all the warnings and appeals of market players. I will mention that of Mr Macroys, President of the APRC, who said that the real picture is that the market is suffering too badly and we do not know what depth and how it will be able to regain. On the other hand, the President of the Athens Chamber of Commerce is beating the alarm and he says warning: "The pandemic today helps, willingly or unwittingly, to destroy small and very small businesses. Enterprises employing up to nine people are entering minimum financial instruments and, first and foremost, regional programmes. I would say that, in fact, because of the criteria, they are excluded. And the crucial question arises: What are the channels of adequate funding for the companies that have been guaranteed? How have you guaranteed the participation of the banking sector, the powerful as you say banking, in the effort to strengthen small and medium-sized entrepreneurship? You blamed us for the policy of forward measures being irresponsible, indifferent to what is happening in other Member States - Member States of the European Union, such as France, which, from EUR 45 billion, went to EUR 100 billion, which is more than doubled in time for support to businesses. Not only in our country, there has been no timely action, but the businessmen and chambers are now turning towards the regional authorities, as if there were no central government. Unfortunately, the government remains a spectator. Since spring already, SYRIZA has proposed, as far as business is concerned, the non-refundable grant, a programme for which Mr Petsas had swayed us by saying that "there are no money". Fortunately, however, you have not been heard by the regional authorities, who are taking on board our proposal, who implement this programme, but clearly lacking funding. We have pointed out to you in time that there are the possibilities of non-refundable support to enterprises for full replacement of wages by the State, with a view to maintaining jobs and employment relationships. Instead, the government merely insisted on postponing certain obligations by moving its burdens and responsibilities in the future, with the risk of overcompensation, but still being visible. And he rushed to vote for a new bankruptcy law, in order for there to be a damsel to be broken over our particular fellow citizens. For workers, it continues to grant unemployment benefits of only EUR 534. The market needs real support, substantial support, as well as workers, who at the same time consume and support the operation of businesses. This is how the government, in its choice, supplies the vicious circle of recession. Mr. Mitsotakis had said his Government used the Guarantee Fund to force banks to finance the real economy more actively, while at every opportunity government officials are rushing to proclaim how powerful the banking system is and how firm its capital adequacy is. And everyone is asking a reasonable question about this: why then this banking system in excellent condition does not support the real economy? Since the banks are in the situation that the Minister has mentioned to us, would they also open their doors and funds to any small and medium-sized enterprises?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u265	Finish, Mr. Saraciotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u266	Of course, Mr President. Financial institutions do not currently provide loans, do not finance businesses, despite the fact that, according to official figures, their liquidity in 2020 increased by EUR fifty-six billion, of which only ten were provided in the real economy, of which five were channelled to just five major business groups. To close, Mr President, and thank you very much for your understanding, I would like to dwell on the provision for opening shops. Does the New Democracy Government really think the market problem today is a lack of consumer time? So, don't people have time to shop from Monday to Saturday, and they're going to rush on Sunday at the stores? Do they not see how small and medium-sized enterprises are being put in place with the opening up of multi-shops? It is only on Sundays that they will be able to work in the end. Will it not be a money market for large companies to be able to handle the measure so that they can increase their intervention and the share of their turnover in local communities? Finally, Minister, I would like to stress that you must listen to the entrepreneurs. You must listen to the workers and approach realistically rather than communication the current situation, because the future is prescribing a pitiful one and you have a huge responsibility for it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr Sarakiotis. Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos. After a triad of all parties on the list as speakers, we will go to a parliamentary representative. Of course, I remember, when I wasn't a Member of Parliament, and Mr. Loverdos stood up to speak in the Chamber, it was a mess. Points of time. What can I say? Applause... I'm sad about this, but you're gonna tell me it's COVID, stuff. But it's not like that. But there's a lot of people on TV now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President, for your good words and good memories from this Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, the environment in which today's debate is taking place at its bad times is the environment of a country in which, every half an hour, a man dies from COVID -19. And if we divide the people who leave life in the twenty-four hours of the day, and those who leave are not more than forty-eight. When it's seventy, the fraction is even more painful. The debates are taking place in this environment, and this environment does not allow for conflicts such as those before us. And this environment also defines the world's attitude, which follows us as a parliament which at some point escapes and discusses issues which are not related to the daily lives of people and the great problem of today's problem - I said it in my speech a little while ago - on the one hand, the need not to lose the home economy, the family economy, the professional economy of everyone and everyone, and on the other, the need not to lose life. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, we must not conflict with the way conflicts have occurred in this Chamber a few days ago and for the last four days, everything that we have seen between the members and the members of our political system. Let me add, of course, our foreign policy problems, especially the behaviour of President Erdogan in Cyprus, where, in violation of all the relevant decisions and resolutions of the United Nations, he did what he did in the occupied part of Cyprus, he did what he did in Vargosia, he did against the Republic of Cyprus, which he insulted in a clear way, demonstrating once again that he was leading a state of turmoil. This is the environment - I say again - in which our parliamentary debates are taking place. And to keep in mind always that our citizens are watching us and that this four-day thing has escaped from reasonable limits. I'm going to raise five topics. Firstly, Minister, I will make a report which I made yesterday and discuss with Mr Stakoura on the occasion of a timely question I tabled. The first theme of the five I am going to raise is the liquidity in the market, the necessary to get each and every one of our businesses and all of our economy, public and private finances, out of the crisis. Liquidity in the market is an essential tool. Many words have been heard by the ministers, when we do parliamentary scrutiny, or when they exercise legislative initiatives. They claim you're doing very well. Thanasis Cekuras, the newspaper journalist "FIRE THEMA", published a painting of the Brigel Institute, a very reliable institute, where this institute made a ranking of the countries of Europe in eleven and on the basis of three financial instruments, three liquidity instruments, ranked us. Greece's in. In relation to direct budgetary measures, we are fourth from the end. In relation to payment suspensions, we're second from the end. And in relation to state guarantees in lending, we're second from the end. That's undisputed. It is a statistical study, I repeat, of the trustworthy Brigel Institute and is an undisputed witness of how sensible the criticism we make in a creative way is that of the Change Movement and I personally are. Now let's go see in this context now of the economy what comes to harmonize this draft law. The majority rapporteur and Mr Georgiadis in his speech this morning told us that we need to look at the problems as the European Union as a whole. We need to look at the problems created by increasing e-commerce. Yes, sir. That's right. I have a few points to make here. For the control of the EMEA, the Interservice Market Control Unit is a unit which, by reading the report you submitted to the House when you tabled the relevant legislative initiative on its establishment and the replacement of the coordination centre that existed before, is an ambitious effort, but it was related to the trade. Here, ladies and gentlemen, its responsibilities are expanded. Do you know how many examples I have from my course in the Greek political system, organs that were created with noble intentions and perhaps because they were going a little well, did we produce the list of responsibilities we gave them? In this regard, a rational legislative body would ask you, in the preparation of the draft law, but now before its vote: What is the assessment of the work of the EMEA so far? What are its capabilities to withstand the new load of responsibilities that you have given her? I believe that there is a problem here and I have met it with many organs - I say again - who have shown in the study with the eye - within an introductory study, namely that they have an opportunity to regulate market issues. Here from the parade trade we generalize. Are we generalizing with an instrument that can generalize its controls? Question. The act will show it. But the act in these cases shows that these responsibilities, many, do not accept. And, ladies and gentlemen, all that offers such a policy is to destroy and everything that is good is in Greek administration, Relevant topics now. Mr Katrinis mentioned the banks' profits from the various commissions they receive from transactions. Six hundred forty, you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u269	Six hundred million this year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u270	I will make an additional point to my colleague, who has not come from my own experience, but from the experience of Professor Thanasis Diamantopoulou, who, because he has been very careful of COVID -19, does all his transactions with his card. So here, from the outside, in the kiosk that is next to the MATs, where usually the bus of MATs is, he bought a newspaper with his card and asked the perceptive about what he's gaining from this transaction. He told him that from every newspaper leaf he sells, he wins 11 minutes and the bank's commission is 7 minutes. The transaction takes place for four minutes. I wouldn't be proud as a member of the government if that were the case. Have you seen it? We have made a series of interventions. My colleague, Mr Katrinis, has mentioned them and I do not want to repeat them. But we have heard them here, all of us who are watching this House. And we've seen the Prime Minister's attempt, who called the banks and pretended, asked, pressed, question them, because I don't know - to make a change in this situation. But nothing happened. The second issue that arises for the same, in general, from the report: I have not seen, but in the publications of the financial report, sixty machines for changing euro money to bitcoins exist throughout the country. Sixty! I haven't seen one. With these machines you can buy your ability to make e-commerce, consume. Is there a check? With the existing regulations, can there be control over this activity? It's a very serious question. I have seen that the Securities and Exchange Committee has been seized. I saw the Vice-President of the Commission on the capital market some intervention in this respect, but at the level of diagnosis of the problem and nothing more. I have two minutes left to make a final speech, which concerns an amendment of ours. There was a conversation this morning with Mr. Georgiadis. He made an extensive report by Mr Kegeroglu a moment ago in his speech. With the disasters that took place in Crete, and with the need for the people who have been afflicted there to be helped if there is no incorporation of our own amendment into the Greek legal order, it will also be necessary in this case - and although we hope that this will not happen in another area of the country - ad hoc legislative intervention. Mr Kegeroglou explained - and this morning and Mr Katrinis and I - that, instead of making this opportunityal legislation, which involves delays, we should generalise the existing legislative framework to cover the areas of Crete, which have been affected and any other region of the country would be affected in the future, which we hope will not happen. Unfortunately, however, every little bit and a little bit have such phenomena. I want to read - and this is what I should like to close - our report. We say: In order to directly support - immediately - the affected and to address the problems of the disasters, which have caused the extreme weather effects in municipalities in Crete, and in particular in the municipalities of the region of Rethymno, in the Municipality of Oropedi, in the areas of Lassithi and in the municipalities of Hersonissos, Minoa Pedias and in the Municipal Unit of Nea Alikarnassos in the region of Heraklion, the immediate activation of all the mechanisms of the ministries and the self-government is required based on the existing legal and regulatory framework. We invoke Law 4728/2020. We expect the Government, by the Minister of Finance, by the Minister present, after consultation with the government, that this amendment should be accepted today. If it is not accepted, I must admit that I do not understand your reasoning and I do not understand your spirit. The region has been affected, the areas of Crete I mentioned, have been affected and needing the help of the central state. This is a chance. The government, if it wants, can take it and take advantage of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr Loverdos, for keeping time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u272	Mr President, I would like the floor to develop my amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u273	The Minister for Health, Mr Kikilis, has the floor to develop the amendment under a general number of 560 and a special number 38, 'Compensation for matters of responsibility of the Ministry of Health'. Two minutes is enough, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u274	Thank you very much, Mr President. I won't be late. As I was committed, I bring a provision, an amendment from the Ministry of Health, which has to do with the following: Firstly, the coverage of hospital and medical care for uninsured citizens in private health structures. I would remind you that there was this prediction for uninsured patients who could be treated in ICU. This provision extends, on the basis of the assurance of the President of the EAW, the right to hospital and medical care if it is proven that there is a weakness in public structures and insurers, vulnerable and social groups in need of such treatment in private hospitals. Secondly, the extension of the recruitment of subsidiary medical, nursing and other auxiliary staff until 31/12-2020 in all health structures, private hospitals, nursing establishments, university hospitals, ‘Aretaire’, ‘Aegeanio’, AEMY, RIS hospitals, primary health care structures. Thirdly, the movement of staff from the private sector into the ERC structures. And since there is still a risk of the spreading of the coronary and until 30-6-2021, by decision of the Secretary-General of our Ministry, they can also be part of primary health care and hospitals and, of course, in an organic structure of the health system voluntarily, contractually or necessarily, available medical, nursing and auxiliary staff from the private sector and assigned to them such tasks for a certain period of time on the basis of combating public health emergency. The conditions and conditions for the employment of these personnel are clearly stated according to the decisions of the relevant health administration, the health region, namely the Ministry of State, and the duration - I repeat - of the Convention may be extended for another six months. In other words, it was commonly accepted that both medical clubs and others should be able to incorporate this into the National Health System and elsewhere for six months plus six, since there is still pandemic. In terms of employment for retired doctors in the ERC, again by decision of the Secretary-General for Health, it is possible to incorporate colleagues who have been retired for the period up to 30-6-2021. By joint decision of the Finance and Health Ministers, the method of compensation will be laid down. For retired doctors concerned with this provision and for intensive treatment specialities means that the payment of their gross pensions, masters and adjuvants, may be reduced by 30%. Retired doctors of all specialties specializing in intensification are excluded. In other words, they will also be able to retire and those who are going to be part of the intensive treatment that they work in ICUs will not be reduced by 30%. The last article of the provision relates to public contracts and emergency needs for care and provision equipment. Through the "IFET S.A." we extend the possibility, on the basis of exceptional procedures and by tendering, of course - the "IFET S.A." reminds us that it was the public limited company that is subject to the IFO and through which many competitions, central competitions, were conducted in the first wave of the pandemic - to be able to conduct such competitions in the next period. That is what I have to say, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u275	Thank you too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u276	Mr President, does the Minister accept questions?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u277	Mrs Notopoulou, questions can only be asked by the parliamentary representative or by the rapporteur. From MPs, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u278	Mr President, I ask why I should like to put forward legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u279	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u280	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am tabling Amendment No 462. Since Mr Dimas has already referred to Article 2 and Mr Georgiadis in Article 1, I shall refer to the procedure for characterising an investment as a strategy and in particular to the amendment of Article 17 of Law 4608. That is what the amendment is about. In other words, it concerns the procedure for subjecting an investment to the procedure, its procedure for placing it on aid for research and development projects. It is therefore a procedure where, when an application is received for an investment in strategic investment by the Hellenic Investment and External Trade Company, ENTERPRISE GREECE, this application is sent to the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology, which is obliged to see it within a certain period of time. To remind you, the whole procedure to be completed for applying for strategic investments is forty-five days. Therefore, within three days, the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology has to decide whether to give an opinion on this investment. Once accepted, he shall appoint an expert, who shall then deliver an opinion, the Secretary-General for Research and Technology shall deliver an opinion which shall be forwarded to ENTERPRISE GREECE. This ensures that the conditions laid down in Articles 6 and 25 of Community Regulation 651/2014 are fulfilled. That is the specific amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u281	Which, Minister, has 562 numbers. I'm talking about the Minutes. You missed him. It's 562 and not 462. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u282	Yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u283	I ask about the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u284	We are therefore correcting it, Mr President. At the same time, I am tabling the legislative improvements to the bill and amendments. I won't read them for the time economy. It's about seventeen, Mr. President. I'm presenting them to be distributed, so everyone can know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u285	They'll be distributed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u286	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u287	Mr Katrin, you are rapporteur and you can ask Mr Kikilia a question, but comments, etc. I would like to ask the rapporteurs' reports, please, very briefly. If you have any questions, I would be very happy to put them. Mr. Katrinis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u288	Mr President, it is indisputable that I should like to ask the Minister about his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u289	On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliamentary Representative may.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u290	My colleague will give me the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u291	You may ask. You have the word.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u292	Thank you very much. Minister, I said so in my prototype, but you were not present. I think that Article 5 of the amendment is a raw assumption of your Government's oligopoiety to early staffing with ICU beds and respirators of the public hospital structures of the country, which you are now running under procedures that you rightly anticipate for three days. But now that we're talking about 80 percent of the fullness of the IFS and at least three and a half thousand cases of COVID, and now you're running to buy in IFS beds, respirators and other equipment through IFET and the National Central Health Procurement Authority, which you should have done a long time ago. That's for sure. As far as Article 3 is concerned, we have made it clear that we will vote on the amendment because it is an amendment concerning emergency public health and we do not play as a change movement and we support them. We cannot, however, highlight your frustration. Article 3. You think retired doctors should come help the system. I do not understand the 30% reduction in pensions. Or we need doctors, allies now, to support a difficult effort and give them an incentive to come and help or create stunts. And one final question - I would like to comment on Article 4, so that we can understand it. Minister, what are you talking about? That in order to transfer an insurer from a public hospital to a private health structure, a written confirmation from the President of the EKA? I don't understand that. What kind of procedure is this? He's hospitalized by an uninsured man in a public hospital. I understand that it is necessary for the sake of a health assurance strategy to liberate either beds or IF beds from public hospitals. Why does it need to be signed and assured by the President of the EKA? Secondly, you must make it clear in this amendment, Minister, that an uninsured person who needs hospital treatment, regardless of whether he is in a public hospital today, will have the same chance. Because, as is set out in the provision, it is essentially only about cases of hospitals already in contact with public hospitals, which are not insured. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, too. The Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u294	Mr Colleagues, first of all there is the obligation of the EAW to confirm the movement and to raise safety issues. So there's a good one in our order. So what you're saying is not true. Secondly, with regard to uninsured people, I explained that the possibility, which was legislated in 2017-2018 and never applied, was extended, because there were no budget codes. It came to be implemented under our rule when they entered the codes and we were able to transfer, as you remember, from the first wave of our pandemic citizens uninsured by the HSHR's ID in private clinics. It extends to insurers in simple beds, as I had announced for several days and also applies retrospectively since September, so that everyone can be covered. Therefore, there is no distinction between insured and uninsured. On the contrary, it comes to confirming this provision. As far as the materials we have, i.e. monitors, stirrs, beds etc. are concerned, I would like to tell you that in logistics and storage of the Ministry of Health they exist and are distributed to hospitals. They are also planned to come to "bleed off" with the donation of the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation. There are those that have been anticipated and replace material that was old in an IF which already exists. It's available to you and the numbers, if you like, from the Department of Health. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Also, there is the prediction to extend the possibility of competitions for disposable material for testing, as we do. Here I have to tell you that he volunteered and completed a competition for rapid test two days ago. The European Commission is now sending this directive on rapid tests, but a month and a half before the Greek Government has made sure that the country has. Any other possibility that can be given to us, so that we can do our job in this incredible public health crisis, in this pandemic, we will make use of it. It does not mean that because we extend the possibility and we will proceed to other competitions there are no stores or are not sent to hospitals. For this reason, the truth was made, anyway, and northern Greece was thus supported. So there is also planning, which has to do with "matching", i.e. the creation of an ICU, which concerns building, infrastructure, engineering equipment and personnel and education. All this for the first time in Greece. And the possibility is, as has been made clear, for there to be in the Ministry of Health to be unlocked, so that it can take any appropriate action. Why? For a normality of the ERC? For a normality of a country to what it has to do with care or public health? No, of course, but for the biggest crisis experienced by the country in the last hundred years of public health, Europe and the whole world. So I think we will agree that all the appropriate things have been done and done and they have been done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u295	We continue with Mr Efstratios Simopoulos from New Democracy. Mr. Simopoulos, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u296	Mr President, today we are celebrating the Polytechnic uprising, an uprising which, when it took place, had different propositions from today's, of course, prepared the country to go to democracy. A democracy, which, of course, is perfectly solid today. Just, the programs have changed today. What are today's programmes, if not a question of democracy? In my opinion, the project we are talking about today is how we get out of the health and economic crisis. Everything else comes next. The battle taken out of the House today - the word "fight" - was a battle of reason, expressed by police forces, against the battle of irrationalism, expressed by those in the midst of the pandemic. We need to keep in mind that seasons change. We can't stay in the '70s, not in the '80s, not in the '90s, not even in 2000 and 2010. I now come to this draft law which, in my view, is mainly technical. It's moving in a positive direction. It is about how the functioning of the Competition Committee, the DIAMEA, will be improved, how platforms, for example, electronics, can be controlled by consumer associations. Of course, all this is in the end for the benefit of the consumer, all of us. At the same time, however, the amendments, which I would like to insist a little more on, are amendments concerning all Greek citizens or most, workers, professionals, entrepreneurs. They are moving in the right direction within the pandemic, taking into account that unfortunately we are not Saudi Arabia, we do not export oil and we really need to stand up when the pandemic stops, but at the same time our economy must be in such a situation that we can borrow at very low interest rates as we do today. However, because I have some improvements in these measures, I will make these proposals in the hope that they will be heard - although they will be known - and the ministers who are present or the ministers who will take note of what I am about to say. I know that there is a concern - I do not know if it has reached the level of implementation - what will happen with the affected companies or professionals who do not belong to affected CARs, but have a huge reduction in their turnover. They're practically hurt and they're right next to us. It may be a kiosk that is theoretically not closed, but essentially, because the world is not moving, it has a dramatic drop in turnover. As far as rents are concerned, the government realised that it should be more generous as far as owners are concerned. He does, but I suggest he sees the issue of small-scale owners more sensitively. There are small owners who literally live from rents because they rent a studio to a student. Do we have to find a way to ease them with 100% of the 40% that they lose? Also, should the large chains, which have very large turbulences, not benefit from this 40%? Should we go into a process, although it is difficult - I understand - to separate the owners from some groups? I come to the question of cheques. I'm trying to be a little specific. On the question of cheques, I think the government has acted very well. It just needs to take into account what is going to happen with people who will have a great deal of turbulence in November and in December and may not have had them in the past few months. We have to get them to...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u297	Mr. Simopoulos, excuse me. It's five minutes and not seven minutes the speaking time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u298	Good. How many minutes do I have, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u299	There's been a mistake. You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u300	But I started for seven minutes. Give me some more time. So a 30% drop is too big, too. Maybe we should take this 50% into account in November, make it 30%. Also, there is an issue with the professionals that provide donors. They are not exempted from VAT, while VAT is exempted by those who make donors. For example, a company, which will build something that will be a donation, is charged with VAT. This is something that this government must see very well, as it must see and support the long-term unemployed. Finally, I welcome the amendment to the 'Thess INTEC' business park, this very great intervention for Thessaloniki. The government is moving in a very right direction and using its weapons in the way it should. I've just made some suggestions, which I'm sure he'll see very sensitively.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr Simopoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, you are following us, there has been a slight misunderstanding over time. I'm so sorry. Time is five minutes. We continue with Mr. Efstathios Constantinidis from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u302	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, once again this year we have witnessed an incident which, I regret to say, has found fertile ground in unbearable comparisons and inappropriate parallelisms expressed by certain political forces on the occasion of the restrictions on today's anniversary. The majority of Greek citizens who suffer the painful consequences of the health crisis and consistently respect the recommendations of the experts expect all of us to express respect for the fighters of democracy, but at the same time also the unconditional condemnation of those who despise the rule of law and jeopardise public health. As far as the draft law is concerned, this deals with issues that concern the whole range of the market, namely from small businesses, the people's markets to digital trade, which is growing globally at a rapid pace. For this reason, and in particular in order to ensure a healthy and competitive environment, it is necessary to strengthen supervisory bodies, in order to carry out their duties, to identify possible market distortions and to impose penalties on the offenders, which is attempted by the specific provisions of the draft law, to which I shall refer below. The draft law to be adopted is structured in six - four on substance - parts as its title reveals and developed in twenty - two articles. The first part relates to the fuller adaptation of the national framework, to Regulation 1150/2019 of the European Parliament and of the Council on fairer treatment and the safeguarding of transparency in enterprises making use of online mediation services, which are practically digital platforms that enable businesses to display on search engines and to offer products and services to consumers by carrying out direct transactions. The fact is that online mediation services offer broad market access and large trading opportunities. On the other hand, the need for businesses to display and reach customers via the Internet sometimes force them to accept burdensome terms of cooperation with electronic platforms. The regulation itself calls on online service providers to implement a rapid and effective internal complaint control system and to respond directly to complaining users. In addition, under the provisions of the first part of the draft, it is possible to bring collective action to associations of persons and public bodies representing users of online services. A register shall be established in the Ministry of Development and Investment where these may be registered, regulated issues for monitoring by the DIFF in the reported providers, delimited the supervisory framework and set out the sanctioning framework, according to which this service may impose fines on the offenders, i.e. those who violate the rules of this digital ecosystem, starting from EUR 1,500 and reaching EUR 2 million. Furthermore, provision is made for the possibility of organising an Infringement Register, a tool which can be used to determine the amount of fines for those who are illegal. Part II contains arrangements relating to the operation of the young Interservice Market Control Unit. The provisions relating to its organisational structure and the responsibilities of the departments are amended, and a new organisational position is set up and managed in a self-evident manner and a management office. Part III of the Bill refers to the Competition Committee. Imported arrangements are aimed at ensuring its sustainable and efficient operation, in terms of the resources needed, in order to be able to serve its confessed neural role. In this way, financial self-sufficiency, which is an essential condition of its independence, is adequately addressed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Under the relevant provisions, the revenue of the authority is based on a reasonable proportion of the GDP of the country, but also on criteria of efficiency. In addition, the principle of drawing resources from other sources, such as European subsidies and aid, is being given. It is also laid down that the Commission is subject to statutory audit by the Court of Auditors only. Further issues are also regulated on the focus, but also on improving the framework for the purchase and rental of real estate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u303	Mr. Constantinidis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u304	Finally, a Committee of Experts shall be set up for the evaluation every three years of the work of the Committee. With the provisions - and I conclude, Mr President - in Part IV, there is a minor attempt, but not a minor contribution to the voluntary operation of local enterprises in municipal communities with a population of less than five thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u306	In addition, the operator responsible for the operation shall be allowed to operate on six of the seven days. These are the main regulations of the draft law and, together with the substantial amendments introduced, I recommend its vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u307	Thank you. Now Mrs Catherine Notopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, Mr President, for the reason. I don't know if the Minister of Health can hear me if he's still there. I want to tell you that I speak to you today from a city that has sinked into fear, terror, in sorrow. And that's not an exaggeration. It is the reality that Thessalonikos and every resident live in northern Greece. Hospitals are suffocating. For example, I would just like to mention the dramatic appeal made by the President of the Medical Association of Thessaloniki, Mr. Nitsas, for more intensive treatment facilities in the hospitals of the co-administered, but also extensive tests on staff, because many doctors and nurses may be asymptomatic coronary bodies, not to know that they are ill and working, dispersing the virus in the hospital. Employee President "AHEPA" says that "we can't stand any more worlds, we've got ceilings, and if we accept, we'll just continue to destroy more and more clinics." To understand the size of the problem of Thessaloniki, according to yesterday's announcement by the President of the WTO, "Papanikolaou" has forty-five beds of PTH filled with forty-one inner tubed, the "AHEMAP" thirty-seven in thirty-seven, the "Hippokratio" ten in thirteen, the "Birth" twelve in the sixteenth - waited yesterday four patients for intubation, so filled - "Papageorgiou" thirty in thirty, the "Saint Dimitrios" eight in eight, the "Saint Paul" seven in seven. Today, then, we have a town full of MATs, Police, Drones. Doctors will bring in? You're bringing me nurses? You'll bring in a test? Personal protective measures will you bring in? Intensive treatment units will you bring in? It takes an answer, at last, from the Ministry of Health and from the Prime Minister personally. Mr. Mitsotakis has pledged to Parliament that he will take all measures necessary to private clinics and other measures in order to save northern Greece. And no one has the illusion that this is happening in Thessaloniki. This is a precursor of what will happen in the next few days across the country. It seems that patients are being sorted. This is another country. It is not the country of success, of the sunset and of the opening of tourism without terms and conditions, which Mr Mitsotakis made lightly the heart a few months ago. It's not Mr. Zerva's town, telling us he defeated the coronary as Mayor. We need a solution today, and Parliament must stand up to its responsibility and demand that the Minister for Health and the Government be given a solution immediately, whatever is possible. Unfortunately, however, instead of the government taking on its responsibilities from panic, trying to hide the responsibilities, but also the fact that it did not have a solution, an operational plan in fact, it was backsuppressed once again, trying to set up an artificial scene of tension with images very distant from symbolism, certainly, but also democracy itself. I'll try to come to what we're talking about today in the little bit of time I have left. Unfortunately, even in this bill, we see a pale, essentially, many different provisions for key issues, to be resolved, but they do not actually interfere and provide a framework for a solution. Because, for example, of the sloppiness with which the government legislates, it comes today and legislates four months after the Component Law on the Market Control Unit amendments. They are therefore amendments to its staff, without specifying when, and how will officials receive the necessary know-how to fulfil their duties. You are actually asking twenty people to raise the burden of the whole country. A second problem with regard to the EMEA is that there is a very wide range of fines that are set, without intermediate categorisation, without a principle of proportionality and therefore leaves a window, it closes the eye, if you like, in political intervention. I cannot count on Article 16, although it has already been mentioned too many times, as you exclude the Competition Committee from many of the provisions relating to public bodies. That, too, is incomprehensible. We have heard some escapisms today and not answers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Nor can we concern ourselves with the fact that the public consultation was about seven articles, if I am not mistaken, of all twenty-two. The rest is being discussed in an unscrupulous, indulgent manner, underestimating once again Parliament itself. Because, in fact, an enemy has the government, and he is itself, who can't even stand dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u309	Mrs. Notopoulou, please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u310	I shall conclude, Mr President. I will go through the issue that has been mentioned by both our Parliamentary representative and our rapporteur and it has to do with e-commerce, so the visibility that exists in all end-user online hubs, but have had to stay out of too many small and medium-sized enterprises from these services, because they have not been able to exploit technology. You could have made a simplified cost-sharing SSR to help them. We've given you too many solutions and special ones than I have. Unfortunately, you didn't hear anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u311	Mrs. Notopoulou, please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u312	I shall conclude, Mr President. I shall close by making the proposal put forward by SYRIZA to make use of the framework for uncovered fixed costs, for all non-covered costs, on the basis of the opportunity given by the Commission. So we expect you to bring in a brave fixed-cost aid programme. I'm sure you won't, so you'll find us permanently against every attempt to dismantle small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. I have to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Mrs. Notopoulou. Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou from New Democracy has the floor for five minutes. Please be within time, Mr. Nicolakopoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u314	I will try, Mr President. Thank you very much. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this bill takes place at a critical national juncture. We are faced with the second wave of pandemic, which comes more aggressive, more dangerous. In the first phase we managed to win not only because timely measures were taken, but also because individual and collective responsibility was activated. That is what we need to act on and now, and in that all the political forces have a historic responsibility. Every day, the disease spreads, many of our fellow citizens lose their lives. I say this because in the second wave there are behaviours which are incompatible with the criticality of the moments. And I am referring not only to the attempt at political exploitation of the pandemic, but also to the behaviours that give the world the wrong messages, such as tables in houses and display photographs and presence in the ICUs without a mask. But I must also stand by the behaviours of political parties such as those of the SYRIZA, the Communist Party and Mera25 who want to turn a day of memory and democracy into a day of division, on a day of division, dangerous to public health, when the risk is the supreme good of the health of citizens. Laws apply to everyone. Let us not do this day, with the messages it brings, a bad day for public health. At this time of battle, all parties are required of individual responsibility and collective maturity so that we can help our doctors and nurses who give the battle to the front line. At this juncture, and especially on this day, we need above all unity. It is a critical battle that is taking place to safeguard public health. This battle is being fought primarily with the National Health System with doctors and nurses in the front line. It is true that the National Health System has not taken action for many years with the doubling of the IF, with the recruitment of medical and nursing personnel. It is, however, necessary to give other incentives to doctors to enter the National Health System. I am also calling here for the Step for doctors in all hospitals in the country, as well as for the hospitals and structures of Elijah, which are preparing to deal with incidents of COVID -19, but also for other emergencies. In fact, this crucial issue answers decisively the proposed amendment, which provides for the recruitment of medical staff and nurses by way of derogation from the provisions in our hospitals and our health structures, without the approval of the committee responsible and the prior commitment of credit. It is also important to provide for integration into the National Health System of medical and nursing staff in a voluntary way or in a contract or even a forced manner, as well as the possibility of including even pensioners. Very important is the possibility of health coverage of uninsured and vulnerable social groups provided for in the relevant amendment and in private health structures. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has a significant impact on the market, on the businesses, on the free professionals who have closed their shops and which we must support as their financial situation has been overturned. In this respect, this draft law, with the ministerial amendments that have been tabled, takes important steps to strengthen the aid which is to be added to measures already taken. I am sure that the government, if necessary, will take other measures to further support free entrepreneurs and businesses. I'm going to stand on some of them. I should particularly like to refer to the provision for a 40% reduction in the rent for the affected businesses and professionals, but also for the renting of the principal residence for the workers and their dependent members. It is also very important that care is taken for property owners who are also being tested by the crisis and for whom 50% of the loss of rent is anticipated by depositing in their bank account. The final amount of the real loss is thus limited to a small and reasonable proportion, considering the economic crisis affecting almost all of the market. It is particularly important that the provision of Article 3 of the amendment allowing undertakings whose operation has been suspended or seriously affected by the pandemic to repay the securities due within seventy-five days of their sealing or termination at the same time, but also that of the bearers of securities whose operation is suspended. This was a key demand for businesses and was successfully implemented in the first wave of pandemic. Another point I would like to stand down is the functioning of the Market Control Unit. It is a unit organized to protect and control the market from any form of shameful speculation. Unfortunately, even in these days, some entrepreneurs operate exclusively for profit. The necessary measures must be taken. Article 8 therefore deals with illegal trade, including illegal e-commerce. I would like to focus on a particular point of this bill, in Article 12, namely the amendment to Article 9, one of the operational objectives of the Directorate for Interservice Cooperation and, in particular, the..... It is a very important amendment for the Prefecture of Elias, as it promotes the production of olive oil, giving an incentive to every legitimate producer, businessman, private person to develop and develop olive oil production. Specific methods of analysis shall provide certificates of quality and organoleptic examination and enable cooperation with other countries in international programmes to search for new methods of analysis to improve quality and combat olive oil fraud. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, which is part of the pandemic, controls the development of the market in order to create a very competitive and directly attractive market in our country, with a sense of responsibility for every member of the market throughout the territory. It also provides support for affected enterprises and workers. I would therefore urge you to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u315	Thank you for the time too. Mr. Evangelos Apostolos has the floor from SYRIZA for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u316	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u317	Mr. Apostle, you're not sounding well. There's a problem with the sound. We will go to the next speaker and come back. Mr Maraveyas has the floor from New Democracy. We will continue with Mr Apostleu after the matter has been restored.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u318	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Polytechnic anniversary and what is happening today should normally be an opportunity to reflect on what we all mean, in 2020, the various steps towards the American Embassy, what public health protection measures are important in the midst of a coronary, and finally what our priorities should be today and what they are left of another era, which, unfortunately, some people want to regain from Formol to show, once again, their idealism. Here I must stress that no course, as much as the Left wants to give it the character of religious famine, is the only way to celebrate a political anniversary, which, of course, knows both the Communist Party of Greece and the Mera25. Now, how these steps are compatible with the need to limit the coronary, they of course cannot explain it to us. And personally, as a doctor and as a Member, I would like to see another sense of responsibility from the opposition. Most of all, however, citizens would like to see from all of us that we understand what is happening around us, that politicians do not ultimately live in a virtual world cut off from reality. Mr President, it is the reality that determines the policy. And at this time of responsibility New Democracy has to face, even alone, the new exceptional circumstances that are taking shape both in society and in the economy. Thus, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis also attempts in this bill to solve real problems and to help the national economy in the midst of a new double crisis, the second wave of the koroni and the consequent horizontal lockdown, which obviously affects the market and, in particular, the retail trade. Such a support measure for the real economy is the planned allocation of other EUR 900 million, through the public investment budget for 2020. I would remind you that with the present increase the total allocation available for the year only from the Ministry of Development to cover exceptional needs due to a coronary exceeds EUR 10.4 billion. In particular, however, I would like to remind you of the new measures taken by the government in view of the pandemic crisis: I shall start by limiting the sale of industrial goods that are not first-hand by a supermarket during the restrictive measures. The aim is to ensure market equilibrium and healthy competition conditions in retail trade. At the same time, in November, the third cycle of the repayable advance shall be completed. Already the number of beneficiaries who received the third repayable advance exceeded ninety thousand and who paid a total of more than EUR 1.77 billion. I would remind you that only from the first three cycles of repayable advances have been granted EUR 3.4 billion to more than a hundred forty-five thousand beneficiaries. In the advance 4 to be granted in December, for all enterprises, 50% of the aid will not be repaid. Companies that close on a state mandate are entitled to participate, irrespective of the drop in turnover, including all individual and new enterprises. The cost of the repayable advance 4 is estimated at EUR 1 billion and the next repayable advance of EUR 5 to EUR 700 million immediately. For undertakings which are suspended by a public authority or which are significantly affected, the possibility of suspending the payment of VAT payable in November to 30 April 2021 shall be allowed. This debt can be repaid in 12 instalments at zero rate since May 2021. In addition, for undertakings which are suspended by a public authority ordering the suspension of payment of the instalments of regulated tax and payment liabilities paid in November. Their repayment shall be converted into corresponding instalments at the end of the current arrangement, as already done for all firms affected in the previous months. The firms affected are entitled to a reduction in the rent of 40% in their professional property and to the suspension of repayment of their loans, in consultation with the Association of Greek Banks by the end of the year. It is also maintained for enterprises which have a reduction in turnover their ability to participate in the PLENARY WORK programme, except those whose workers are, of course, suspended. Finally, according to an amendment tabled by the Co-Presponding Ministries, payment of the cheques is granted seventy-five days from their expiry date in 2020. The measure concerns undertakings that have suspended their operation by a State order or are affected, as in the six months of April to September 2020 their turnover decreased by at least 50% compared to the corresponding period of the previous year. Certifications of these enterprises which expire until the entry into force of the law will not enter the TIERIA and in cases where a payment order is pending against them, the issue shall be suspended.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u319	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u320	Yes, Mr President, I shall conclude. For the bearers who will not collect the cheques, there will be a corresponding extension of seventy-five days of their cheques and the non-inclusion of the cheques. Mr President, I would like to close up in a few words on the amendment by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, on the implementation of projects to restore the affected regions of Thessaly by the 'January'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u321	Two words, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u322	Of course, Mr President. These are necessary arrangements to speed up the award and execution of public infrastructure repairs by the Ministry itself. It is extremely important to provide for the completion of projects within a year and a half from their assignment and their financing directly from the budget. We are talking about an extraordinary programme of 150 million, which will support not only the Magnesia I represent, but all the inhabitants of Thessaly. It is urgent treatment of open wounds caused by the 'Janus', whose size exceeds the capabilities of the relevant ATTs. That is why we must publicly recognise this crucial political intervention and commit ourselves that together with the local communities of Thessaly, we will be next to the government to facilitate the acceleration of these critical projects for the future of our region. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u323	Let's go back to Mr. Apostleu now. Mr. Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u324	...(Don't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u325	Mr. Apostle, you don't have a good connection. We can't hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u326	Should we attempt another kind of connection later?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u327	Unfortunately, Mr Apostlelos, we will proceed to Mr Goka from the Change Movement. Mr. Goka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u328	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would also like to mention today's anniversary of the Polytechnic which we are honouring because of the well-known dangerous developments in the pandemic, in a different way. This does not reduce the historical value of this top anniversary. We honor those who have fought against the dictatorship, the young people of that time and particularly we honor the memory of the dead in this fight for freedom, for democracy, for equal opportunities for all. The dangerous development of the pandemic makes it the first priority to tackle it, to protect the health and life of citizens. Mistakes, flaws and delays have contributed to this development which now requires common efforts and a single front based on common sense. That is why we are neither involved in the formation of a setting of tension and conflict by authoritarian behaviors nor the fronts that trigger polarization. The priority is the country's health fronts - the top of the moment - but also the developments in the economy, not only in the future but at the present time, the new daily deadlocks for professionals, for self-employed, for farmers, for businesses, for closed shops and focusing, especially on small and micro-enterprises, while always our national issues. We are discussing a draft law on the market: regulations on e-commerce, market control in the Competition Committee. Attention, however, because there must be a market with businesses not only large, but also small and medium-sized ones and small ones, with market and production from the primary sector, but also with consumers. A market which almost 70% thinks the measures are inadequate. For the specific provisions of the bill, ladies and gentlemen, our rapporteur, Mr Katrinis, referred more specifically to all meetings. I would like to highlight a few points on the market. One is the planetary traders with totalitarian licenses circulating everywhere. Many problems arise. They compete with professionals from remote and problematic regions and the issue needs to be addressed at least where such professionals operate. The problem of liquidity remains the biggest problem in the economy, as does a great deal of support for workers. Small and medium-sized enterprises have only been strengthened by the liquidity financing programmes, such as TPIX II and the Guarantee Fund. The Small and Small Enterprises Support Programme is currently under way by the regions. Unfortunately, all small businesses are excluded. I have a proposal from the Artas Chamber of Commerce in Epirus, which presents twenty-nine proposals on many issues and many requests. But it is not time for me to refer to all of this in detail. I've made a relevant report. I'm coming back to the Small Business Aid Program. They need to change the criteria that are different in each region. I don't know why. The budgets are increasing, as the region of Epirus did. That's good. There's gonna be more in here, but a lot of people are going to stay out. It is therefore necessary to provide a horizontal amount for all, and then by other criteria, for the rest to be given. Farmers are only financed with 150 million so far and 28 million are foreseen under the National Development Programme 6.85 billion. Going to the amendments - to close - an important obligation, other than those regulated by the amendment of the Ministry of Finance, is the cost of this period of traffic charges. Please fill in this amendment by suspending this obligation for professionals in affected sectors, for lorries, buses, tourist buses and workers who are also suspended. As you can see, it is impossible to respond to this obligation. With the CBS layout, we agree. They've suffered a great deal of damage. But the sanitary protocols must be respected in the movement. With regard to the amendment to restore damage to the 'January' - and I shall close with that - I shall say that: First of all, the Ministry exercises responsibility over the region, obviously also with resources from the region, because of the urgent need that arises. Procedures for drawing up studies and awarding projects, such as implementation studies and environmental licensing, shall also be circumvented. The award procedure with a special invitation to three companies and the drawing up of the implementation study by the contractor poses risks of diabetics. Specifications must enable more than one to participate and not to repeat the phenomenon of commissions for hotspot...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u329	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u330	I'm closing fast. Projects must be made quickly, but transparency and equal access to procedures on the part of contractors and professionals must be protected. In any case, we will monitor closely and monitor the procedures and the implementation of the necessary projects. Finally, we call on you to accept our amendment on the application of provisions relating to the same problems from the same or other causes and natural disasters, as in Crete recently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u331	Thank you, Mr. Goga. Mr Vassiliou has the floor from New Democracy for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u332	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, allow me to say a few words about the anniversary. November 17 is a day of remembrance and honor for those who participated in the revolt of the Polytechnic and especially for those who lost their lives. In their faces we are also honoring all the victims of the dark period of the seven-year dictatorship, first the democratic state itself. The events of November 17, ‘73 and those days, are the leading moment of resistance to a repressive and rotten regime, which has led to the collapse. Today, we are already in the fourth decade of the third Hellenic Republic, which is, despite the trials carried out by our country, the longest period of peace and political stability of the modern Greek state. The unprecedented and special conditions that we have experienced in recent months do not allow us to honour this day, as we should. Our pandemic lacked national festivities, religious ceremonies, anniversaries of liberation. Today, it also deprives us of the day of memory of the Polytechnic insurrection. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u333	Mr. Comrade, can you hear us? We're going to continue with Mr. Femello. Mr. Femelle, can you hear us? Did Mr. Vasiliadis hear us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u334	Mr. President, can you hear me? I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u335	Yeah, we're listening. Please, Mr. Femmelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u336	Mr. President, can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u337	I'm listening. The point is, you guys don't listen to me now. Mr. Comrade, can you hear me? Because of a technical problem, we will be interrupted for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u338	Mr. Famelle, can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u339	I hear you properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u340	Are we ready to start? Mr. Femelle? I'm sorry, does Mr. Famelos or Mr. Apostolos hear us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u341	I can hear you, Mr. President. Can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u342	Temporarily, we're listening. Mr. Apostle, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, Mr President. I will start by referring to today's day, which is not only a day of memory, but above all a day of defence of rights and, of course, of democracy. Unfortunately, the government's responsibility could not be honoured accordingly. Mr President, I would like to pay particular attention to Article 19 of the bill, which incorporates the regulation which solves the problem of the functioning of the Sunday people's markets and, in particular, that of the Constituents... Sunday's popular markets were institutionalised to serve a purpose, to allow the people of the province on Sundays to obtain their products from compatriots, farmers. Thus, consumers ensure lower prices, better quality and, above all, develop the necessary social relationships that build confidence between the producer and the consumer. At the same time, other salesmen in the region were added to these people by offering goods produced in the wider region and covering other needs of the inhabitants as well as producers. These people have such an understanding which is now an institution for these regions in history, not only because they have endured time, but also because they have served the element of social function in the countryside. This character is kept to date, despite any changes that are observed over time, particularly by adding products outside the agri-food sector. The abolition in 2017 of Sunday as the day of operation of the people's markets was initially right as a move, wanting to leave a free day for the disposal of organic products. But he didn't walk almost anywhere. On the other hand, there have been problems with charging exterior fines to farmers on the people's markets. It is a good thing that the functioning of these markets will be monitored and regulated by a committee involving local society through self-government, as well as farmers themselves, with their representatives, who will ensure that the market is safeguarded and that they determine the issues of its operation. The current provision in the bill on the operation of these markets six days a week leaves a free day for farmers. Of course, as most of us know, there is no such day for farmers and especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. On the contrary, several work three hundred sixty - five days a year. Let me say a few words about Amendment 557/35, to which the Minister for Infrastructure referred. In fact, he said that it was also applied to Evia, an Evia which, as is well known, has suffered a tragedy. There were eight dead. Lost real estate. In the mud they drowned. Today, despite the fact that the Minister for Infrastructure made these announcements, we, at least, have not seen any results coming as a result of this regulation. At the moment, we are not interested - and I stress this particularly on behalf of my compatriots - in the responsibilities. We want the infrastructure projects to be done immediately and correctly. If, Minister, there are no projects on the way... We will unfortunately also have the next tragedy that we are going to have. So, for our part, we clearly emphasise that it is important for us to implement these projects and, of course, through such a framework and environmental issues and issues for the award of these projects to go hand in hand with what we say about good and proper administration and, above all, the implementation of specific provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u344	Thank you. Mr Vassiliade has the floor for two minutes, before we went to Mr Famelos, as we had already interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, Mr President. The provisions of the draft law protect entrepreneurial users from unfair practices and opaque procedures, the possibility of legal representation by recognised representative organisations and associations, which are now registered in the new Register of Associations and Public Entities. The supervisory authority is defined as the Interservice Market Control Unit, for which a number of operational issues are also regulated. In conclusion, this is a draft law in the right direction, which is necessary at that time and we therefore support it. Allow me, Mr President, to refer also to some of the various - I would say - amendments. It's understandable. There are issues which, unfortunately, require the new outbreak of the pandemic. Ensure the uninterrupted functioning of local government, facilitates clubs and unions to take over their antiquities. Here I would like to stress the urgent need to support unions and, in particular, cultural ones. Already amateur sports clubs will receive a necessary help. The amendment by the Ministry of Finance reintroduces support measures, which we saw during the first period of application of generalised restrictive measures. Reductions in rent are necessary, as are partial support for owners. However, I would like to point out that in the case of student rentals, the extension of the scheme should be considered so that it does not only involve children of parental workers in affected enterprises. And business owners are studying children, so are free professionals. Our pandemic affects us all. Therefore, measures should be more horizontal. Also, hotel units and accommodation must be practically supported, especially in areas that are not at the forefront of tourism and, of course, the focus, which has made a great effort at the expense of adapting to health measures and yet the shops, unfortunately, must remain closed. The repayable advance will give a temporary relief, but they need more brave measures. In conclusion, I would like to say that with Amendment No 561 and specific number 39, it deals with issues of the Ministry of Health, mainly medical and paramedical staff. Our society is being tested by the second wave of pandemic. The eyes of the country are in northern Greece. In particular, Pella has the majority of cases in proportion to its population, several of which are heavy. Health structures and aid, with the latest of the six new ICUs in the Yannitsa unit, are at present withstand, but are at their limit. There's mostly needs for staff. Many recruitments were made to nursing and paramedical staff. But more doctors, nurses and medical equipment are needed. Today we are talking, with COVID, a hundred and twenty fellow citizens and above in the two hospitals in Pella. I ask, Mr. Ministers, the even greater reinforcement of Pella's hospital units. Doctors, nurses, paramedical staff are making superhuman efforts and I thank them on behalf of all my fellow citizens for their titanic battle every day. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, Mr Vasiliadis. Mr. Famelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u347	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, today... who remains not only alive but also permanent. This message today receives a new meaning through the motto "Bread, Education, Health and Democracy" Along with political commitment... we also pay tribute to the dead of the Polytechnic, those who refuse the anti-digit fight. They are the same who reproduce stereotypes of right-wing inspiration today in the Mitsotakis Government. What if even the junta newspapers the next day were writing about eleven dead? What if the National Research Foundation published research results for twenty - four documented victims and sixteen anonymously? They are the same negligents who publicly state that the Polytechnic was the founding myth of "throll" - listen, listen! - Left and post-multiple. And yet, Mr President, the statements you hear from the ministers of the New Democracy. This year the Right has taken a step further in questioning democratic functions. The decision of the Chief of Police, as well as today's sanitary safe mobilization is inspirational. It is part of a strategy of repression and intimidation implemented by the New Democracy, because it is annoyed by youth, the ideas of the Polytechnic, but more so by the teaching of popular uprising that rights are conquered and democracy and progress with struggles. The Left today has shown how... in practice, we're manipulating public health. Right has shown that in conditions of health crisis limited rights, while on the back door bankers are amputated, public property is sold out, labour rights are being destroyed. Even the Christmas gift will not be paid. And while there were serious health problems for police officers too, the protection rules were violated. It is a healthy bomb the attitude of the police today in the center of police-led Athens with all these ridiculous things on the back, for example, of the MPs of Mera25, as well as the incredible violence in the gathering of the Communist Party of Greece. Today, however, the Government has refused to make the health committee's practices public, confirming the scientists' complaints that they are being used for political purposes. Finally,... the Mitsotakis Government, because it was supposed to be in Thessaloniki at two meetings. On 19 October and 22 October, the outbreak of cases was ignored, the demands of self-government were ignored, as was made public yesterday, the government was asked not to celebrate, as Mr Djijkosta says, was ignored by Mr Mitsotakis. Who's in charge? Society and Opposition respect the rules. The government didn't do it, though. It does not do so today in hospitals and health issues. But what about competition issues concerning the bill is not the same? In the midst of the crisis, don't some people do business? What about protection and equipment? Why did you, Ministers, allow the shamefulness of antiseptics and masks? Why wasn't there consideration? Not to mention the fiasco for the school masks, but also the large number of complaints even today. The masks in schools didn't go, but the "friends" change and make companies even in a day for... Liberalism, however, for Mr Mitsotakis, means that everything is sold, public wealth, public property and public health, and the complaint is clear: because I wanted to close public health, they did not do intensive treatment units, they did not hire and that is why the start of the pandemic found us. Mr. Mitsotakis' ideological choices contributed to the explosion. In energy, it's revealing what's going on. While the krone leads all the states and states of Europe to keep public structures, today Mr Hatzidakis has in auction the entire gas system to a private person, and announced that the electricity network will be sold. The assignment of everything... and the value... Today there is a risk that public infrastructures and infrastructures of national and energy importance will be given the finest time to insolvent investors. That is why we are calling for a moratorium on privatisation. Greece cannot today sell its property in the middle of a pandemic and, indeed, when they want to make private monopolies without any risk to the private. At the same time, in the midst of a pandemic, as if we were talking about competition, Mr Hatzidakis announced additional burdens for all - consumers and electricity producers - while there is a cartel in terms of costs, because there is a disgrace in electricity trade, And while we asked what the Competition Committee is doing about this shameful event, do you know what the answer was, since the relevant ministers are here? What is being monitored is working with the Energy Committee and a report of ideas. Other words to be loved. In April, however, suppliers lived in this society that is also tested in this economy with 400%, four times over a wholesale electricity production price. And today Mr Hatzidakis comes to legislate together with the involvement of suppliers of electricity, increasing costs and the average trend. I mean, the ministers you're there from the Ministry...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u348	Mr. Femelle, you don't sound. Let's continue with Mr. Spanaki. Here, you have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u349	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin with the amendments because they contain just as important, but above all urgent provisions. And because today is a special day, let me say that the priority of the Greek society today is public health and its protection. Political parties must not be robbed of an anniversary and impressed. We do not have this luxury, at the same time that we must defend and we must defend public health by every means, to intensify impressions. The Greek people require us unity, unity to deal with. Today, our Parliament is called, in addition to the bill, to vote for the provisions of very important amendments which once again show that we have a government with fast reflexes. We have a government with determination to face this health crisis that creates a simultaneous economic crisis. And at this point no political party has the luxury but only to give a prerogative on the problems of the market and of everyday life. That's what the government of Mitsotakis does. This is what the New Democracy Government is doing in a concrete and clear way. It has already been heard by the New Democracy's excellent colleagues on the provisions that come with the amendments, such as the extension of the mandate of sports, culture and all clubs up to 31-12-2020, in order to address serious issues arising from the daily operation of clubs. However, let me say that further arrangements are in place for the duration of this health crisis, but also for its consequences, such as the payment of 50% of the rent reduction to property owners, which is also recognised by the Pan-Hellenic Real Estate Federation. At this point I would like to say that, with a parliamentary intervention, I have asked the Minister of Finance for this reduction to be duty-free, irresponsible and inappropriate. In the same amendment, however, there are other favourable regulations which have not been heard, such as the new suspension of time limits for the cheques, the arrangements for tourist accommodation, the extensions of time limits and debt suspensions, the reduced VAT, and, of course, we have a suspension of auctions for the affected Samos. And as we are committed, we will also have a clear provision that will come from the Minister of Justice, with which we will be suspending the auctions under a specific provision that will come. So we do not have the luxury, ladies and gentlemen, to tell the Greek people lies, to tell the Greek people words that create a risk. We do not have this luxury at these critical times for Greek society, for Europe and the world as a whole, where an unprecedented health crisis creates us other data and other conditions. But we should not worry, because we have a government, we have a Prime Minister who is determined, consistently, at a speed that creates that climate to cope with the difficulties that come. I should also like to go on to Amendment 556, where we have an extension of the deadline for the statements of the 'whereabouts' until the end of February 2021. It was something that needed to be done, because there were problems and delays in the process, for example, we saw long tails outside the banks. In the same amendment, we have rules on the civil courts which allow them to define new court as soon as possible for cases that fell within the lockdown. There's provision for disciplinary and judicial bodies in football... cases. We also have an amendment from the Ministry of Culture and Sport. We have a clear arrangement regarding the provision of financial rewards to athletes with significant discrimination in the races of the closed track and the pool of twenty-five meters. It's very right to set up. In any case, we must not leave gaps and margins for misinterpretations in the provisions of the laws. But we also have an amendment to Thessaly for the consequences we have from the 'January'. And we see SYRIZA's colleagues on the channels turning around and risking and saying that we forgot about Thessaly, we forgot Karditsa. This is where the Ministry of Transport has the opportunity with this amendment to delegate and carry out restoration work. This does not restrict the role of the region and local government, but speeds up the implementation and completion of projects. There are other amendments. The two were filed yesterday. If I have time left, I'll come back. But let me say two words about the bill. We in the first part have taken additional measures to incorporate the European regulation, which takes measures and defines the institutional framework for electronic trading platforms.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u350	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u351	Two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u352	Just a minute, Mr. Comrade, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u353	Thank you very much, Mr President. He has for the first time made arrangements for relations between the platforms and businesses, trying to ensure that companies, which offer goods and services in Europe are better informed about online practices. Electronic commerce will operate under clear rules. Specific obligations are laid down for electronic platforms and search engines. Efficient dispute resolution mechanisms are being introduced and others. We have a single set of rules for Europe with benefits for all sides, and above all for transparency and avoidance of unfair practices. This bill facilitates trade, entrepreneurship, new business models. It strengthens innovation and uses technology increasingly. Enterprises selling on-line products in Europe today are estimated at one million. Today's bill - and here I am closing, Mr President, and thank you for the time being - brings the necessary arrangements to ensure this for our country. With an effective...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u354	Mr. Comrade, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u355	I wanted to say by closing, Mr President, that Greece will take a look at Europe and progress, and at the same time our Government will legislate with great help to the citizens in need. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u356	Thank you. Mr Dionysios Stamenitis has the floor and we are finishing with Mr Xanthos. For five minutes, Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u357	Mr President, thank you very much. I am amazed to hear the views of SYRIZA colleagues on the decisions and actions of the Government concerning the celebration of the Polytechnic School. SYRIZA's gentlemen chose the micro-party interest in the protection of public health under pretext of the course and the Polytechnic. It was irresponsible, because in the exceptional circumstances we are experiencing some are trying to work on the anniversary of the Polytechnic and to make no difference to public health. Hypocrisy, because we did not see them showing the same sensitivity when the national anniversarys of 25 March and 28 October, like Easter, were not celebrated. This has not reduced their importance. The religious belief of the Greeks has not been lost. Democracy is here... Today the struggle of the Greek people for freedom is an example of the struggle that all Greeks are giving together for the virus. Today we are honouring 17 November in protecting health. There is no doubt that we are going through an extremely difficult period. The main front is the battle with the coronary and the difficulties identified in the sanitary arm. The efforts to curb the virus and to protect public health, as in the first wave of the pandemic event, have a number of consequences in the areas of the economy. The measures limiting the movement and suspending the business of enterprises and shops create new data which they temporarily pose, and obstacles to the development of the economy and the production process. In this extremely difficult context, the leadership of the Ministry of Development brings this bill to the vote. In its four parts it contains provisions aimed at the implementation of the European Union's institutional framework for electronic commerce in the Greek market, as well as a number of provisions amending the provisions of 4712/2020 on the staffing of the EMEA, its administration and, more generally, its more effective organisation and functioning. The draft law establishes a new method of financing the Competition Committee. The reason for making this regulation necessary, as indicated by the rapporteur of the New Democracy and as described in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, is the fact that the committee lacks sufficient resources and gives greater flexibility to the use of its real estate in order to strengthen the independence of the authority for the benefit of consumers and businesses. For my part, I would particularly like to focus on the provisions contained in the fourth part of the draft law, entitled 'Provisions for the functioning of the market'. In particular, I would like to refer to Article 18 and to the provision introduced, which regulates the working hours of small retail shops in areas of less than five thousand inhabitants, namely the voluntary operation of small shops based in these areas all Sundays of time, a real regulation, which faces a problem, which is facing thousands of our fellow citizens, professionals in these areas of the province and Pella. So what? That they were in danger of imposing a fine because they opened on Sundays to serve the people. In addition, with regard to Article 19, in order to regulate the operation of the outdoor markets, I would like to say that the possibility for the competent body to determine, in cooperation with the participants, the hours and days of operation of the people's markets is a provision that will surely contribute to the better service of the consumer, as each region has its specific characteristics. In addition, I would also like to make a reference to the arrangement of the Ministry of Development on the temporary ban on selling supermarkets industrial products, which are not first-needed items, such as furniture, clothes, household appliances, electrical appliances and others, for as long as the respective shops remain suspended due to restrictive measures to deal with the pandemic. Once again - even with today's regulation - it turns out that the current government - and here the leadership of the Ministry of Development - listens to the citizens, listens to their bodies and representatives, disgraces the concerns and goes on with regulations that work for their benefit. As the Minister pointed out in committee, the intention is clearly not to intervene in the functioning of the market, but to ensure equilibrium and equivalency in the market. That is why there were no reactions from anywhere. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make another comment here. Anyone who monitors the legislative work and the legislature can easily find the will of this government to solve problems, to overcome strangles, which make it difficult for citizens to live and which often harm them financially, to simplify procedures and to create an institutional framework and through this practice to release all the productive forces of the country at the same time. The coronary. Indeed. He's been blocking and confronting us with difficult situations, unprecedented for the modern data. As I have said, however, for one moment this was not an alibi for Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Government of New Democracy. Priorities were prioritised, requiring immediate initiatives and actions. At the same time, the plan was drawn up that will allow us the next day of the pandemic to continue the work for which the Greek citizens chose us in July 2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u358	Mr Colleague, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u359	Today's bill also includes the production of important legislative work by this government aimed at developing the economy and the reconstruction of the country. Thank you very much for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u360	Thank you. Mr. Blonde will now be given the floor. After Mr. Blonde, Mr. Boukoros will be given the floor for five minutes, who has not been seconded, and the Minister will finish the procedure. Please keep time, because we should be done by 20.00, so that the workers don't get permission...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u361	Don't arrest us!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u362	I don't know that. Here, Mr. Xanthi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to place myself on an amendment tabled by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group concerning the institutional disclosure of the practices of the Ministry's Committee of Experts, which, as we all understand, plays a key role in the measures that are currently being taken in the country and affect the daily lives of people, the functioning of the economy and the functioning of society. We therefore believe - and this is also proof of this - that when there are major public health crises, the first thing that needs to be ensured - is that health systems are strengthened, that citizens have access to the necessary vaccines, medicines, etc. - is to have a climate of transparency, substantiated scientific information, valid, open access to real data, to help society realize the danger and to have conscious compliance with the necessary restrictive measures. We have said from the outset that the government must ensure this climate, which facilitates social and political consensus and avoid either transferring responsibility and hiding the government, the ministers, the Prime Minister behind the scientists' suggestions and opinions, or, of course, there is a climate of distrust, questioning the authority and credibility of this committee. That is why we have said from the outset that it must be transparent, that the public presentation and decisions must be provided for and that the epidemiological data, which the scientists have, can be informed and understood, and that the scientific world of the country, as well as every citizen, can be seen to be critical of the situation and that there are institutional security differences in the functioning of the committee, such as, for example, there is a declaration of conflict of interest, which was presented during this term of office and which we have denounced, but which has not established anyone's ears. There was provocative and privileged treatment of a specific diagnostic centre by the public system to meet needs at some point that had blocked a large public laboratory, the CSR. There was cooperation without criteria, selective, with a diagnostic centre, of which a scientific partner was a member of the committee and, at the moment, is also the porte-parole, the man, i.e., who, at least twice a week, presents the data. There are therefore multiple aspects in this case, which require institutional armour, precisely so that we do not give anyone, in a period of society's mistrust, in a period of insecurity and uncertainty, to strengthen a climate of conspiracy of paradoxical, irrational and unscientific speech. Recently a study was published in GUARDIAN. The influence of distrust on scientific data and government management in twenty-five countries has been studied. Unfortunately, our country was second in a very high order. I think that in this environment, the answer is what we are proposing: transparency, institutional immunity, separation of roles. The last citizen should understand that it is science, which has to monitor the data and recommend appropriate measures to the state in any case, and the government and other policy which obviously has to weigh all the other elements and data and make the most of the appropriate decisions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me a minute, Mr President. So we insist very much on this. We have not seen any response from the government. The Minister told us this morning that the government rejected the proposal of counterpopulation. In my opinion, this is a bad sign of writing. We are reintroducing this, as we are reintroducing the proposal that we have tabled since the first day of this crisis, so that there will be a intergroup committee on the transparency of the House, which will monitor the extraordinary expenses, commissions, extraordinary recruitments, the whole management of the public money that is currently being done, so that there will not be any shadows, so that there is no scope for criticism of opaque and self-evident manipulation. That's not what happened either. I think the government has displayed excessive complacency and arrogance. She first sent the signal of reassurance. There's a political background for reassurance. It was not a psychological need, it was not explained in psychological terms "we were pressed by the quarantine and wanted to relax". The government tried to politically capitalize on the first good course of pandemic, so it sent the wrong signal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Labour and Social Affairs, Economic, Development and Investment, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Health and Energy, Justice, Home Affairs, Migration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, and the State Secretary for Culture and Sport have today tabled a draft law on 'Support measures for workers and vulnerable social groups, social security arrangements and provisions for strengthening the unemployed'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr. Bukkaro, come to Stepma to speak without your mask. Immediately afterwards, the Minister will take the floor for ten minutes and the procedure will be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u365	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u366	You want to ask something? I'll give you the floor before Mr. Bukowo. Mr. Haritsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u367	I would just like to mention, Mr President, the three-provision amendment tabled by the Ministry of Development. It's the Ministry's amendment. We believe that these provisions are reasonable. It's, I think, in a positive direction. So I'm going to announce that we're going to vote for it. I also hope that the question referred to in Article 2 of this amendment, the investment 'Thess INTEC' in Thessaloniki, a project which I had dealt with, when I was at the Ministry, from now on and with this regulation, can progress in an unresolved way and be implemented in the next few years. I think it will be a very positive development. We are therefore voting in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u368	Thank you very much, Mr. Haritsi. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, no, no, that is not the case. Do you want to get a dentext? You want a dentistry. Good. We're starting with Mr. Villardo. Do you want the floor, Mr. Villardo? Oh, no. Mr. Synatiakis, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u369	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u370	Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u371	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u372	You told me you didn't want to talk. Now you're telling me...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u373	Mr President, the parliamentary representative speaks, then the rapporteurs end and the Minister concludes. How do we do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u374	Mr. Haritsis is a parliamentary representative. You told me not a while ago. I asked you all and you said no. However, since you asked me for the floor and asked me for the floor earlier, I had to give the floor to Mr Syntagakis. Please. As you understood, Mr Haritsis, you have created this unwittingly, because you have taken the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u375	Mr President, I am a parliamentary representative. I am entitled for a minute to ask for the floor. I didn't do a dentistry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u376	No problem. You did very well. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u377	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u378	I beg your pardon, Mr President, but why is the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative not speaking now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u379	Wait a minute. He has asked for the floor, Mr. Synthetakis, who has no problem. Don't you want him to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u380	Is she a rapporteur? Are we going to change the process now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u381	But we won't stop the process. He asked for the floor for a minute. Mr. Katrin, I had given the floor. I'm telling you again. I gave the floor and you told me no. Mr. Bukkoro has come up...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u382	Mr President, what you are doing is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u383	What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u384	It's unacceptable. What we come up with is not said in the Chamber. We are therefore bringing you back to order by telling you that the parliamentary representative speaks, that the rapporteurs conclude and that the Minister ends, if you do not know the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u385	Mr. Catherine, do you say when you tell me you won't speak, do you say so to speak? Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u386	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u387	Please! When you tell me you don't want to talk, you tell me you don't want to talk. It's not my fault, I have no responsibility. Tell me you want to talk. And you said that, and Mr. Mamulakis said so, and Mr. Villards said so. Mr. Synthrakis asked me in fact for the floor, and I told him to take the lead, and then Mr. Bukokouros will speak and then you will speak. Please, too! I didn't create any issues. You told me and I accepted it. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u388	Mr President, the government today served in an orgy of violence, authoritarianism and terrorism. He reminded us of the darkest times. She's stigmatizing that. Of course, it doesn't surprise us. This is the New Democracy. He's a party of the capital, the American Embassy, NATO. It's not the coroner that bothered her. It is the Communist Party of Greece, which is what it is, which does not kneel, is the rigid mind of the Communists, the fighting mass class trade union movement. The JRC today held an exemplary meeting. That bothered her. And he found the ally. It is Velopoulos, who even his MPs have not missed the opportunity in a foolish way to serve as an anti-communist cresed party. In other words, what New Democracy did today because it was with the back wall, gave it to the Greek Solution. So they compete with New Democracy and Greek Solution who will fill the gap of the Golden Dawn. Today we have received unprovoked attacks, from the Secretary-General of the JRC, other members of our party to the MPs, with dozens of protesters. He is currently in GDR in terrible detention conditions, without giving them the right to personal protective equipment because of the coronary, which you are cutting, without the lawyers being allowed to see them, and Mr Chrysochoidis and the Ministry of Civil Protection otherwise tell us that there was no police force today. Reality is one. You've been defeated, gentlemen. You're defeated today. Your ideology has been defeated, your practice has been defeated. Your state has been defeated by state today. That's the reality. So the people will not kneel, Mr President. It has the experience, organization, fighting, so that it is possible in the most difficult conditions and seasons to repudiate the attack of the parties of capital, the same of the bourgeoisie class. We will not put it down and the days that come will be brighter and more redeemable for the people, as long as the people themselves put their own seal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u389	Thank you. Mr. Bukouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u390	Of course, Mr President, the New Democracy over time does not demand democratic legitimacy only from the Greek people and from any other political power and certainly does not apologise for irresponsible accusations. The group, which has contributed as much as any other to the smooth democratic transition, the fact that today it is represented by a democratically elected government, has the right to legislate and decide and, of course, to seek respect for what it decides in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u391	And beat!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u392	I repeat, a democratically elected government. I would say that it is no use in tensions while the Greek people have other priorities and other kinds of struggles literally, when faced with this unprecedented pandemic, it is impossible to assist efforts that incorporate a provision in a purely healthal direction, as much as if some were trying to change its content and to incorporate this provision into a strategy, if you would like, political planning or temporary party benefits. It is good when the Greek people give the battle, such tensions are avoided. After all, we are all judged by the Greek people. And not just once in four years. We are judged on a daily basis and forming the final view of the Greek people and feeding every political force where it decides. That's the only judge. However, the right of a democratically elected government cannot be called into question, with a strong parliamentary majority, to decide, plan, and implement measures necessary to deal with an unprecedented enemy, such as the COVID pandemic -19. I would not like to go any further, but to say that we consider the relationships to be totally inappropriate and untimely in relation to other times that have nothing to do with today's reality. After all, those who fought at the Polytechnics School did not fight against either laws or democratically elected governments. If this is questioned today, let us make it quite clear. I will come to the bill in the hope that the inappropriate tensions will not be exploited or, if you like, political planning. I would therefore say that today's bill, which, by our rapporteur, Mr Ceridis, Minister, has been sufficiently developed in all five parts, regulates important things on the market and that is why the Ministry of Development has to do. I would say, however, that at this juncture of the pandemic, Minister, the amendments you have accepted from all the ministries are the contents of another special bill to deal with the pandemic. That's what it is. And here is the quinteenth of the amendments and amendments to meet emergencies. That's what the Minister of Health's amendment does. Now all fight forces fall, private doctors in public health structures, retired IKA doctors, distractions of nursing personnel, fast supplies, because now it's the critical battle, now the numbers and data are saying it's the critical battle. This amendment by the Ministry of Health therefore comes to strengthen medical staff in public structures to successfully fight the pandemic that we are sure to achieve. The amendment by the Ministry of Development, Mr Minister, which you are bringing in order to limit, to ban, as a result of lockdown and the closure of shops from certain open shops and chains, is of major importance. It is not if you want a price policy, it is not a policy that is against the liberal ideals, it is a policy that comes up with an extraordinary situation, because unfortunately there are also the bad market players, and you are right to say that 'the profit margin you had on 1 September, this will now also have on basic food products and on health, antiseptics and all that have a great demand at this time'. In order to give you a size class, Minister, if something like this had happened at the time when we had changed the currency, namely if there were such a provision or a ministerial decision that would say 'until the Greek people get used to the new currency, your profit margin would be what was in the last six months or you would have a chance to increase your profit by 5%', we would not have reached those phenomena of rounded prices which led to a wave of price increases and completely reversed the consumer prices that existed until then. That is what you are doing today with the amendment, and that is why I consider it to be of major importance. In the exceptional circumstances, the State must take emergency measures. There can be no new enemies and extraordinary circumstances facing them with the old tools. Old tools don't work in such cases. Also, the Ministry of Finance's amendment to reduce rents, the suspension of payment of cheques, the payments of hotels operated as hotels in COVID in the previous tourist season are very useful. So is the amendment by the Ministry of Infrastructure concerning Thessaly, a Thessaly, Mr Minister, who was brutally hit by "Janus", a Thessaly in which damages to the citizens' assets were immediately paid, with the unprecedented compensation of agricultural production. Our producers have never been paid, as is the case today in Thessaly, Karditsa, Larissa and Magnesia, compensation within two months. It's just never happened! It's happening now! This amendment by the Ministry of Infrastructure also comes in order to correct them properly, to repair and build new public infrastructure where they collapsed, by way of derogation from the Law 4412 which leads to malfunctions, which leads to great delays. The wounds heal. And I am sure that they will heal both in Crete and Samos and in all areas, which have been hit by extreme weather. I have developed - and this is how I close, Mr President - four amendments which come under this bill, which really show that the government is working by assessing the data and the daily changes to deal with the pandemic, but also everything that has happened lately. There's an immediate reaction. I told you with Thessaly earlier and private property compensation and production compensation that has been given faster than when. Emergency measures are also being taken, first and foremost with private doctors coming to public structures, with the return of retired doctors who will help their colleagues who are currently fighting the critical battle. In other words, all the issues are being dealt with and you can be sure, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that this government will deal with any problem arising from it, because it is a government of battle and the result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u393	Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u394	Should Mr. Kegeroglu precede?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u395	One question Mr. Kegeroglu wants to ask, he's going to make it at the end. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u396	Thank you very much, Mr President. Our many years of friendship and acquaintance do not allow the tensions that have taken place, and that is why I must apologise. I want a minute, I won't abuse the President's kindness. Minister, I find it incomprehensible that as far as the amendment is concerned. tabling the Change Movement, which calls for the simulation of the relief, support, moral support to the affected Crete – Heraklion, Rethymno, Lassithi – so that it can be used as a pilot for any possible future disaster, firstly, a Minister came to explain to us why he does not accept it and secondly, that there is no sensitivity from this government to such a burning issue that needs to be promptly addressed to give a convincing answer. Mr Georgiadis told us that 'It is not my responsibility, I cannot answer you and I do not accept it' and the Minister of Finance to whom the Minister of Development referred us - now you 'do you hear it' on behalf of others - never came, Mr Besiropoulos came along, spoke out and was not even mentioned in the amendment. Mr Kegeroglou, who is the first signatories and has had the sensitivity and the initiative for this self-evident legislative provision, which I am sure Mr Mamoulakis, Mr Syntrakis, Mr Logiadis and all the MPs of Heraklion, if they could, would also sign it, because they certainly sign it both morally and politically. So the government must give a convincing answer why we, as a Change Movement, remember, Minister, had passed the relief provisions from the 'January' and what are we asking for? Justice for the inhabitants of Crete who have suffered these disasters. You respond with silence, respond with your absence today, eight hours at this meeting and you really leave a lot of questions and a great complaint to those who have no electricity today, have no way, probably have no water. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u397	Mr Mamulakis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u398	Thank you, Mr President. I felt it necessary to have a brief second reading so that I could cover matters relating to the amendments tabled, forwards and deadlines. I think our parliamentary representative, Mr Haritsis, has raised the issues concerning the Ministry of Development, but there are some other issues relating to amendments to which we must have a position. After all, we owe it. First of all, I am starting with the issues of the accelerated Ministry of Culture and Sport, with three distinct amendments. In fact, they are issues which are about athletes and which are generally agreed on. However, there are two - three issues that need to be mentioned in the public sphere. First of all, the structural uncertainty and the improperness of the government of Mr Mitsotakis and, in particular, the Minister responsible, since seventeen months have elapsed and nothing has happened in handling - I am not talking about you, Minister, is not your responsibility, but I have to make it clear - because issues have been raised in the areas of antiquities and in fact the budgets of the current years, so that the unions, the whole of the country's sports clubs, can be brought to a standstill, that is to say, in procedures for the election of organs. I think that this is essentially the future of the unions themselves and we are hitting the alarm at once, because the Minister will be forced to come again, soon with a new amendment - this is the epitome of poor legislature - to cover a time that is not covered by the law at this time. I do not want to go any further into the issues relating to sport, although I have told you that it relates to the documentation of the Ministry of Finance's amendment. I prejudge that we shall vote'residents' on account of Article 9, on pharmaceutical expenditure and on the understanding of the conditions in the country and not just the particular circumstances in general, and I would say this. With regard to the closure, Mr President, in the logic of consensus, composition, but also of real issues relating to public security, as well as the restoration of areas affected by damage caused by criminal change or the climate crisis, which we have all accepted to be a sign of the times, I believe that the state must finally see a region which has enormous problems in the last few days of bad weather and is no other than the one Mr Katrinis mentioned earlier. After all, we have been placed in the public speech and with parliamentary references and other moves in the public sphere to highlight the issue. Finally, the state must understand that it must do its utmost for all regions of the country affected. There can be no subjection and one-sidedness in an area that is dubious your readiness and response to Carditsa. I'm talking about Karditsa. Otherwise the results in Samos, New Heraklion. However, there is nothing for the old, Mr President, Mr Constantinople. Finally, I would like to conclude by pointing out that the vote is at the bottom of the way - I believe that a number of questions relating to the amendments have been put to the vote. From that point on, we are looking forward to the vote. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u399	Before I give you the floor, Mr Kegeroglou wants to say the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u400	It is not practically possible, but very soon, Mr President. But Michael Katrin said so. The government must give us an answer, because the amendment makes it easier for it to apply immediately what was implemented in Thessaly. It's nothing more. It is exactly what has been done in Thessaly and there must be a justification. What do we predict? In addition to the provisions of Article 1 to 8 of the relevant law and the joint Ministerial Decisions adopted automatically apply to the specific municipalities of Crete and thus the support will be without the delay that has materialised in Thessaly until these decisions are adopted and until the law is passed. We're making time. Finally, Amendment No 559 concerning the disasters by 'January' brought about a legislative improvement by Mr Karamanlis, which is not an improvement, but a deterioration. What's he saying? That there is no need for the opinion of the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority. No, Mr. President. If he wants to shorten the procedures, let him say that the opinion of the independent authority is given within two days or two hours, but that the independent authority is abolished with a paper by Mr Karamanlis, as a legislative improvement, we are not going to accept and this House should not accept. Mr President, this is your issue too. Mr Karamanlis cannot dismantle an independent authority with legislative improvement. It can't be done!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u401	As you can see, we're still voting for them. Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Catherides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u402	I shall be very brief, Mr President, because it has been a long debate this morning. I think we must confess that we had a substantial high-level debate, which had started since last week, and that was what all of the representatives of counter-population did for the bill, a little more intense today for the amendments. In any case, it was productive - there is no doubt - and it was carried out in a high-quality parliamentary climate. However, I must make two final remarks. The first concerns intervention by a number of colleagues from the teleconferencing conference, who I fear are confusing the teleconferencing conference with a video window. Vaccines and planters are coming, without having heard anything from the previous debate and without having read any of the legislation under discussion, saying a poem like saying it on television, without interruption, is afflicting parliamentary debate and parliamentary debate and all of us here, who are patiently suffering them and going further, without any contact with the rest of the parliamentary reality and what has been carried out before and after them. That's the first thing I can't resist the temptation to do. The second is this. I did not want to comment, I made a speech on the polytechnic anniversary this morning. I am, however, forced, following on from what our parliamentary representative has said, to address the representative of the Communist Party and to tell him the simple thing: he represents a historic party, the most historic party in a lifetime that counts a lifetime of 100 years. I think that at the very least they should preserve the seriousness and history of this party and not lead to this humiliation that we have seen today, a revolutionary activism that is contrary not only to the vast majority of Greek citizens, but also to common sense. They are not worth the story of the JRC, either the make news or the circulation of photographs from other countries to show, supposedly, the authoritarianism of Mr Chrysochoidis and the government. All this pressured Greek people in the pandemic conditions go over it from one point to the next and grieves or laughs. I would really like to draw attention to the representatives of the JRC, if anything, if they do not respect the Greek people, to respect at least their history? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u403	Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u404	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a historic day, a day of great value and importance for our democracy. Today we celebrate the insurrection of the Polytechnic School, an uprising that basically marked all the power of the Greek people to drive off the junta, an uprising that young and new students had the courage to find themselves there, to raise their voices against a repressive regime and with them to find other Greeks and other Greeks. But it wasn't just them. There were other young people and young people who could not be found there or other young people who could not be there. And there were many more older in Greece that supported this race and could not be found there. So this is the fight of all Greeks. And if we look for these polytechnic fighters today we will find them in all the democratic parties in Parliament. It is therefore our fight against regimes. It is the fight of young people who have decided to give the present. And today, we are in a situation where other young people and young people give us the presence and give us the presence in another battle, in another war, in a war with an invisible enemy. And so they are either called doctors or called nurses, nurses, either called cleaners or called EMAK members, are also Greeks and Greeks who give the presence with courage, as happened many times the history of this nation, where Greeks and Greeks gave it to us in historical times. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the moments of the nation that is in difficulty unite us. And the Polytechnic fighters who gave us the opportunity to speak here today, what they would require is to create and give the right to a free view of opinion, of opinion, within this temple of democracy. So we're in front of a pandemic. This pandemic is in its second wave and we have an obligation to respect human health, life in every way. It is a matter of concern and obligation for the state to provide and have all these tools and, above all, the human potential to support these issues of health, which seem to be on track at the moment. So that is our duty and our concern must be extended to all the activities of this state. And the legislation that comes here serves, serves the needs of the people with each party's opinion, and at the end of the day, expressing its views on this democratic right of the majority. In recent years, therefore, and particularly in this crisis, there has been an upturn in e-commerce. Consumers, and within the first lockdown, and then because they have acquired an intimacy with these measures, in the way they are ordered from e-commerce, have adhered to it and this has clearly affected trade in the natural stores. And does the state have to see this? Clearly it has an obligation on the state to see this issue that we have a move between natural stores and e-commerce. So what is coming today is the harmonisation, if you want, of Regulation 1150 of 2019 on precisely these rules, the rules of e-commerce. So these outlines, on line in translation, platforms and business users, i.e. business to platform, are set to make it clear that this means business users, who have a cooperation or a contract with a platform. Therefore, the regulation covers a large part of the digital economy by substantially affecting the up-to-date platforms for electronic commerce providers, software applications stores, social media and clearly search engines. But the aim of the regulation is to address the unfair practices of platforms to traders and business users. And the basic unfair practice is that of unnecessarily changing online terms and conditions. The purpose of this Regulation is also to respect the transparent classification, the so-called raking, the establishment of internal mechanisms for handling complaints, and the possibility of representative organisations and associations representing business users judicially. Since its adoption in July 2020, Regulation 2019/1150 has been put into effect directly in Greek legislation, however, additional measures are needed to implement the Regulation, which are taken by the proposed draft law. What we are seeking is a clear framework in which the terms and conditions for the provision of benefits are drawn up. We therefore choose within this institutional framework to shield the users of these services. The proposed arrangements, to put them in three pillars, are: The possibility of creating collective treatment by associations of business users, first pillar. Secondly, the establishment and keeping of associations in the DIAMEA. We will also talk about the DIAMEA, because a number of Members have also been mentioned here. And then the supervision of implementation and the imposition of sanctions by the DIAMEA. As far as the first pillar is concerned, then, we stress that we are giving for the first time a right which did not exist in this area. We are increasing the right to associations and public bodies and to conduct collective actions against these unfair practices and we are giving the opportunity to lodge interim measures on the infringements of the regulation. So far, collective actions have been filed by consumer associations. Moreover, under the proposed regulation, collective action for infringement of the Regulation may also be exercised by associations of business users or public bodies. By establishing collective action, therefore, the power of these associations to counter unfair commercial practices is being exercised. There are now no restrictions on the right to trade, which were usually the cost of recourse by a single company or the fear, if you like, of retaliation from a business colossus. The second pillar provides for the creation of a register, which will include associations of business users and public bodies. Therefore, the DIAMEA will keep a record in its unit of all these associations. Registration in the register is a presumption of the legal capacity of that body to exercise the relevant collective action. The third pillar focuses on the system of supervision and implementation of the new rules. We are therefore strengthening the supervisory and audit role of the IMIME in respect of compliance of benefits, investigation of complaints and the imposition of sanctions, making the competent authority implementing the regulation. An integrated supervisory mechanism shall be set up by transparent procedures that will make use of and evaluate the relevant information and requests. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] The system of enforcement is now modern as it integrates current practices that are applied at European and international level. Therefore, compliance measures are initiated by a recommendation and a number of criteria are taken into account for the submission of a fine: The gravity of the infringement, a previous history of compliance, other conformity actions taken by the provider, which are taken into account. And because it has also been mentioned about fines, yes, fines start from EUR 1,500 to EUR 2 000 000, and I will refer to that in response. In the second part of the bill, we regulate the organisation, staffing, and the up-to-date responsibilities of the EMEA regarding strengthening its efficiency and effectiveness. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] You'll give me some time, Mr. President. The DEME will be staffed by auditors, who will have the status of a special interrogator and only in this way can they submit - if you like - the elements and features in courtrooms, by giving greater legitimacy to the audit work and additional institutional validity of the entire supervisory process. We therefore want - and this is important at this stage - to achieve better coordination and cooperation between the various services - because this is what the IMF is doing, better coordinates all the services involved in the control field - so that we can rationalise the operation of the control mechanisms and combat its overlap. We are strengthening the function of mixed scales. Clearly, our intention is to house the supervisory system, to stop fragmented control mechanisms. In Part III we are attempting to strengthen the financial self-sufficiency and management of the Competition Committee. A further financing of the Competition Committee is therefore set up to complete its revenue. This alone gives the strength and support that the Competition Committee must have to operate completely independently. In Part IV of the bill, we see to it that economic activity is strengthened in small areas. We allow small village and small town businesses to operate on Sundays of the year, thus facilitating the unfettered disposal of goods and creating jobs. And because you mentioned - Mr Katrinis, another gentleman, I think Mr Loverdos - on the effectiveness of the EMEA, I would like to tell you that the coordinating body was in precedent. During its start-up, it was clearly suboptimal. During SYRIZA governance it started operating. However, we will see in statistics that controls from 2019 to July 2020 compared to the previous year are about 500% to 600% over. With the creation of the EMEA now, which we have a much more powerful instrument and much more efficiently, I just want to say to you that by comparing even two periods, which are from July to November 2019 and from July 2020 to November 2020, we also have an increase of 138% in controls. In other words, with the vote and the creation of the EMEA, we have a multiplier function of the audit mechanism. I must also tell you that this interdepartmental body has also done thousands of COVID-19-related checks. Therefore, if you want to check and because a limit has been set - which, for Mr Katrin, is considered acceptable - of the two hundred thousand checks, I would like to say to you that within a short period of time, namely five months, the DIAMEA has carried out some forty thousand checks. So you see that this objective and its support are in the right direction. It's a public institution. It's not a private instrument. Nor did his composition fundamentally change nor did he change the way his commander is appointed. We therefore have an instrument that is a public body, with workers from the public sector and has a very good function. As far as the subject of the amendment is concerned, I think that we have been given an interpretation of what we are doing with the amendment. Clearly the profit rate for the first time is legislated in Greek reality and the control of the profit rate in the middle of the crisis. Let me tell you that it worked amazingly in March, which we clearly had a great demand on the issue of priority items. But with this control mechanism - you will remember that there were whims at the time - we went in, we checked the invoices and we imposed a lot of fines. So he braked any growth trend there was in - say it - partial atrocities by some and fines were imposed. I would remind you that this has also happened to companies selling fuels across Greece. So we had such facts. Therefore, this is really the first application of such a law that has worked very well. On the subject of the process of submission of strategic investments, I analysed it. It is purely procedural: it is sent to the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology and it submits its opinion, precisely to make sure that we are within the discharge map 651, so that we do not have any problem. I would like to reply to issues raised by SYRIZA, particularly by Mr Haritsis, concerning the harmonisation of the Agency. Clearly it's a dynamically evolving instrument. We will see it before us that it takes responsibility. And that responsibility, because it's just in his DNA, it's a matter of competence it can function. It couldn't work anywhere else, I tell you. I would like to say to Mr Mamulakis that the intervention of this party and his ministers to the independent authorities is outside DNA. Therefore, away from us any suggestion of intervention to the Competition Committee. I've answered Mr. Catarini. I will return to Mr. Haritsis again and say that this money, or exactly as the government's programmes and communications are running, is because we are moving within the financial area, precisely so that we can borrow at lower rates. It seems that this confidence in the Greek Government with the fifteen-year and ten-year bonds. This is important, the image shown by our home country abroad and the confidence that is mentioned and recorded - if you like - in international homes. We had also recently upgraded a very difficult house, which is the house 'MODY'S'. What can I say about the point raised by Mr Villardos that the Minister is absent? You know very well that the Minister has a great desire to always be here. It was found in all the committees. He didn't miss it at all. He had to follow the Prime Minister on a very important trip to the United Arab Emirates. Let me refer to Mr Apostleu. The answer was given by Mr Karamanlis. On Mr Famello's point of consideration for the masquerading of masks, I would like to tell you that we have not taken any account of the masks again. Because when we were talking about the market going to work and fall, it was a shocking downward course of these masks, precisely because production was born here. France had priced it at 0.90 minutes, when the masks fell and I speak about April, it is not a matter now. The masks are Greek by a large percentage. So, there was no question of putting in consideration. Well, we shouldn't have done that properly. I conclude by saying that, ladies and gentlemen, at the very first moment, we have set the bar high, so that we can be worthy of the confidence of the Greek people. We are constantly working to create a competitive business climate. We are clearly in the middle of the crisis. Clearly this crisis will end. The pandemic will be over. With very fast steps we want to return to the earlier situation and we want to achieve this acceleration of our economy which deserves the Greek people, precisely to find ourselves with more and better paid jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u405	A further measure implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1150 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the promotion of fair treatment and transparency for business users of online brokering services (L 186), arrangements for the Interservice Market Control Unit, the Competition Committee, the functioning of the market and other provisions is hereby declared to be concluded. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, twenty-one articles, eight amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check or revise it by the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u406	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u407	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u408	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Absolute measures for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2019/1150 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the promotion of fair treatment and transparency for business users of online brokering services (L 186), arrangements for the Interservice Market Control Unit, the Competition Committee, the functioning of the market and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u409	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u410	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-17-S1-commons.u411	With the consent of this House at 19.47' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 18 November 2020 at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
