ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the agenda, I have the honour of announcing the following to the House: The Ministers of Culture and Sport, Economic, Foreign and State, tabled a draft law on 3-7-2020: "Following the Film Co-production Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Israel". The Ministers of Culture and Sports, Finance, Foreign and State, tabled a draft law on 3-7-2020: "Following the Agreement on the Development of Film Symphony between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the State Press, Publications, Radio, Film and Television of the People's Republic of China". They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In a letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that on Monday 6 July 2020 the current questions to be discussed are as follows: Question No 856/26-6-2020 will be answered by the Minister of Tourism, Mr Theocharis Theocharis. Question No 852/24-6-2020 and Question No 6005/286/27-4-2020 - Question under Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure will be answered by Mr Apostolos Vésiropoulos. Questions Nos 851/24-6-2020, 866/29-6-2020 and 878/29-6-2020 on topical and urgent questions and Question No 4991/17-3-2020 - Question No 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure will be answered by the Secretary of State for Health Mr. Question No 859/26-6-2020 will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Interior, Mr Theodoros Livanios. First we will discuss the third question by number 852/24-6-2020 from the Deputy of Serres of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boubas to the Minister of Finance, on "Reduction of VAT below 10% in Neurokopi Drama, in the Municipality of Sintic and in the respective outermost regions near Bulgaria, Skopje, Turkey". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vésiropoulos. Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it's a burning matter. There is a national bleeding mainly in the remote areas which are adjacent to and bordering Albania, Skopje, Bulgaria and Turkey. Indeed, studies and many chambers of commerce speak of very pitiful numbers, as we have unfair competition, especially in fuel. For example, in 2013 the money lost monthly by Kilkis Prefecture was about 13m euros, i.e. about 6.5m euros for fuel, 6.7m euros for other consumer goods. Today, it is embarrassing - let me have the word - to let the Greeks go to the nearest casino in Skopje, which is of Turkish interest and to ban the Serbs from coming because of the coronary in Greece. It's another parameter. The question is what we are doing, because this bleeding is also becoming thousands of jobs lost. And I'm saying that why? A thousand five hundred businesses have been in Bulgaria in recent years. Indeed, it is the third or fourth in the series of trade partners, because the investments there are EUR 5 billion a year. In Skopje, Greek companies are the second trading partner of Skopje with investments of more than EUR 1 billion, and even assisting the gross domestic product of this country's two million inhabitants, which is about EUR 10 billion. So you realise that in recent years, twenty-five thousand jobs have been created by Greek businesses in Skopje, while fifty-three thousand jobs have been created in Bulgaria by Greek businesses. Now, one could say that we have a large currency from Bulgaria's side to Greece. It's not like that. The figures say that in Greece around three hundred and fifty thousand Bulgarians come every year. But also the Greeks who go to Bulgaria are about one million and fifty - three thousand. The proposal of the Greek Solution, which we have been calling for years, is that special areas should be established in order to keep the population in these remote areas. The studies speak of between EUR 500 and 600 million lost annually by Greece as far as fuel is concerned and not just because we have the other consumer goods, and I get the bleeding of casinos out. From there on, we have bleeding with the Greek businesses, where unfortunately what the praisers and economists say is that the products we import from Bulgaria are produced by Greek businesses. It's a form of oxymomile, it's a tragic irony. The Greek companies, namely, in Bulgaria are about six hundred and in a geographical breakdown where we have five thousand nine hundred Greek businesses in Sofia, about seven thousand in the Blagoevgrad area and imagine that in Sadaski, next to the county from which I come, Serres, there are a thousand nine hundred Greek businesses. In fact, many enterprises are in introductory companies,'stamps', companies only for the stamp. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We are not satisfied with the question and the question, because you have invoked Articles 96 and 98 of the Community directive, but there are special conditions here. In Europe, in the vicinity of Belgium and the Netherlands, the standard of living and the tax system are about the same. The same happens in the Pyrenees, if you like, Spain - France or Spain - Portugal. We are a particular case in the Balkans, as we are adhering to three states which are non-European Union countries with a great disparity in taxation and living standards.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u3	Finish, Mr. Comrade, please. The rest of you will tell your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u4	I shall conclude, Mr President. But Bulgaria also has a very low rate of taxation that reaches 10%, apart from the large facilities made for the register. So do you intend to make this brave and nationally important decision in order not to bleed Greece towards Skopje, Albania, Turkey and Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u5	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I understand the incentive to strengthen the local economy for the remote regions of the country. But you should know that there is a specific institutional framework for VAT. The VAT Code, namely Law 2859/2000, is an incorporation within our own law of Council Directive 2006/112/EU. This directive has as a reference the application of VAT by the Member States of the European Union. Its implementation is compulsory for all countries. Directive 92/77/EEC allowed our country to reduce by 30% VAT rates, which still exists under the provisions of Article 120 of the VAT Directive. However, I must tell you that this directive only recognised this possibility in certain areas of island Greece. In other words, there was no provision to be included in it and regions of mainland Greece. From there on, everyone knows that despite the pressures of the institutions, the governments by 2015 had not yielded to the requirement of abolishing the reduced VAT rates on the islands. However, this was done by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and was the result of the disastrous negotiation of the first half of 2015, which led the country to a step forward before leaving the Eurozone and the European family, of course, beyond a new, inappropriate and painful memorandum signed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. What you need to understand is that we are committed to the European Union's institutional framework for VAT, namely Directive 2006/112/EU, according to which the application of reduced rates of VAT relates to specific goods and services. This does not mean, however, that our Government is not attempting to reduce VAT charges. We have adopted VAT reduction measures for specific products and services, which have already been implemented. However, there has been a broad debate for two years at European Union level to amend the Directive on VAT rates. In this context, we hope that we will be able to make a genuine negotiation and to raise issues of national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Buba, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, except for a name, unfortunately in Skopje, we're also giving our money. And there's enough money. We're talking about several investments. The point is, the Sintic, the Drama Neuroscope and Kilkis are suffering. I want you to pay attention now. There's a study - I'll operate on it - made by the President of the Kilkis Chamber. For the Chambers, they must be taken into account in addition to their advisory and advisory nature. The cost of this study paid for by Kilkis Chamber of Commerce and Industry. It speaks of two zones within a 15 km radius and 30 km lower fuel than the Skopje border, and in fact, of a subsystem of the HFFASIS system, to become a record of those who receive a discount on fuel inputs and can be checked at any time and at any time. So this study was carried out by Mr. Tonicidis in 2012 to the then Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy, Antonis Samaras. In fact, Mr Samaras considered that this study was an innovative and innovative idea and called on Mr Mitarakis, until then State Secretary for Development. But the responsibility is also to SYRIZA, of course, because in 2015 this study was distributed to all members of the SYRIZA government. Nothing happened. In fact, the promise was that it would be costed by the Kilkis Chamber and adopted by the government. This study therefore speaks in detail about how the two bands can become fifteen and thirty kilometers from Skopje with cheaper fuels. Because, as I told you, the developmental orbit in Kilkis and the Sintic region and the Neuroscope of Drama has been taken away. Unfortunately, many crafts have gone away with the blessings of the European Union over the years, with a restructuring of the Balkan peninsula, taking money as well. Let's go to these islands you said. I am aware of the directive, and I have studied quite well what is happening in the European Union and the islands of Scotland and the islands of Spain. Take note, however, that study, Minister, is based on an Italian study. So in 2011, what did the Italians do? In the Trieste region there was bleeding to Slovenia and Austria, in the autonomous regione of Italy Friuli-Venezia-Giulia. There, then, were two areas in which the Italians were fifteen and thirty miles [15 km] and the bleeding was immediately stopped by the Italians, who did not fill the reservoirs. The question is: is Italy not a member of the European Union? It is. How, then, did the Italians succeed? That is why I say that you must all help, there must be a government synergy with this effort, because the Trieste region has been characterised precisely by the same problem that we today have in Sinti, Drama, Kilkis and other remote regions. I would therefore like you to look carefully at this study by which Mr Samaras was excited, to study it, to go to the Italian model, because the evidence quoted here by the Kilkis Chamber of Deputies mentions all the regions of Italy, a large state, a strong economy, despite the problems of large productive tissues that have achieved this. So why should the Italians be localists of a national nature and we should not do anything to prevent all this bleeding to Skopje, Bulgaria and the neighbouring countries, on the basis of this Italian study, but above all what Mr Samaras considered a smart and innovative proposal - but did the next SYRIZA government know it - not to be implemented? It is a good effort that you must finally do to keep the place in the remote areas, because we must go with an argument and with the Gross Domestic Product. At the moment, the Serres are in the last place, Kilkis, Drama is in the last positions and apart from the islands of the North Aegean and the rest of the islands, I think that people based on GDP, based on their living and economic level and profile, can and are entitled to this in order to have cheaper fuels. There is this study, which is a boogeyman, which is a driver, is a pilot, to study it carefully and at last, to do this effort, which is national in nature and which the place needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u9	The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Vessiropoulos, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u10	Mr Colleague, as I have told you, we are committed to the common European framework for VAT. Any derogation would constitute an infringement of European Community law. Our Government, however, has made contributions towards reducing VAT on specific products and services. I would remind you that recently, by decision of the Government, the transport sector now comes under the reduced VAT rate of 13%. The transport sector includes all types of transport of persons, namely land, sea and air. There was also a reduction in VAT on non-alcoholic beverages such as coffee and all the drinks served in the catering industry. All this, of course, also requires the individual responsibility of each professional to pass on this reduction to consumption. And any reduction or abolition of a tax burden is intended to strengthen the economy and especially the economy in remote areas. At the heart of our policy is the reduction of tax burdens when there is or is a financial area. From now on, as I told you, a debate has opened at European level on possible changes in the institutional framework of VAT, on the right of Member States to impose reduced rates of VAT on specific goods and services. All of this is subject to negotiation in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u11	And we thank the Minister. We move to the number 6005/286/27-4-2020 report - question and request for the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Harry Mamulakis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Conventions for the development and concession of regional airports and resulting obligations under the current conditions of the Krone epidemic". Mr. Mamulaki, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, with L.4389/2016 the contract of concession of fourteen regional airports was virtually ratified in our country with a counterparty of the "FRATORT". The aim was to exploit, modernise and generally, if you like, - seasonal scale - functional upgrade of airports. Of course, our country, like many other countries, has suffered this health crisis of the coronary pandemic. So we have one outcome, that of the obligations under the current conditions of the epidemic. It is therefore reasonable to have a reduction in the revenues of the operators. However, there are reports indicating that the regional airport management company, namely the ‘FRAPORT GREECE’, invoked failure to fulfil its obligations towards the State and the creditors and exerted severe pressure to put into effect exceptional measures, on the basis of the provisions of the concession. The government that came to the concession, as I mentioned earlier, had anticipated and regulated the issues that fall both in cases of force majeure and in the case of an adverse event. This actually also provides legal certainty in respect of compliance with contractual obligations and rights. Therefore, while we have these conditions and contracts at the table and the relevant provisions of the convention resulting from the Convention, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, the present Government has implemented a legislative arrangement under Article 6 of May 2020, the well-known legal instrument, ratified by Law No4690/2020, according to which: First, you suspended until six months the payment of the financial debts of the concessionaires provided for in the concessions at a low interest rate. Secondly, you stated that the suspension of payment would not result in any other effect on the concessionaire. Finally, you described this arrangement as an excellent one and stated that it does not bring about an amendment to the contract. It is clear that although you have stated that this provision does not substantially amend the Convention, Mr Minister, it is amended and based on the contract - and I am referring more specifically to Article 45 of Annex I - which regulates details in the event of adverse events. So I ask you, Minister - my question is based on three pillars - the following: First, did you receive an notice of an adverse event from the concessionaire of the fourteen regional airports? What is its content and what is the request of the concessionaire? Secondly, what steps have you taken to assess the amount of the discontent and therefore the fulfilment of the contractual obligations of the 'FRAPORT'? Thirdly, have you received a written request from the concessionaire to amend the loan contract signed in the context of project financing? What are the actions you have taken? Finally, by closing my question, I should like to remind you that we have formally asked for the copies of all your communication with this company to be analysed in detail all the spectators and unfavourable aspects of this contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u13	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I do not perhaps have to tell you that the air transport sector has been hit to the greatest extent by the pandemic. This is not only about airlines, but also about airlines that manage airports. Nor do I need to tell you how important this sector is for our tourism. In May alone, there was a decrease in the passenger traffic of Greek airports at 97.3%. We, behind every company operating in the country, see the workers, the people working there and who shouldn't lose their jobs. Honestly, I do not understand why you forsake us. For the contents of the legislative act at the beginning of May? Because the Government considered that there should be support measures in the field of airport management operations, as was the case for other sectors or undertakings and as would continue to be the case? In fact, the measures concerned facilitating the payment of financial debts to the GOI because I have to inform you that the concessionaire normally paid the public contribution. The debts to which the modulated arrangement relates shall be those to the HSE which are due and due in the year 2020 and the transfer of their repayment up to six months after that date shall be charged at an interest rate. Of course, this temporary facility does not in any way constitute an amendment to the concession agreement, and that, I imagine, is clear. As clear as it is, it does not constitute any kind of graceful arrangement. What we have done for all the companies affected, we have also done for the airport management companies. I find it hard to believe that some would like to do nothing, lead to a dead end and lose their jobs to hundreds of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, too, Mr. Minister. Mr. Mamulaki, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I don't think the physiognomy of the question was understood. Of course our question is not the company and its sanctions or its consequences in the event of an adverse change. Our basic question - there is the whole philosophy of Officerial Response - is the defence and armouring of the public interest, and that is what I am moving and returning to my denology. The deferred payment is indeed, as you have described, related to the debts incurred in the year of the adverse event. This was provided for in the loan contract and in the general agreement with this company, the concessionaire. In other words, during the year, which will suffer the damage, the Greek State will of course take care of the appropriate predictions and perception of the crisis and ensure that this effort is rescheduled. But here, what do we have? We have an amazing year in 2019, with excellent profits - the record of the decade in tourism, so this company has gained synergy profits from this process - and what is happening? It is done: Suspension of its obligations for 2019 and should have fulfilled its obligations by the end of February 2020. So what we do not understand, Mr Minister, is why this transfer exists. Here's the alert difference between our welfare and your own MDD. More specifically, the deadline - the Minister mentioned it earlier - expired in February 2020. It was preceded, in other words, by the pandemic and its effects on our country. Also, the debt had become due before the MIP of 10 May, three months earlier, if I am not mistaken. So, on the basis of all this, Minister, I ask the following two questions: First, on which criteria you have decided to suspend payment by the concessionaires and therefore, in essence, to socialise all their debts, especially since they relate to the concession last year. What did you receive in return and how did you regulate the operation of the rest of the airports, the interests, the Greek State and the Greek taxpayers? Secondly, did you consider a burden-sharing? Thirdly, given that there is a great potential for the crisis to last, do you intend to maintain and prolong the suspension of payment due by the concessionaire and for 2020 without any contradiction? Do you also intend to make compensation on the basis of the facts of protracted force majeure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Mamulaki. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u18	Colleague, you still don't want to understand the meaning. In reply to my reply, it follows that the six-month facility decided by the Government is to be made by an increase of half the percentage of the nominal interest rate in the last issue of interest rates of the Greek State increased by half a percentage point. So there's no money loss. The management company had requested public action since last March to support its operation and to facilitate its obligations as a result of the pandemic and the critical damage it caused to air transport.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u19	You said March?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u20	At the same time, I informed you that the ‘FRAPORT’ has fulfilled its obligations under the concession agreement for 2019. As regards airport modernisation and development fees, already from 30-4-2010 it has submitted to the public account revenues relating to that year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u21	This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to information and communication technology equipment and services of the ‘Migration and home affairs’ policy area.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u22	Indeed, the extension of the repayment of the company's debts to the GOI by a semester does not in any case constitute an amendment to the concession contract concerned. This is clearly and unequivocally stated in the sixth article of the Act of Legislation of 1 May. From there on, I hope that SYRIZA has done his self-criticism and approached a level of maturity that has been taught from what he used to say in the past by doing all the opposite. I would remind you that Mr Tsipras said on 15 January 2015: "We will defend the public character of regional airports, because the sale of each infrastructure is neither progress nor development. It's a return to feudalism. So enough with the tale of privatization. Is there anyone today who believes that this loot will bring growth to the place? Only profits for the few come from increasing the cost of services." Of course, he signed the concession that he said he would abolish and then on April 12, 2017 he said: "FRAPORT" sends a great message, a signal and a vote of confidence in the Greek economy." In fact, Mr. Tsipras described the investment that the company makes of EUR 1,234 billion. I make both Mr Tsipras' statements in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Veyropoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The task of granting the fourteen Greek regional airports is a major private investment. It is an excellent example of the support of the Greek economy by the private sector, as revenues are generated for the state and jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, too. We continue with the first under No 859/26-6-2020 topical question of the second cycle of MP B3' South Athens, the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theanos Fotou, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Abstract and scandalous awarding to private individuals by way of derogation from the applicable legislation, the creation and operation of municipal CSRs, by dividing the profits from the vouchers of the program "The Harmonization of Professional with Family Life". Here, Mrs. Fotio, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Secretary, a year before you won the election. Five days later, on July 12 last year, the results for free vouchers had come out in a hundred and fifty-five thousand children for nurseries and CIDS, twice as many children as you put in 2014-2015. Then, seventy-nine thousand vouchers. With us a hundred and fifty-five thousand vouchers. Then, 170,000, all money from the NSRF. Then the unemployed mothers are excluded. With us, 280,000, of which 220,000, 000 from the budget. If I remember correctly, Mr Secretary, on 12 July your Prime Minister congratulated you in front of the channels - you and Mr Theodoriko - because you put a hundred fifty-five thousand children free of charge for the infants and the CIDs. I hope you told him later in the ear that the children were put on by Alexis Tsipras. This year, July, you have not announced the vouchers' programme yet, and you should have announced it since June. And while we wait - and hundreds of thousands of families with us - for the notice to come out, it becomes a strange 'fabrik'. Municipalities in various regions of the country - Thessaloniki, Piraeus, Maroussi, Alimos - directly assign to the same private non-profit association "I have the power" to create and operate a CID on behalf of their municipalities, by way of derogation from the existing legislation. Because, as you know, the law gives the right to establish and operate CSRs and CSRs only in the municipalities themselves and legal entities governed by public law, as well as in municipal companies. Therefore, the legislation is clear and clear. Therefore, the specific awards already made are scandalous and derogating from existing legislation. But another paradox is happening. Municipalities in different regions of the country act exactly the same copy paste way, as if they have been ordered from a center. They all do the same unreasonable deeds, in exactly the same way. Firstly, I have the power - the same union everywhere! - the establishment and operation of municipal CDIs and, in fact, without any call for interest. Direct assignment. Secondly, they provide the union with school rooms and municipal facilities, for example KAPH. Thirdly, while CSR has not yet been granted authorisation to operate in the Association "I have the Force" to operate these sites, nor have the necessary adjustments made to the law, the Municipality of Piraeus and Amarousi through their websites have already called on the public to regularly register their children in the CSR of "I have the Force", using the vouchers. I'll submit the relevant document. With what vouchers, Secretary, when you haven't made any invitations? That is, until now, eleven non-existent JAPDs that will operate "I have the Power", while giving him space and money from vouchers, which they should normally receive from the municipalities themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u25	Mrs. Fotio, finish it up. The rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u26	I shall conclude, Mr President. So, I ask: has your Ministry been directed to the municipalities to resort to these opaque, scandalous and derogating from the existing legislation, the creation and operation of municipal CSRs, and what do you intend to do if you have not given this line? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u27	The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Interior, Theodoros Lebanon. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Starting with what you said, the calls for the vouches for the new year, for harmonisation, but also for the CDIs, will be made in a few days' time. I would remind you that this is the first time that you have considered the possibility of including mothers and civil servants, which you have not done. I would remind you that this is the first time that you have thrown down and increased the income criteria, which you have also not done. And I would remind you that it is a programme that this government has not only embraced, not only is it a continuation of a programme launched by the 2012 government, but it is a programme that we intend to expand, because it is a commitment of the Prime Minister himself to exhaust all possibilities so that every child can find its place at a child's station. In this respect, we are taking action - in connection with the Antonis Tritsis programme, but also with other financial instruments - so that new children and young nursery stations can be built from the municipalities so that they can be fully safe, but that we can also have new places for hospitalized children. Now, I could answer your question with a 'no' monologue. No, no such order has been given for two reasons. The first reason is that the Ministry of Interior and at least this political leadership does not interfere with the self-government of local government bodies. We respect self-government, respect the presumption of competence that it has and do not indicate them to do the alpha or beta. We give tools and define the legal framework. You mentioned in your question cases of municipality, the Municipality of Piraeus, if I am not mistaken, the Municipality of Alimos, the Municipality of Amarousios. In fact, relevant municipal council decisions have been taken which you have also mentioned and made available to you, but which, since the information I have received from the Decentralised Administration, have so far not been offended by anyone. It is therefore a right, on the basis of Article 227 of Law No.3852, to challenge anyone who has a legitimate interest and who considers that a municipal council decision is unfair. The Ministry of Interior, which is well or badly - in my opinion - does not control the actions of the municipalities, because it would be essentially arbitrary in matters which are not appropriate to its nature and which would violate the self-employed. That is why we are moving rapidly towards the creation of the independent OTA control service so that there is an independent supervisory body. It is also for this reason that we are moving directly towards the administration of these services with specialised lawyers, who will be recruited in accordance with the procedures of the AACC, in order for there to be genuinely independent legal control. I would remind you, in order to avoid any misunderstanding, that at the moment the heads of the seven decentralised administrations are the coordinators of decentralised administration, which this government has not placed on them, but the former government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u29	With an SAPA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u30	Yeah, I'm with S.H.I.E.L.D. I didn't say anything. I said what term of office was registered. In closing - and I will return to the dentistry - I can assure you that there is also the relevant answer from the Municipality of Piraeus, which I am presenting for the Minutes. For reasons of time, I won't read it all. I would like to point out that, in any case, anyone who has the right - and Mr Belavila's party to the Municipality of Piraeus - can also appeal to decentralised in order to request an annulled act, if it is considered to be non-legislative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mrs. Fotio has the floor for her denology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Secretary, if I understood correctly, you were fortified behind the self-government of local government, i.e. the municipalities. But you said at the same time that you are building this principle, which will control them. And in any case, if the municipalities make a mistake, to insult any citizen who does not get a voucher his child tomorrow and to fall down all the program of CPDs and nursery for a hundred and fifty-five thousand children, because you are supposedly pretending to have nothing to do with it. You don't understand, Mr. Undersecretary? So, let's talk about it. Do all these municipalities do the same thing? This year, CSR has not been issued a month later, because - he says - you will give some of the public parents. You're gonna be okay. Parents have been addressing nursery stations to keep places for their children since September, without any certainty they will join the program. Stations and CSRs cannot normally make reservations because you have already delayed the invitation to the program. How, then, are the municipalities, Mr. Undersecretary, since you are somewhere else and do not supervise anything on the basis of the self-employed, do they start registrations on nonexistent CIDs assigned to the "I have the Force", saying, in fact, that the participation of the children will be free, but through the specific voucher programme? Also, how do they call for CIDs to be registered unauthorized so far? What shapes of early in the morning are these? Is there a secret agreement with the regions, especially with Attica, that they will send them licences in summary procedures, so by way of derogation from the legislative framework for adjustments to the premises required and not even consider them? And as if not all of this were enough, the Municipality of Piraeus and the Municipality of Amarousios reduce the operating hours of the alleged eight municipal CIDAPs that will establish and operate "I have the Power" in four hours from eight hours until today. Can you hear me? In four hours, eight of it was the CID! In other words, the rentals, the employees of the subcontractor "I have the Power" will rotate at 50% of the time and the value of voucher, which covered eight hours of work each day, will be given for half the hours. This is a profitable business! Bravo! Same money for half an hour of service provided! The "I have the Power" will take the money, while the municipal CISSRs will operate twice as long as they do. That's amazing! I've never seen that before. Undersecretary - and I shall end, Mr President - when municipal CSRs and CSRs are established, municipalities are recruiting the appropriate skills of workers, whether in full or in part-time jobs, but always with respect for labour legislation. They cover EUR 180 for eight hours per day for children. Now the same money - which is state money - will be given for half-hours. And how are the staff hirings that the subcontractor will do when the license appears to be done in the clipboard and uncontrollable way? This whole package is a huge scandal. You underestimate our intelligence if you think that what is happening with "I have the Power" is an accidental event, that randomly all these municipalities give the "I have the Power" the vouchers. It's a shotgun scandal. It seems that where there is a voucher of any type, it also sticks a scandal with private bodies that break the situation, because the money here is too much. In 2019, 98 million was allocated for the CSFs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u33	But finish it up. You say that another time. Say what you're asking to get answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u34	I shall conclude, Mr President. So stop this scandal before the new "Scoil Elicikou" becomes. And I tell you that I searched the internet to find "I have the Power". I found - I'll testify to you - a Facebook page - nothing else - that likes 50 people. The information about what the union is doing is covering four lines. I'll testify, Minister. Don't tell us we didn't report this whole story after.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u35	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u36	Talking with such convenience about scandal troubles me. It concerns me not only in the light of those who have come out in the last few days, but I am concerned that you are accusing me of something that has been done over your days. Indicate: November 15, 2018. Deputy Minister of Labour Theanos Fotio. Decision...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u37	We know!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u38	You know it, but you don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u39	Don't interrupt! You haven't interrupted. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u40	So you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, please give me a moment later to say what I did.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u42	You don't deserve it. Another time you're going to ask a question again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u43	On personal grounds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u44	A decision is therefore taken by a municipal council which again gives this association the establishment of a CDI.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u45	Read it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u46	It therefore gives the decision to create a CFP.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u47	Read it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u48	And what did you do, as you blamed us? Did you break your hands? Did you react?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u49	Read it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u50	You'll hear them now. Wait a minute! I listened carefully, you'll hear them too!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u51	Mrs. Fotou, so you wanted when you were a minister to treat you, to interrupt? Please sit down and listen, as the Minister has heard you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u52	That's what they did to me. To read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u53	You'll testify and get the copy from the Minutes. Every colleague understands everything and everything. Please. Please. Minister, go on. Mrs. Fotio wanted to speak four minutes in the protology, five minutes in the denology, and she was not satisfied. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u54	It is therefore the decision of a municipal council on your days. Did you wash your hands? Did you react? Did you cancel it? What'd you do? Nothing! Decision to pay orders from the EBRD. I choose an accidental date, on 29 March 2019, where this club is again financed with EUR 4.957. The signature is the CEO designated by the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u55	Did he get 4,400 euros?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u56	For a month, it took so long. Because we have done the same research you have done and you have done it again: the municipalities are judged in the legality of the decisions they take, mainly by the public and not by the Ministry of the Interior. They are also judged by supervision, by the relevant audit bodies, not judged by the government, and fortunately they are not judged by the government, I say this again! I would remind you that the supervision and the independent supervisory service began to exist by Law.3852, amended in a direction with Law.4555, with "CLISTHENA", you have also passed many amendments, but you have not been able to implement them as well as so many other things, and we have already sent the Presidential Decree to the S.H.E. for processing. So this agency will do legal control, it will be completely independent of the government, it will be completely independent of the respective political leadership of the Ministry of Interior and you will soon see what it means to be lawful. I repeat, and I say this once again, that, as far as the municipalities and regions are concerned, legality is exercised by these bodies and not by the Ministry of the Interior and anyone who considers it to be affected or that a decision may well seek and seek annulment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Minister. Let me make an announcement...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u58	To deposit the paper in the Minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u59	When Mrs Fotou calms down, I would ask colleagues to listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u60	I'm not calming down!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u61	I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 ‘Prime Responsibility of Ministers’, as in force on 6 July 2020, a criminal case-file concerning the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection and Crisis Management Mr Nikolao Cardalia. We continue with the next cycle. The next questions will be answered by the State Secretary for Health Mr. K. Kontozamani. The second question under number 866/29-6-2020 will now be discussed in the first cycle of MP B3' South Athens Department of the Communist Party of Greece Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Health, on "No ninety workers of the "Agia Sophia" Children's Hospital" will be fired. Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this question was tabled before the end of the date of the working time contracts, which were for 30 June. A solution was given from the hospital administration - and I imagine your agreement - to extend the contracts until the end of September. The number of these workers is well known to be falling short of the needs, which are covered by the intensification of their work. Because of this severe subsidization, they are working unreservedly. It is a lot of the days and hours they have done in addition, as well as the 2019 and 2020 licences, due to them, because they cannot be missed from their work. The administration to solve this problem, intensification and a great shortage of workers, intends again to recruit workers from contractors for two to three months in order to give workers a day off. It is understood by each one that a great shortage of staff is lacking. Minister, from 30 April 2020 the notice for a hundred forty-four places in cleanliness and thirty-two in the focus is pending. It provides working hours for seven hours rather than eight hours. If this meant a reduction in working hours, without a reduction in their wages, it would be a significant development. However, because it is in the direction of generalization of tyres, it will have consequences for workers' wages and insurance. Apart from our opposition to this condition, the question arises as to how the three hours will be replaced daily. The hospital can only need cleanliness and focus all 24 hours. Despite the concern about a possible second wave of pandemics, the Government applies, like the previous ones, this strategy of recycling unemployment, to expand flexible labour relations to the detriment of permanent work with full rights. The thousands of gaps in public hospitals - we have said them many times, we have raised them - result in workers working in high-intensive and risk situations. Questions are specific. Do not let any of the ninety employees of the Children's Hospital, whose contracts we said were extended until the end of September. The staff of the hospital must also be added - those - who are successful - workers because there is a need, there is a great shortage of staff and, of course, they are normally working with full and stable work with eight hours rather than reduced working hours and reduced earnings. On these questions, Minister, we would like your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. The Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kathotis, workers under fixedterm private law shall conclude contracts of all kinds which have a specific duration and a fixed maturity. And since your party keeps making this mistake, I would like to correct you once again, that you are wrong to mention the term redundancies, in fact we have an end to the contracts which the workers themselves have accepted by signing this convention. So there is no reason to talk about redundancies and create impressions. Today it is Monday 6 July and the ninety employees of the Children's Hospital - you said so - are in place, having extended their contract by 30 September, firstly, due to the act of legislative content of 1 May 2020, which gives us this possibility and, secondly, the final results of the SAAP tender for the hospital from which eighty-eight cleaners will be hired and sixty-six staff of auxiliaries for 12 months. In addition, the hospital has undertaken the recruitment of ancillary staff in order to strengthen these tasks. That is the reality and no dismissal exists so far. The AACC competition, from which we await the final results of the successful ones and who will be recruited, meets the needs of the hospital as provided for in the notice. This means that, for the cleaning work provided for in the notice, it is sufficient for the relevant staff to be recruited, plus the additional ancillary staff already recruited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Katsotis has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u66	Minister, it is well known that these workers at the Children's Hospital are up to ten years of work in this. Isn't it fired when they don't have a job tomorrow? What is this end, as you say, of the fixed time? Is it a choice of employees to be for five months or six? For five years with five months and six months of contracts? Is that their choice? How, then, do you say it is in their knowledge? So it's their choice to work six months and then leave or the need for the hospital is for six months? So why doesn't the hospital choose an indefinite contract with full rights? So it's not dismissal for this worker? What is it? End? It is dismissal, Minister, and every fixed-term contract is dismissal, because it deprives each worker of the right to work. And it's not a solution to recycle unemployment, six months each, six months each. It is a solution for the worker to have the plate full of food in his home, who is of course deprived of it in these flexible forms of employment. You say that legislative acts give the right to make this extension of contracts by the end of September. Why not allow the hospital’s needs to be undetermined and to be added to those who have become the contest in order to fully meet the needs and not to take the day off, not take the 2019, 2020 permits and be forced to go to a contractor for two, three months so that they can take their day off from working intensification? Why should this not be a solution on the part of the government? We consider that these workers, as you say, do not meet the needs of contract workers at a time when you are now going to go to contractors to get their days off. So will it. It was a hundred forty employees. Many of them have left for a number of reasons. They couldn't withstand this intensification. And ninety. This is an issue that - if you like - concerns the Ministry that must ensure that the cleanliness is available to a Child Hospital, that focus is required and that it does not have tyre workers, six months a month, six months the other. It must have staff such as this that it will indeed be controlled and ensure what is required in a hospital. We therefore call on these workers to become an indefinite period of time, to ensure that the competition goes ahead immediately, that is to say, to get the rest of the workers, in order to ensure this operation of the Children's Hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katsotis, allow me once again to say that there is no dismissal. As far as the tender is concerned, the final ranking list with those successful for the posts is finally processed by the AACC. Of course, because you mentioned that these workers are in an unfavourable position compared to others, no one prevents a worker from taking part in a notice of permanent staff, because there are also such notices in order to ensure a permanent position in the Greek State. From there on, we have taken all the necessary steps to comply with the cleanliness conditions at the Children's Hospital, not only because it is pediatric. It occurs in all hospitals, either with fixed-term contracts or with the recruitment of ancillary staff. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u69	And we thank the Minister. Then the fourth question under number 851/24-6-2020 will be discussed in the first session of the H' Vice-President of Parliament and MP B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Destructive prolongation of the suspension of the operation of the Educational Harmonized Schools'. Mrs Sacorafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, protection measures against COVID -19 includes a ban on the teaching and use of lung organs. On the basis of this prohibition, the suspension of the operation of educational schools throughout the country shall be extended indefinitely and at least until 12 July 2020. Minister, I do not know whether there are any studies in this area. On the contrary, I am aware of an official publication on the website 'Medical Xpress', which refers to a study ordered by the Vienna Philharmonics, which shows that the transport of aerosols is harmless after eighty centimeters. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sophia Sakorafa, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Philharmonic schools, as you know, are municipalities or are mutually beneficial associations that provide high demand music education to thousands of students throughout the country. In particular, the philharmonic schools of the Ionian Islands and Western Greece have a heavy and significant historical and social role and based on their educational function they are the creators and expressors of the culture of local communities and are the pole of attraction to tourism. The ban therefore concerns philharmonic, dozens of philharmonic schools throughout the country and deprives culture of tens of thousands of people and their families, especially from the students of the Greek Philharmonics. So the suspension of the educational philharmonic schools over a period of at least three months is depriving thousands of new basic education and local communities of an important factor of social and economic development, because the reasoning of the ban, referring to intense expulsion, is scientifically and reasonably incomprehensible, since other activities with stronger physical activity are already allowed, because by the prolonged suspension of the operation of educational philharmonic schools there is a very great blow to their students and to the areas that sustain them through an area from which they are just waiting for their regeneration after the enthusiasm and restrictions due to the epidemic, I ask you, Minister, if you are prepared to review the question of the ban on teaching and use of lungs so that the educational philharmacology can be reopened as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Sacorafa, too. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Sakorafa, our goal all this time was not to prevent access not only to cultural activities in the world, but also to other activities. The aim was to protect public health. And as you are well aware, there is a plan for gradually lifting the restrictive measures imposed in the context of dealing with the coronary pandemic. All these measures taken were based on recommendations from the National Committee for the Protection of Public Health against Coronary Disease, taking into account the developments made, scientific data and assessing epidemiological data as well. Their removal is once again the responsibility of the National Committee for the Protection of Public Health and is accompanied by the adoption of specific directives and notifications to the relevant bodies for further action, and these bodies are responsible and responsible for monitoring compliance with these directives. In accordance with Article 15 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 4064/89 of 20 December 1989 laying down provisions for implementing Regulation (EEC) No 2052/89 as regards the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund are to be implemented in accordance with the provisions of Regulation (EEC) No 2052/88. 40381/27-6-20 Joint Ministerial Decision, the administrations of private enterprises and the above-mentioned dramatic art schools, higher-professional schools, schools of music, schools of Byzantine music, Preparatory Professional School of Arts Panormos Tinos, amateur dance schools and other educational structures of artistic education must take all appropriate measures to ensure the safe conduct of the courses and activities in general. These measures exclude musical and artistic education and secondary school. Furthermore, according to recommendations from the National Commission, specific requirements and prohibitions are laid down for the functioning of the above-mentioned structures of artistic education. The reopening of educational philharmonic schools is part of this context and I am sure that in any case, the reopening of the Philharmonic Schools will soon be achieved under absolute safety rules and in accordance with the recommendations of the National Committee for Health Protection against Coronary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u73	Here, Mrs Sacorafa, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like your tolerance for half a minute, maybe. Minister, I must say that I would expect you to do so today - sincerely, I am told - to do so specifically at the time when these philharmonic schools should begin their operation, on the basis of what you have just said, which is very respected. No one has any objections to that. That is why I asked you the question about music education through the philharmonic schools that operate throughout Greece and which are mainly for the Ionian Islands the most important component - I would say - of their culture. They are, in other words, a massive popular phenomenon that loves serious music, which turns into a popular estate. I am presenting to you in the Minutes the information notes that have been sent to me and I would like you to take very seriously into account the note I have left in relation to research, the study carried out by the Vienna Philharmonics - we are not talking about any philharmonic - which says that there is no problem, since after eighty-inch the virus is not transmitted in terms of the extinction of musicians. So I would say that these philharmonics have shown too great musicians - you know, after all, I am sure - and composers such as Lauragas, Peter Scarlatos, Cinjas, Lamplet, Nikolaos - Janis Metaxas, Samaras, Karrer, who supported them as archaeological. In other words, they are self-managed and cooperative educational institutions, the first with democratic statutes in Greece, which extend to three centuries, 19th, 20th and 21st. They are temples of culture with a hundred and four hundred musicians and students each, with their customs, other families playing bronze, other wooden and other percussions, three generations next to each other. These are cultural conquests that helped to develop the first political party in Greece that was not just English, French, Russian, but was the party of radicals who were fighting the social demand with national independence, the self-determination of the Istanbuls and the union with Greece. Minister, you have allowed to open restaurants, bars and gyms - I told you before - for concerts, conferences and activities that require more intense physical effort, closer contact and more intense exhale, without consulting the interested parties, and perhaps I could help. Do you know what's in danger of being destroyed? It is risky to destroy the Philharmonic of Corfu, which first played our National Anthem, a composition of the founder of Nicholas Haliopoulos Manzarou, as well as the great philharmonics who came from Zakynthos, Kefalonia and Corfu and played first publicly the Olympic Anthem of 1896, when our homeland had no worthy of musical ensembles, such as the Lixouri Philharmonic who did not interrupt its function nor the period of the hunger of the stagnant crisis, nor the civil war or the murderous earthquakes of 1953. Places are deserted, where each festival and anniversary are mystic and a high cultural meeting due to the repertoire of the philharmonics that participated. Mr President, Minister, for the first time in a century and a half the Etannesians will celebrate St. Spyridon, St. Geramis or Saint Dionysios without their music. They will honor massacres, Holocausts and executions of retaliation without their philharmonics. Hundreds of people lose their history and their culture, Minister. They lose their way of life and the special breeze they want to meet visitors from all over the world. Thousands of children lose the most important, perhaps, education they can receive in the lands that were born. You must review your decision, Minister. You must not let this uniqueness of the Istanbuls be destroyed, nor show that you face with reduced sensitivity the great popular elements that Philharmonic schools are all over the country. I'm sure you will not allow it personally. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u75	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Sacorafa, I am listening positively to what you say and are very important, because, you know, it really is about the history of our country. We all love our place, with our customs and traditions, our traditions. We all love music, culture, and we want the philharmonics to play. However, we want all this to be done taking into account the framework for the protection of public health. I told you in my protagonist that I believe that very soon we will be able to reopen educational philharmonic schools with absolute security rules so that we can all enjoy philharmonics - and not just - events that take place in the next few months in our country. I am listening to what you are saying, and I shall also convey your request, the debate which is taking place today, the relevant bodies and the committee. I hope very soon that we will have the result that we all want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, too. We move on to the third with number 878/29-6-2020 on the second question of the Corfu MP of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros - Christou Ayloniti, to the Minister of Health, on the subject of: "Agricultural doctors from the Diaponn Islands". Here, Mr Aylonite, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u78	Mr Minister, I thank Mrs Sakova publicly for asking this timely question. If you have noticed, in your office there is a personal question for me on the subject of philanthropics. I'm telling you about history, with the only difference that when we ask the question, time passes by until we get the written answer. However, I thank Mrs Sakorafa for her very topical and philharmonic question. Minister, I have put two questions, one question - I think - the Prime Minister of the Change Movement, infinite telephone contacts, I imagine that you have from your Member, the New Democracy MP, Mr Gikas, and I come today with a timely question on a very important issue, which is timeless. "I was young and old" in Corfu, dealing with local government, constantly dealing with the same subject, that is, the staffing of the medical offices of our three interdimensional islands. So you realise that we must at some point resolve the matter institutionally and permanently. You understand the geopolitical position of our three intersectional islands. You realize that this summer there are too many tourists visiting these islands. You understand and you know that in winter there are few old people left who are protecting our islands, who have a very large number of inhabitants, especially in the winter months, from Albania. This is not of any importance, but it is very important to show you the population situation of the intermodal islands. In 2016, the SYRIZA government adopted a law and in Article 8 determines what is going on with the cover of agricultural doctors, doctors - fanatics serving their term of office. Constantly, because of the end of the service of the ghost - doctor, or because of other reasons, such positions remain vacant and the problem of the Diaponding Islands is that their medical staff are not assigned to permanent staff. The main issue, therefore, which is raised by my question, is that you can answer me this simple question: can you, with this data that has not worked to date, like the institutional framework established some time ago by the SYRIZA Government, create a new legal framework, a new institutional framework, a bill, and come here and tell us that we need to motivate doctors to go there? You realize that a doctor, to go to the Ottomans, to Derikussa and Mathraki and stay five months a year there, wants motives, not only economics, but mainly scientific. We, as a SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, have a number of suggestions which I will put to you in my speech. So I ask you, and I ask you orally: What exactly do you intend to do, so that this unacceptable situation does not continue, which leads every time, after two or three months, to triumphs of your local MP, that a soldier has been appointed to cover a position on these three islands and, in any case, whether you intend to bring a legislative initiative in order to resolve the issue of the three Canary Islands?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u79	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Aylonite, first of all, because you referred to the number of questions and the length of time between the question and the answer, I note that I have repeatedly stated to this House that the volume of questions is enormous. The Ministry of Health, Mr President, has recently kept the sceptres in the questions. We are present at parliamentary scrutiny and, even late, we are responding to all the questions and we are trying to leave nothing unresolved. Mr Aylonite, and you, as a government, have made it possible for armed doctors during their term of office to exercise the obligation to serve as rural doctors. Well done, you did very well. But you have not solved the problem. The problem is not solved by the introduction of an incentive, nor by too many motives. We must all agree in this Chamber that all the parties, all the previous governments have tried to give a solution to this issue, which is complex and difficult. It is an institutional obligation for the state to ensure, in any case, the right to universal and equal access to the last end of the territory for every citizen. And the cases of islands, continental and barren remote areas are not an exception. Our goal and ours is to cover all these areas fully. It is true that many times this is not achieved to the absolute extent. And it is a given fact that all governments focus attention on the inhabitants of these remote regions. In fact, apart from the fact that they are vulnerable groups of the population, particularly those of the third age, there are problems throughout the year. We are all trying to cover shortcomings and gaps in health personnel, whether by proclaiming positions which often come out of barren, or by moving staff from the nearest structures capable of doing so. Unfortunately, I repeat, the result is not always desirable. Even the incentives that have been given, with what you have just said, do not give permanent solutions. And that's the reality. This is the situation, not only in the overseas islands, but also in the wilderness and remote regions in general. We have managed to declare the locations of doctors outdoors in time, cover the gaps with medical gunmen, move doctors from the nearest structures during the periods when there is no rural doctor. Here too, I should like to emphasise the excellent cooperation between the health and defence ministries. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Because you have referred to the measures that we intend to take and the initiatives, I would like to say that brave intervention is needed in order to provide permanent solutions. And I do not say it accidentally, because we are already working on incentives, proposals and solutions to deal with this big issue. I am committed before this House to a specific legislative initiative, on the basis of which the framework of the barren areas will be redefined, to revise the incentives given so that they become stronger, to attract more doctors and to define in a concrete way the mandatory coverage of the gaps whenever they arise. I think that through an integrated legislative initiative and a dialogue between all the parties - and your party recently announced some measures that have to do with the barren and remote regions - we will be able to reach a lasting solution to the issue, without timely solutions, to cover all these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Aylonite, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u82	Minister, it is important that the last thing you said, namely that you will proceed to a legislative initiative. I would like to point out to the National Representation that we remember the Corridor Islands - and I imagine other remote islands of the Aegean - when something happens. The world is listening to the word "Othens", not knowing exactly where it falls. But they hear it lately because of the Agreement between Greece and Italy in relation to the influence of the island of Othon at 72%. This area, I have to remind you, has been identified by our Parliament, as it has been voted on and agreements on the mining and extraction of hydrocarbons have been ratified. There, in this triangle, the three EOZs of Italy, Albania, Greece are converging. That is why I referred to the geopolitical nature and the national importance of the cross-cutting islands. In this sense, therefore, your legislative initiative is necessary. It is true that you have also gained the necessary experience and experience of the institutional framework that has been implemented so far, but that is not enough. I have seen that you have read the proposals of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. Allow me in the two minutes left to tell you what will happen, if there are economic incentives for doctors to understand the permanent position of doctors in these three islands and in the other islands, where they exist in our acronym Greece. For example, a special tax-free ancestor for qualified ERC doctors throughout the actual service, set at the amount of EUR 1,000. Also, the simulation with the Armed Forces officers, to know where they will stay, to be able to stay where they are going, to have housing and tax incentives, administrative incentives, such as the more rapid wage evolution after a seven-year service has elapsed in this post, and to allow these years to be calculated at a ‘2’ rate for graduation. But there are other things. Let me remind you, for example, that there are also scientific motives. For example, one who just finished the university has the ability to conduct a distance postgraduate or doctoral course with a cost draw from the hospital. Yes, I can tell you a lot more. This is all about two thousand places on the remote islands, in the outermost regions, and it is costly. In very simple terms, that means that there is the possibility and the prediction. We are talking about the sum of about EUR 50 million per year, so that there is really no point and it makes a fool of the role of MPs, but also of the local government, that is, every time a military doctor ends, we ask, we ask the relevant Minister or State Secretary to appoint another soldier or to happen something to this doctor and to have a maritime turbulence and to have an island with old permanent residents with no one to help them. And I'm bringing you the current example with COVID -19. Many tourists will come to the crossroads. So tell me, how will he feel health insurance from England on the beautiful island of Irequusa or on the amazing island of the Ottoons in Mathraki? So how will the tourist go when there's only one doctor there? And if a bathtub like yesterday occurs in Corfu that lasted many hours, or something else, there isn't a man? In that sense, therefore, I believe that, apart from the geopolitical importance of the Diapondent Islands, we must also face the human part of this history and protect our locusts before it is too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u83	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Aylonite, this question is not an option for political controversy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u85	I didn't mean to!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u86	I will take it as an attempt which will soon, as I said, result in an integrated legislative initiative in order to tackle the problem. I said that all previous governments have made efforts to address this issue. It is very important that there should be an integrated proposal, to which we will all agree together. I wish, therefore, that we all vote together in this Chamber on the proposal that we will bring for discussion and vote, because our aim is to meet the needs of people who, as I said, are mainly those of the third age who live in these areas and to ensure access to any health service they need and the last citizen in that country. So please keep in mind that very soon we will have the opportunity to present a comprehensive proposal to this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Minister. Now we move to the second with number 4991/17-2020 a question of the circle of petitions - questions by the MP Laconia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Definition of command and board at the General Hospital of Laconia". Here, Mr Arachovitis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Secretary-General, the question we are now debating has been tabled since 17 March 2020. Since then, we have highlighted the problem, which lies in the fact that Sparta Hospital since 2 January 2020 operates in practice without a board of directors and without a commander. The Director of Medical Service, Mr. Kalogerakos, replaced this post by 16 June. But, on 16 June, he also submitted his resignation, unable to serve another situation so many months. Of course, he deserves congratulations for the time that we have all spent the great wave of pandemic, which he put back without a board of directors, and they also deserve congratulations to medical staff and nursing staff, because they managed to operate in these conditions with pandemic in a hospital without - in essence - leadership. Your problem was highlighted by both the Association of Doctors of the ESR Laconia and the Medical Association with two letters. In fact, you have also received a recent letter from the Association of Physicians, which I will be tabling later in the Minutes. As we learn that, because of today's timely question, there was a mobilisation, we would like you to tell us what the developments are, because I think that, on the one hand, the hospital is no longer headless and, on the other, there are other issues that we need to see - and I will analyse them to you in my dentistry - which have been dealt with. Some of them are reversible. Some of them, though, aren't. In other words, let the new governor be informed - and on the occasion of the timely question - of what he is going to receive. So I'll see you in second language, after we hear you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u89	And we thank Mr Arachovite. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Arachovitis, you asked us the question on 17 March, when on 3 March 2020 the call for expressions of interest to cover the position of the commander was announced. In other words, within fourteen days I think it was very difficult to cover the position of the commander, following all the procedures provided for in the relevant legislation. I will tell you where we are today because you have referred. No, the procedures have not been speeded up, because it was the timely question today. They shall all proceed in accordance with the programming of the Evaluation Committee and as provided for in existing legislation. The procedures are specific and are the same as those that your party, when it was in the government, exploited for the selection of governors and deputy commanders in hospitals throughout the country. There is an Evaluation Committee. Its composition is defined by law. It is constituted by a decision of the Minister. It has the power to process candidates' applications and their ratings, and, of course, it is not one and two candidates in each hospital. A list of moleculosis, from which the highest scores arise and is given to the Minister of Health. This is precisely the procedure followed for the administration of the Lakonia General Hospital. And you are right to know that this process is being completed and very soon the Lakonia General Hospital will have command. Because you referred to Mr. Kalogerakos, let me applaud his term of office by exercising the debts of the hospital. As Director of Medical Service, Mr. Kalogerakos is inflamed by the Hospital of Sparta. He gave his best self and stood the hospital in the difficult time to date, especially the critical period of the coronary. There are, therefore, rules which we must respect and procedures that require specific time-limits for their implementation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Arachovite, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, Minister, the question was tabled on 17 March, since the hospital was headless from many months earlier. Since 2 January, the hospital was headless. That is what we said at the time. In any case, you told us that the procedure has not yet been completed. I was hoping that today you had an announcement and we could make a name. But apparently, we're still not at this stage, so the hospital remains headless. But what do we have as loose ends for the new commander? The first is that the "Children of Sparta Hospital", continuing to operate, have already found a sponsor, who offered to buy and settle at Sparta Hospital, at Sparta Hospital, a coronary detection machine using the PCR method. This cannot be done, as you can see, while the hospital remains headless. However, the second letter we have - and I shall put it again from the U.S. Doctors' Association - is that the doctors have recently been informed, without prior information being given either to the administration or to the head of the radiology department, that one of the curator of radiation, who is serving at Sparta Nursing Unit, was moved, by surprise, for the Egyptian nursery. The Aegean Nursing Unit may indeed have needs, but it was not much more informed, none of the Sparta Nursing Unit has agreed what the results will be as regards the operation of the Sparta Nursing Unit and the Lakonia Hospital in general, since the Molai Nursing Unit, despite the remarks we have made on several occasions, remains understaffed. So you understand that when the radiological starts to have malfunctions, a whole prefecture, apart from the Sparta Nursing Unit, the entire Lakonia Hospital, will have issues, at risk of patients and of both the burden of the EMCDDA and doctors' servants. These are the two main issues which I will put before you - and I will present to you in the Minutes - the Association of Doctors and will be the two of the biggest problems facing the new commander. We also have the implementation of the Niarchas Foundation's donation, which we have repeatedly welcomed and are very pleased about. The course of its implementation will require management and not only from commander - installation and placement of command - but also from a board of directors, to make the relevant decisions so that all of this does not go back to time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u93	And we thank Mr Arachovite. Minister, you have the floor to close the circle of your own questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arachovitis, first of all, let me tell you that I am the State Secretary for Health and not a member of the Committee on the Evaluation of Candidate Governors and Deputy Governors for Hospitals. I therefore have neither the role nor the reason to intervene in the work of this committee, the procedure of which is specific, according to what is provided for in the law. I told you that the process of this committee is being completed and in very few days we will also have a commander at the Hospital of Sparta. In the state there is continuity in the administration. Even when a commander is prevented from exercising his duties or has resigned or is not in his place, another commander shall exercise his duties. This was also done in the case of the Hospital of Sparta, which was carried out by the Chief of Medical Service. Of course, let me say that the resignation of the commander and members of the hospital board did not cause any problems in the operation of the hospital. In fact, during a difficult period, as was the last few months with the coronary pandemic, where we had to deal with many issues of everyday life, such as the implementation of the hospital budget, the adequacy of health, pharmaceuticals and other materials and the staffing of the Sparta Hospital and the Mola unit with subsidiary staff and other similar issues. I would also like to tell you that in the next few days in a notice which will come out we will strengthen staff in these units even more and above all in the Molase plant. Let me say something else, just as important. The ESDP project at the General Hospital, through which to modernise the hospital equipment and produce better services to the people of Laconia, will be carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, too. We will now discuss the first under number 856/26-6-2020 in the first cycle of the Halkidiki MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Sunday Malamas to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: 'Basics and problems at the start of tourism in Halkidiki'. Mrs Malama, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it has been three weeks since the gradual opening of the Halkidiki tourist economy and today the picture we receive is that of agony, anxiety and very low expectations. The professionals of tourism are unfortunately seeing a season that is very much down to the fullness and the mosques and with too many uncertainties in relation to health management. At the same time, unemployment is growing, given that there is no more than 20% on weekends, while half the hotel business has chosen not to open up in this climate of uncertainty. Large units with hundreds of employees - each has too many, two hundred, two hundred, three hundred, four hundred employees - in Sithonia, in Kassandra and in the rest of the county have announced that they will not work. A crucial problem, which concerns road tourism, is also the very long tails at the Promahona border station. Up to thirty kilometers of tail we had at the weekend, which works too deterrently for tourists from the Balkans. At the same time, most of the countries of reference for Halkidiki tourism, especially for religious ones, remain excluded from the European Union list. Therefore, Minister, we want to ask you in particular how you plan to intervene in support of tourism in Halkidiki and what your plans are in relation to opening up the borders of the tourist markets that have so far been excluded. We would also like you to tell us why this situation is in Promahona, because the reception facilities there are not being strengthened, and why the other border stations, which could absorb part of the traffic, have not been opened up. You have also closed the Serb border, which is something the travellers learned on the road. Why this sudden decision? What are the epidemiological data that led you there, and what care will there be for the cancellations, which will be the final blow to Halkidiki? Finally, we would like to hear your plans in relation to the Halkidiki tourist businesses that are currently struggling with minimal completeness and with the constant risk of hampering the gaps and shortcomings of the health structures of Halkidiki, making them the nurses, nurses, doctors and go and say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u97	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your timely question, Mr Colleague, is obviously to be answered at two levels. At a level that is particularly relevant to Halkidiki and to a general level, because the more general planning of the Ministry helps us with the entire country's tourism industry and, of course, Halkidiki. Let me say a few words in general. The first is that before the pandemic in our country Halkidiki, like all of the country's tourism industry, in the first two months of the year had a significant increase. I'm putting down the road arrivals here. [[At this point, the Minister for Tourism, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Our government, therefore, dealt with strengthening tourist businesses before the pandemic. The figures show a 35% increase in January, 17% in February and a total of 26%, the average of two months. The government has therefore shown that it cares about the success of tourism and, through this success, about support for businesses. The timing of your question, of course, fits very much, because you come to discuss tourism at a time when we opened the Greek tourism product. Our country is open. Its borders are open to welcome tourists. We're open. It is something that we have promised since April in interviews and in speeches here in the House. Your criticism at that time, the criticism of your party and all the means that they support you was ‘how is it possible without having a strategic plan to promise that you will open up?’ It is not going to open up," we were told at the time. We are now in the early days of July and you are not self-criticising about what you have been telling us all these months. You told us we were talking in the air without a plan. For example, at 5-5 when you too, with a timely question from PASOK, found it difficult to say that there was no strategic plan. You then submitted my strategic plan for the PASOK to open up tourism. Here we are two months later and the country is open and welcome tourists. Do we control everything? Do we control the health situation in Serbia? Is it our Government's fault when Serbia has been in an emergency since Friday morning? Belgrade is the largest home of the pandemic in Serbia. When the Serbs themselves place extensive lockdowns in their country, will we not monitor the health data? We have checked and most positive results obtained are from Serbs who have come to our country. What do you say to the people of Halkidiki? Let them come and do not control the situation and the process? Is that what you suggest to everyone you represent? Shouldn't the government care about their health? Because you usually blame us for putting the economy first. Well, now, we have put the health of the Greek people. And now that we open, we open carefully. And we open with careful steps, which will preserve health success. Our country is a global example, ladies and gentlemen, for its health success and will remain a global example in the gradual opening up of the market, because we are starting with the system in which we are making controls, with the countries we are opening up. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs was in full consultation with the authorities of Serbia when the decision was taken by the health carers, so that there was no surprise, no matter what there was. So our government has a plan and implements it. I close, Mr President, to say the most in dentistry, reminding the five axes of the project - which in dentistry I will analyse more - which has made us happy to say that our country has opened its borders and accepts tourists since 1 July: One is the sanitary axis, with the long and hard work that our Ministry has done, but more with the good cooperation with the Ministry of Health, with EGEY, with the rest of the institutions and civil protection, to cover health and safety at all times. The economic axis, which supports all businesses and tourism enterprises with the latest measures announced here by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis from the Step of the House. In addition, support for domestic tourism. It is a tourism that can particularly support the areas of northern Greece and Halkidiki. The diplomatic axis, which allows us to have a common position in the European Union. We'll talk about it. The country's promotion: Today we announced a third promotion program, which will enhance our country's image abroad and allow flows to come faster. The contacts we have with tour operators and international media. We signed last week a memorandum of strategic cooperation with the largest tour operator, which brings us 3 million tourists every year. With these five axes, we triggered a plan that brought results. The more you criticized, the more we worked. We had our heads down, we were working together, we had lifted up the sleeves and, as of July 1, our country is ready and faced with any situation that might come to her. And today's communication, too, on the diplomatic level, has been a great success, the opening of the borders with Great Britain since 15 July and the second largest market in our country, is open to Greece and will go to all small regions. Because the British market has tourists who go to all parts of our country, the Ionian Islands, Skiathos, Halkidiki, to small destinations based on the existence of this market. So support for business and support for the tourist market by the government, by me, if you want, personally, is in practice rather than in words and will continue to be that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u99	Mrs Malama, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u100	Minister, this is the third question I ask you about tourism. I guess you don't remember. It's not the first question. I continue, however, and say that reality is so painfully frustrating your government triumphs for tourism. Because the hotel federation itself announced that Halkidiki was full of 20% and estimates that at most it would reach 25% - 30% end of July - August. These are not my statistics. So, then, I don't understand where you see this whole crowd crawling into Halkidiki and you triumph. The previous weekend for Halkidiki was devastating. Empty beaches, empty shops, empty hotels, empty rooms for rent. You've probably not been there, you haven't seen each other and you're not being properly informed. I don't know. Honestly, I don't know. In the last forty-hour, the cancellations of tourists who intended to reach Halkidiki by road are constantly being made and fall "the rain". You announced the opening of the border stations, as you say, and then you got it back. You're back. We didn't tell you that the Serbs should have no control over crossing the border. But why all at the last minute? Why is all this suffering on the Promachon? Why don't you have staircases run tests on the rest of the border stations, so people can come? The result is that tourists cancel group. These last-minute cancellations are the worst thing for Halkidiki tourism. Secondly, there is the fact that many tourists denounce that the tracking application, which so much so much you have ads, is not working. They arrive at hotel complaints that tourists canceled them because they were unable to register and receive this voucher. And I ask you, who's gonna pay for all this? Why are you destroying Halkidiki's tourism while triumphing that everything is going well? Why doesn't the barcode application work? Why are you trying to convince us that everything is going well at the border? The picture of empty villages, empty shops, with your licensed hotels doesn't bother you? Don't you see that anywhere? Are you satisfied, Minister, with this, honestly? So we know what we're gonna tell the professionals, so we know what we're gonna do. Because I personally believe you probably want to destroy Halkidiki's tourism. I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Malama. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u102	It is a pity for a colleague to say that the Minister of Tourism wants to destroy our country's tourism. I will leave this in the crisis of the Greek people who have heard you eclipse in this Chamber. I'll get over it. At least I'd expect you to listen to me. Who triumphed? Did I say things are pomegranate? Tourism reached point zero. Did the New Democracy Government bring this? The crisis, the pandemic brought by the Minister of Tourism? The Lockdowns who brought them? The countries which, under the pretext of economic recovery, did not take the measures quickly pay twice in both deaths and in greater recession. In the first quarter, with the figures we have had so far, we were better than Europe's average, which has delayed taking measures, in the name of the economy that it had to safeguard. Don't you see that? Did we ever say it would be a successful year, with 2019 standards? Did we ever say they could come thirty-three million tourists? We're at zero. Your criticism, however, was that we would never open up. And now that we're opening your review, it's that we don't have enough of it. And if the information goes up, you'll need more detail. And if they get to 100%, you say yes, but there are some hotels they haven't opened yet. When are you gonna make self-criticism? Because in the end all that goes beyond your ignorance is your courage! When are you finally going to bend the head and say that in these two months what the Ministry of Tourism has heard was wrong? For two months you have told us: 'You have no strategic plan! You will not be able to open it!' Well, here we are open! That is where we are accepting from all over Europe! And yes, if necessary, the borders will be closed for some countries, if that is what citizens' health demands. Because the Government of New Democracy supports the health of each Greek and every Greek woman. We put this as a first value, as a first priority! We see that the economy succeeds better. I can assure you, therefore, that we have had a plan and this plan has started and operated. And yes, now it's the battle of the most world. It is now the battle that Europe has decided slowly to expand the list of countries that we can accept, to be able to achieve the best possible result. But if a country has not succeeded in harnessing the coronary, we will not open up. And that's not a tourist decision. The Minister of Tourism does not decide. The health workers, the Minister of Health, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and finally the Prime Minister himself. We are here and we support 3.5 billion, with no business contributions to the seasonal, non-standard criterion - not a standard criterion - of what is a seasonal business and what is not - as to whether it has been affected or not. Because, yes, an enterprise that is in the tourist sector can happen through the CIS, while all the other businesses go well through the crisis, it is affected because it is in a tourist area that has died. We therefore support a number of measures. We were the first country in the diplomatic field that we took a position on which countries must open up and forced the European Union into a common policy and a common proposal. The European Union currently has an opinion on how to open the borders, because Greece was in the lead, and it said that 'we can't wait any longer, or you will have an opinion or we announce our own decisions'. Because, good or bad, we are at a point where there is no model of copying from abroad. We're always talking about why you don't get a model from outside to copy it, quiet? That is what we hear in political discussions. Well, this time it doesn't exist. This is the price of this success, that we are in the lead with the PLF, this form that preserves us, with the four sanitary axes, with improved protocols, for example on buses from 50% to 65%, and we will move towards 100%, with improvements to the cruise protocols, the last remaining ones, who have worked our own sanitary so that we can end up with protocols, with open yachting, off the coast, with a world that comes and enjoys. I myself was in Kos, Corfu, Mykonos, Rhodes, Heraklion and all the prefectures of Crete to see the problems with my eyes. We have run for the past two weeks and found isolation hotels in each county and every island, so that we can be ready and deal with every situation, with the doctors involved, with the hotels. And you're referring to Halkidiki as having a problem with contracts when the Halkidiki contract is a model contract? Don't you know that in the county elected by the Medical Association of Halkidiki has come to an agreement with the local hotel club and has made a contract that the rest of the prefectures have replicated? As far as the health protocol you say is concerned, it is not true that third customers - not those who live in the hotel - cannot go to the health stores. You don't know that? All they can't do is go to the rooms as guests, so there's no danger of spreading the disease. Of course, third parties can go to the sanitary stores, to the restaurants in a hotel and eat. Don't you know that we've given solutions to a number of problems, and we're giving them daily? We are not always readers to make solutions from the outset and to know everything. But we're on top. I get messages from every destination and from every tourist country with the problems and we look to solve them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u103	But please, Minister. It's all right, but you need to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u104	But there are so many issues of tourism policy and they are so interested in the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u105	Yes, but you've gone far beyond time. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u106	I'm hanging up. It is therefore the 'Destination Greece Health First' campaign which we are starting today, an innovative safety campaign that gives the mark of what our country is this year. Because behind every beautiful experience small or large that a tourist will have in our country, there is a whole protocol, there is a plan that keeps him safe. This project was carried out by this government under the guidance of the Prime Minister, in cooperation with all the stakeholders, from the Civil Protection, from the EGE, from the health ministry, from the regions that had an active role in being able to implement this project and to be sure that we can offer the best experience in the tourist. And within all of this we even managed to build an app, the 'Visit Greece', by strengthening the weapons that the EOT has in its patron. The EOT was active at every moment of the crisis. And even though he would usually not do anything in such a situation, he did "Greece from Home", he worked together and made the "Endless Greek Summer", as well as this new campaign that will allow the flows to begin again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, as a result of a blockade by Mr Fotinis Bakakimas, two topical questions to the Minister for Civil Protection will not be discussed. In particular, the second question under number 861/28-6-2020 will not be discussed at the second time at the second parliamentary session of the 2nd Piraeus, Mr. Fotinis Bakadam to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "A worrying increase in the number of missing children and adolescents". It will also not be discussed, the fourth under number 862/28-6-2020, second-round question by MP II Piraeus, by Mr.Fotinis Bakadammas, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Reiterate a book of enclosed students at the School of Officials of the Hellenic Police." I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft Law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: 'Public outdoor meetings and other provisions'. Ladies and gentlemen, the minutes of the sittings of Tuesday 5 May 2020 and Friday 8 May 2020 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u108	The Minutes of Tuesday 5 May 2020 and Friday 8 May 2020 were therefore ratified. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Before entering the agenda for questions, we will have a short break for the sanitary cleansing of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The debate will be taken at number 23/12/28-5-2020 on a topical and urgent question from the Members of the Radical Left coalition Group, and of the Members of this House. Georgiou Pyrochori, Dimitrios Vitsa, Ioannis Mousalas, Nektorios Santorini, Andreas Michailidis, Theanos Fotou, Eleftherios Avramakis, Ireni - Helen Agathopoulos, Athanasias (Syria) Anagnostopoulou, Stavros Arahovalis, Theodoras, Augeris, Happiness Ahtsiologlou, Anna Valadonis, Socrates Bardakis, Vasilis, Kalliopis, Ollas Gerovalis, Christos Giannou, Anastasiasia Giolani Giolas, Theodoris, Sultaniadis, Ioannis Konstantinos Zacharikis, Zachanistantinos, Zoussi, Zousse, Karyannisanistanis, Kalakistanis – Karyannisanistanis (Harousia) The reason is the first honourable Member, the MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Psychogios for ten minutes. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are about six months later to discuss a topical question of sixty-six Members of the SYRIZA on the very crucial issue of refugee immigration. There is also the concept and priority that the government has to answer these questions, and of course, despite the fact that the debate remains timely, because the situation remains very difficult. So the government has taken more than six months to realize that there is a need for a ministry that coordinates and plans all aspects and actions for refugee - immigration, with disastrous results, of course. You have not, of course, seen two very important mistakes, which we put to you in the topical question, because we have told you that the re-establishment of the Ministry will obviously not solve all the problems. Your policy is therefore impoverished, inefficient and dangerous for asylum seekers and local communities, but also your manipulations, expose the country and isolate it. But the functioning of parliamentary control is not to come here and say yes, we disagree, we are done. It is for the Greek people to learn a situation, a policy and a few options, which are hidden from your expensive media, presenting an image, which, possibly, is also idyllic. The situation remains tragic, it remains very difficult and we have evidence to prove it and you will have to answer it. Before entering the questions, I would like to remind the House of something. About two years ago Mr Metatakis and Mr Brutsis, together with another seventy colleagues, signed a timely question to SYRIZA and the government. With your choices so far, you have proved hypocrisy and the inadequacy of what you were asking for at the time with the timely question on 18-10-2018, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes, along with a relevant question by Mr Varvitsiotis on the circumstances in Moria. [[At this point Mr Georgios Psychogios presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Do, then, reason for an unreserved accumulation of human souls. The number today everyone knows that he's too much than the one you received from SYRIZA. Decongestion is minimal. Moria on 2-7-2020 has fifteen thousand two hundred thirty nine, when it was twenty-two thousand, we handed over five thousand six hundred and fifty-four to six-7-2019, while Lesbos has seventeen thousand two hundred eighteen, and we handed over seven thousand eighty-six. He was talking about tents without heating bodies. It is tragic that today's conditions for families and children are insulting their lives and dignity, and we have also visited there in the previous period. No care for the coronary and individual abandonment even to beaches of people who arrived in the country. No one wants to say everything was perfect on SYRIZA. We have never said so and we have done so as a government and as parliamentarians, but there has been a clear organisation, a better image and a continuous effort to dismantle the islands. He was talking about a heavy blow to the country's prestige. Is that the situation I described above? With the MATs on the islands, AMKA is cut for asylum seekers and tragic situations in hospitals and the general population. You have taken back in vain - the suspension of asylum following the outcry but also constant complaints and announcements from international organizations. The question of social sensitivity was spoken about the unaccompanied. Really? With hundreds of unaccompanied police stations today and with an age-old division unthinkable for 15 years over, fifteen down for deportations? So the Greek people must see and learn populism, hypocrisy, inadequacy and unacceptable strategy in refugees. I'm going through the questions. I'm going to apply a tactic that I'm going to ask questions and make our suggestion. So I start by saying: will you finally implement a plan of smooth and stable decongestion on the islands? The situation - I mentioned before - is still a humanitarian crisis, with more than twice as many people as you have received and with an explosive situation in which you are going to invest with concentration camps that will create further explosive situations. We are therefore asking for a direct decongestion of the islands now with those who have a geographical destination and those who belong to vulnerable groups and no closed structure, which will mean a violation of rights, a condemnation of the country, further explosive situations for local communities and an inefficient and dead-end strategy. Secondly, will you review the non-legislative and funding - why has this been proved by your plan - by the European Union, a plan for the generalised reservation of thirty-six months? The government within the bosom it has created is starting to implement its plan to transform the islands of the Aegean into prisons of asylum seekers. The closed reception centres, which will be created, will be detention areas for thirty-six months for all those arriving in the country, the design outside of European and international legality that is tampering with rights and, of course, the European Commission has not been approved by the Government recently to use the 133,000 euros from the state budget to build closed structures in Kos, Samos and Leros. So you must inform the House and the Greek people about exactly how much this burden is and, of course, you must apologise, because at the government of SYRIZA you said that SYRIZA was using a national budget while it was European. So get this planning back to the inefficient, impasse, the inhumane for closed structures and stop targeting refugees, migrant workers in non-governmental organisations and the improperness of local societies. Will you request the renewal and extension of the ESTIA and PHILOXENIA programmes? At a time when the country is facing a great deal of hospitality, you announce that you will stop places in hotels and put a 10% cash available to the municipalities to implement the 'ESTIA II' programme. No one will implement it. Where are all these people going? Are they going to Victoria Square? Local government agencies play an important role in management and you should listen to them. You should also listen to the CEDEFOP on weight distribution throughout the country and the 'ESTIA II' programme that they embraced. You need to reinstate - the third question - the provisions and the differences for international protection to be examined individually on the basis of the guarantees provided for by European and international law, which you have drawn up with your legislative intervention and initiatives, from the language of interview to the deadlines for examining requests up to safe third countries, even the age distribution of unaccompanied minors, as well as for humanitarian reasons, a provision which you apply retroactively and even for people with disabilities. As for unaccompanied minors, age restriction must be lifted immediately, as I have said before. You have to apply the law on the comitology delivered by the SYRIZA government, has been welcomed by the Council of Europe, but it is inactive and not to invoke this inertia in this matter for so many months, to make outsourcing outsourcing to private bodies, a competence and a project that was the EKRD. We are now going to the rhetoric of some of your members - and, indeed, to the top, the ministers and Members of Parliament - to prevent at sea and international law. You insist on a xenophobic and deadlocked policy on a prevention message. Officers are asking you for public boat patrols to prevent, while increasing the publications in the Greek and international press for pushbacks. I will submit to the minutes, not only declarations by your officials, but also reports from the international press, in particular from the 'DEUTSCHE WELLE', but also two leading international organisations, the High Commissioner for Immigration and the International Organisation for Immigration on this issue. [[At this point, the Member, George Psychogios, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Port House is well aware that it has been overdue in previous years with four hundred and fifty thousand rescues, observing the law and making the country proud. Anything else is a violation of international law, it exposes the country and deprives it of a negotiating paper on its foreign policy towards Turkey and the work it does on the refugee issue - and obviously we have said so publicly in all our opportunities - but puts the lives of our ports at risk. After a year of constant mistakes, the government has abandoned the national accession strategy. What the government of SYRIZA started in education with access to schools, with full access to health with AMKA, with training and language learning, work, access to sport even for recognised refugees, where there, in fact, you have exhausted your analgesia with thirty days without support framework and the squares of the country being filled with people who have no care, you have torpedoed it. So you must demand European funding for all these programmes and implement the OAED programmes for work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. We want you to tell us what practical solutions you have given for European funding, when the SYRIZA government made twenty-thousand relocations, family reunifications, meetings with the countries of the South, fighting the causes and supporting third countries for migration and refugee flows, when you ask for exceptions from International Law, matching what we call 'Europe's shield and'storey of souls', instead of asking for weight sharing from them. Finally, I am referring to your multiannual plan, which currently has posters everywhere. Unfortunately, there are no recruitments, neither contract staff nor permanent staff, and direct assignments from these EUR million post-mortems. And, of course, I should like to conclude by saying that the refugee should be structured on the basis of a strategy which is not just about day-to-day management, but about a concept that puts solidarity, social cohesion on a truly complex issue, such as refugee, with weight-sharing across Greece, weight-sharing across Europe, through the proposals and pressures that need to be put on permanent relocation mechanisms and not on an issue that we will address ourselves as a'small European', with support for local societies, the implementation of European and international law without discounts, but, ladies and gentlemen, and with a perception that we have to do with numbers and with people. That is why they should have rights and obligations in modern societies, both in Greece and in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u111	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mrs Fotou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u112	Isn't it Mr. Muzala's turn to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u113	Second of all, Mrs. Fotio. Will you use your dentistry, Mrs. Fotio?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u114	Yes, Madam President. Minister, in three days a year will be completed by the New Democracy Government. So it is time to appreciate what you have done to protect unaccompanied minors so that the people know what you have received and what you have done on a matter for children. I will use the latest data from the EKRD, the National Centre for Social Solidarity of 30 June 2020 and the corresponding data from June 2019 and I will submit two tables. What is resulting from the comparison of the two tables? That you received three thousand nine hundred children and that was still pending the settlement of eight hundred children in hospitality structures. Within one year the children increased to four thousand seven hundred, that is, you had an increase of 21%. However, the children to be settled increased by 65% and reached the thousands of three hundred and fifty, with the elements of the EKKA that you want to abolish. This is what you have achieved within a year, to increase by 65% the children who remain locked in the "Mories" and the "Amgdales". How did you achieve this accomplishment? Because it's an achievement! Firstly, the Prime Minister took them under his protection and handed them over to Mrs. Secondly, instead of Mrs Meridakis, the special secretary for unaccompanied minors, to be appointed to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs who has the protection of the child and supervises the EKKA - the Ministry itself - because children are children, you know - you have appointed her to the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum to deal with children not as children, but as migrants to be expelled in violation of international treaties. I mean, it's a total mess! What did we receive in 2015 for unaccompanied Samara - Venizelos government? Almost nothing! Within four years we have built two thousand long and short-term accommodation places. Ready to deliver, we had two hundred seats, you took them, and we established the roofs of semi-autonomous living - SAD - by ensuring that they are financed by Europe. At the same time, we voted for the committee law in 2018 and issued in one year all ministerial decisions - very difficult ministerial decisions - to implement the law, so that children can have a Commissioner with individual responsibility, while through the ECA minors' registers the state can have a transparent picture of the situation. What did you do in a year? You began with the pursuant "Chrysochoid" in November 2019, which introduced unprecedented and unprecedented discrimination of minors in over and above 15 years in violation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the international, European and Greek legal order, with a view to deporting, by means of summary procedures, the "safe" countries of origin of over 15 years, that is, the vast majority, Madam President, since only 15% are under fifteen years old. That is, in simple terms, only seven hundred of the four thousand children are considered children and are protected from asylum. We have been told several times by Mr Kumucakos - and I do not want to blame him - that you do not intend to deport anyone. If that is the case, I would like to ask you: why do you not abolish the infamous provision of the 'Crysochide Law' which exposes you and the country internationally? Minister, not only do you not abolish it, but you have strengthened it with your subsequent moves. So you took the unaccompanied ones from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that has the protection of the child and took them to the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum to deal with them as immigrants, because of the four thousand seventeen thousand children over the fifteen are the fourteenth. That is what the people must hear. This is what you want to see as terrorists or as coming from supposedly safe countries to be deported. If Mr Mitsoitakis' sensitivity to unaccompanied children, which he makes for communication purposes, would have been in the social affairs portfolio under Ms Michaelidou and not in the Immigration and Asylum. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. So I ask, Mr Minister, why is Mrs Meridakis' position not in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs? Finally you also took the registers from the EKK and abolished a system that since 2016 has been created by a SYRIZA government and funding from UNICEF. This is the system and it is reliable to imprint the situation. It is unique in Europe. And leave the commission to EKK as an empty shirt. How will Mrs. Lovedakis manage the registers now? I would like to ask you, Mr Minister, that the final state is forbidden to use the EKKA, and that it must build a new service with posters, NGOs and third parties, that is to say, our children - yours - without the proper procedure of the EKKA? Who, and on what criteria, chose the few children relocated to Germany and Luxembourg? I've asked many times. How and by whom will the children destined for the Czech Republic who now ask you, just as she asked us, be chosen to have specific features that she would approve? I shall submit the translation of the text that Mr Kumucasos gave me and which he did not submit last week. By the way, since you had this agreement with Czechoslovakia since November, did you take the children to Czechoslovakia? Did you send them? We, Minister, have reached an agreement with Britain for a hundred children. Forty were already transferred to Britain from us, and the remaining sixty had been chosen by the EKKA by improper means of transport. Alexis Tsipras didn't go to the airport to say goodbye to show how loving and sensitive he is! Questions are relentless. With the communication management of the image you may be earning temporary time. You do not, however, solve the problems that your own policy is causing and bending in order to mock the ears of your far-right audience. I'm presenting the document that I mentioned before. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theano Fotio, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Madam President, thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u115	Thank you too, my colleague. I just want to remind you that your time is five minutes for your first-hand speech and three minutes for your second-hand speech. There will be a relative tolerance, but it will not be excessive. Mr Mouzalas has the floor now. Will you also use the speech, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u116	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u117	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, immigration is not a new phenomenon in human history, which has happened in our years and in Greece and we are vigilant about it: 'What has happened to us!' It is a phenomenon based on which humanity is developing and now it is a phenomenon that has been scientifically studied, scientific solutions have been found, answers have been given to the questions raised. There is no doubt that this is a problem. It's not just a challenge. The challenge is how to solve this problem. In 2015, with a SYRIZA government, we faced the greatest migration and refugee current that existed in the history of humanity after World War II. Today you are facing the residues of this refugee - immigration - with very small flows, which at any time - I despise that - may grow. You do, however, things that violate any concept of rule of law. Whatever. That is why you are also controlled by the European Union and controlled by humanitarian organisations. You are also controlled by institutions. You're atrocious. Make atrocities for communication. You do atrocities because you have concluded that what you need in order to remain a government is the votes of the extreme right, they are the votes that you took from the Golden Dawn and you hope to keep and they are the votes that you expect you can get from the Greek Solution, since you are the only one to whom you are apologise because you are not wilder than what you are today. This thing by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance will deal with it by extending the front against the violations of the rule of law. We have tried to apply a balance of rights, not just because we are left, not because we love refugees - immigrants - whom we love - but by trying to resolve and help the problem based on international law, based on the rule of law. In this context, I would like to say that your barbarity leads to the suffering of the Greek people. Instead, our observance of the rule of law has helped this very big problem that we have experienced as painlessly as possible for the Greek people and creates a wave of solidarity, for which we have only heard positive comments throughout the world. I would like to say to you, in other words, that by embling children - something you have stopped doing - we have avoided communicating diseases. By giving social security number, we gave care and we didn't have epidemics. You cut those. By taking the children to school, we made the family members together and not engage in criminal circuits, which develop in any such current. Learning languages to children and adults, we made them easier to adapt to Greek society. Giving a roof, we emptied the squares. By giving a bank account, we were able to turn them into finding a job, having a chance. Remove everything. I don't have much time to stand. The squares are refilling. That's not incompetent. It's a plan. It was the project that SYRIZA faced and implemented in 2012: squares full of social conflicts, social automations, "Zeamen" running to beat. Yesterday, in Victoria Square, they took the kids and put them in the buses, saying that mothers will follow. We are a European country. That's what we'll resist. I would also like to say about the European part. Mr. Kumoutsakou told us things. Look, I want to make a clarification. Your plan for a shield of Europe is nationally dangerous. I'm not saying you're nationally dangerous. I'm saying the plan you're developing is nationally dangerous. It limits the problem to Greek-Turkish, arm Erdogan with another weapon, which will, when necessary, add to the other claims and other weapons he has. Watch what we've done all these years. When we went to Europe, Europe said that Greece must be the shield. Along with Mr Avramopoulos, Mr.Asselnott, even with Mr. De Mezier of Germany from one point to another, we succeeded in highlighting the problem in a European context. We have succeeded in getting relocation for twenty-two thousand, sending sixteen thousand unaccompanied minors, making sixteen thousand family reunifications, making twelve thousand voluntary returns, taking Frontex, taking EASO, taking three housing programs that remove them. The Key you made, a place - hell. Nothing else has you made in the 12 months, not even the detention centres you say and say again and say again and we don't know what you're going to do. But there's nothing to see, judging it, except drowning the islands. We did the resettling that twenty-five thousand left Turkey directly for Europe. This means that they didn't have to go to Greece. In other words, we have put the problem in the European position. And you are proud that at the moment all Europe is saying what the Visegrad were saying in 2015. The problem is a problem with borders, with Greece, Italy and Spain solving it. And you're proud! Greece can solve immigration. A country can replace a continent. Erdogan's gonna use it. Gentlemen, the shield policy is dangerous in our foreign policy. It will be paid if it continues and does not change and is paid with greater national losses. Because I'm telling you that the Turkish state, Erdogan, will use it as another weapon, which is easy on land to deal with, and we were all united when it was dealt with. At sea, you know, when two boats come, you do the violations of international law. When more boats come, we'll have drowning, death. And you will also be responsible and will have damaged both Greece's image and the rule of law. I see Mr. Kamine. Mr Kamine, on the occasion of the debate on Victoria Square, I would like to tell you about the example of cooperation where we had strong disagreements. We were trying to clear the squares and we found Mr. Kamin, we talked to him. He gave us olive grove, gave us the second olive grove. He didn't give him to us. He gave him to solve his problem. I remind you that we were talking about finding a place to transfer the banks that have been in Victoria Square to stop the squares being space. You're not doing anything. You run, you're deterring, and you think that's how you can deal with it. That's not how it's treated. There is historical experience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Vitits has the floor now. Will you also take the dentistry, Mr. Vitsa?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u120	We'll see. I guess so. So, Minister, what do we want for immigration - refugee? First of all, we want - I imagine everyone, but see if we agree - to reduce refugee and immigration flows by hitting the causes of refugee and immigration. Because you can make a reduction like Orban, that is, disgusting and leading people to death. We want full implementation of international law and, in particular, of asylum law under the Geneva Convention, the New York Protocol and the Marrakesh Political Agreement. We want a decent treatment for asylum seekers until the decision is adopted on the application - human dignity, how great a word - and, respectively, decent treatment for Greeks and other residents in Greece and around these regions, the adoption of membership programmes for those who deserve it and we want a fair sharing of the burden in the European Union in all the countries of Europe. Tasia Christodoulopoulos, Yannis Muzalas, Yannis Balafas, me and Angelo Tolkas have been in the position that you are today. We have been overlooked, we have been attacked, we have heard lies from the Opposition and the upcoming media, but we have also received congratulations from international organisations and from the European Union. However, the greatest aid was from the democratic Greek people. And this must be known to everyone. But we have always talked in this Chamber and outside, with honesty, both in the difficult and the easiest. I would like to see you today, too, if you will speak frankly or if your logic will be the logic of the success story, whether things are like this or not. What, in my opinion, is the government's greatest success in the matter we are discussing today? It is that it has achieved an agreement of silence with the large media, a 'grouper', so that the Greeks ignore, which is also a personal experience. But reality can't be hidden. In July 2019 on the islands there were seventeen thousand asylum seekers, the fifteen thousand five hundred were in the CYTs, and within the first six months of New Democracy governance the number had more than doubled, i.e. in December 2019 it was thirty-nine thousand, to peak in March 2020 and to go to forty-two thousand and today to be thirty-three thousand. The evidence is from the ESRB and I'll submit it to the minutes of the House. Indeed, huge success! Let's see how you got there. In July 2019, you abolish the Ministry of Migration Policy and submit all responsibilities to the Ministry of Civil Protection. The position of the Secretary-General for Immigration shall be abolished, the competent police department shall be removed and the chief lieutenant shall be released. In October 2019, the new Republic and the Change Movement are voted on by the votes of the New Democracy and the Refugee Act 4636 that deprives the vast majority of rights to care and work, sets out extra-real deadlines for the completion of procedures, removes the post-traumatic stress from the medical vulnerability protocols, etc. You accused SYRIZA's previous government of leaving you seventy thousand loose ends for asylum. In December these loose ends were hundreds of twenty thousand to arrive in July to be ninety - seven thousand twenty - three. In December 2019, an amendment introduces the Single Border Surveillance Body, etc., which is subject to the national coordinator designated since November 2019, while announces that another coordinator will be appointed for unaccompanied minors, which has been done, although since then I have to say that we have not seen this coordinator anywhere. I hope, first of all, she's fine and, secondly, she's working. The huge offer of the single operator and the national coordinator was therefore an invitation to show interest of EUR 500,000 in the supply of floating dams. Even laughs at the Greek and Europe, while at the same time remembering the demonstration of the island of Levitha as a new model of "hostness" - put the word "hostness" into too many introductory forms - that is, the use of uninhabited islands as a place of establishment. Quickly taken back. I have one question: is the law that we have voted on here in Parliament for the coordinating body and the national coordinator? Is that the law? Make me a node, if you want. Is that the law, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u121	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u122	So, if there is still, then what do you, what does the Chief of HNDGS do, what does the Chief of Portican and the Chief of Police do, and anyway, what does the Deputy Minister of National Defence do, Mr. Stefanis, who was the coordinator? In February 2020, a legislative act imposes areas for the construction of closed KSTs. Let me tell you that, when they are manufactured, and you yourself will see that this is not a closed or controlled CST, but a concentration camp. Remember Libya, where they suddenly opened a centre and sent thousands of people, most of whom died in the desert. Do you remember that? Don't get there. I'm talking about the recent stuff. Don't get to any more. In the face of the intense reactions of islanders, the government then responded with the MATs. We know what happened. I would like to point out, however, this. The government insulted not only the islanders but also the Greek police, making this move. In March 2020, we had the epic of Evros. Turkey's government has worked on refugees and immigrants in Castani. The government's talking about hybrid war. Who is it from? You know, many people say 'we have a hybrid war','some must have a hybrid war'. Nobody's going on with it. It does not say with Turkey or with anything else, because then it will understand, if it says so, that we are not dealing with refugee - immigration, but with some kind of conflict between the two countries. The move, anyway, is rightly dealt with. But I must point out that the serious fact is also being exploited by armed groups of paramilitaries, which you have covered - as a government, not yourself - and, of course, you have been suspending the examination of asylum applications for a month. International and Greek reactions do not extend to the PPP. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell is ringing by Mr IV Vice-President of Parliament.]] At the same time - Mr Psychogios said so - after Evros, reports of push backs in the Aegean are growing. We have the 'ESTIA' programme. We are learning from all sides that 'ESTIA II' - I hope you will tell us - is not going well. I wish, but I hear that many municipalities refuse to enter and that the appropriations approved by the European Union are 25% to 30% less than the previous ones. I wish my information was wrong. I wish we had more seats. For Greece as a shield of Europe, Yiannis said it all. I don't have to say anything else. In April 2020, the government applies the immunity of herds to the population of structures, and of course we have the known direct assignments. Paul Paul Paulakis has often displayed such cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u123	Mr Colleague, you have already exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u124	Yes, Madam President. In thirty seconds, I'll close. Of course, there are all the questions in relation to the cost of the two structures you make, one in Serres and the other in Malakasa, and the story about the 133 million that you have to answer today. Is it money that we will put from the state budget and get it from Europe? Is it money that we will get directly from Europe, from us? So I'm hanging up. You did this nice thing. Success, in my opinion: zero. Infringement of international and Greek rules: full. Europe's money for refugee - immigration: hundreds of millions. In favour of refugees, however: zero. Your logic moves the country away from the values it has either created or adopted. I must tell you, Mr Mitsarakis, that in some years now some people in this Chamber will be discussing immigration again. If the basis will be our own policy, as expressed by the previous ones, and our own practice or your own, it will finally have shaped how close or far Europe and Greece will be from democracy and humanism or totalitarianism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u125	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Burnus will now be given the floor. Will you take all the time, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u126	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u127	I hope you use this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u128	Madam President, the previous colleague spoke for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u129	I know how much he talked about, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Burnus, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Your tragic policy has been condemning both islanders and asylum seekers for a year now in misery, insecurity and abandonment. Before the elections, you were soaring that Tsipras was bringing them. Postgraduately when in just six months you quadruple the refugee and migration population in Lesvos you discovered as apprentices that there are geopolitical reasons for the refugee flows. You spent a whole six months baptizing that you don't need a Ministry of Migration Policy. Then you brought it back. And from there on, the thing goes with a succession of government authoritarianism, denial of reality, frustrating actions and ruthless calculations of political logic. A key axis of your policy has become the infamous deterrent, the doctrine of making life hell for them to be afraid to come. What your far right wing demanded from the time she nested at the LAS of Karatzafiris. You have made an element of preventing the incarceration of refugees in conditions of favelas, such as the so-called 'Moria' jungle'. Nowadays, you let offender gangs act uncontrollably, to smuggle drug trafficking, prostitution and child prostitution. You who swore in the name of supposed security and, in 2020, you anticipated a transfer of police to Lesvos, today you are whistling indifferently in front of all this. As if it were not enough, you have reached the point of breaking the Geneva Treaty, that is to say doing what we rightly blamed and blamed the Erdogan government. You have found the solution to barbarism in order to get a message of deterrence, as if those who come have not lived in cruelty and inhuman behaviour in their countries or in the countries from which they have passed. In this way you familiarize our local communities and public services with the inappropriateness and indifference of the fellowman. You're being punished for the rest. You fly out of the housing programmes with European Union subsidies, without even doing anything to provide VAT and travel documents in time, which prevents them from working and renting a residence legally for as long as they remain in Greece or leaving legally to their countries of destination. You push them into the constellation and the dark zone of the irregularity, while they are recognised refugees. They are stacked in the squares and then you are looking to transport them and hide them somewhere, but temporarily, as long as they do not appear in official numbers. I don't know if anyone's ever handled a problem with so much inadequacy, misery and inconvenience together. Even where you are supposed to be in the interest of being effective, that is to say, in the operation of asylum services and reception centres, you refuse to renew workers' contracts, you are not interested in adequacy of personnel, you are even doing away with party criteria. You did the same in health. You have made it difficult for them to access public care, because that is how far right-wing brains were demanding in your party. And when the coronary broke out, you left them, at least in Lesvos, for more than two months at their luck until other bodies and NGOs, who are so targeting, with their donations. Depending on the education of the applicants, forgetting that education is the main mechanism for learning the language, rules and habits of a country. You want them isolated or on the road so that you can then accuse them of not wanting to adapt to our country. Until a year ago, ladies and gentlemen, this country had a national strategy on refugee. He had a policy of decongestion on the islands, housing policy, health for refugees and asylum seekers and education policy for their children, as it requires the country's own interests, namely managing the refugee and immigration problem in order, with responsibility, without disrupting normal social and economic life, nor multiplying the impoverished in the public area. The country also had a European strategy, constantly pressing for the implementation of the agreed relocations and the necessary European co-responsibility. Today you have chosen the role of Europe's border prison in exchange for the friendly blow to the back and money of the European leadership. It's all about communication and business. Since I referred to jobs, Mr Mitaraki, keep in mind that you will once be called upon to address the secret funds that you have required your Ministry to have, as if it were the National Intelligence Agency or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Immersed in your ideal, you forget that the image of a country that respects international law, which observes international conditions, which examines its actions and its omissions transparently and courageously, is translated into prestige and influence on the international stage. You do not understand that, as you do not understand much from foreign policy. The gradual dismantling you've caused was also seen in the brutal behavior of MATs to my fellow citizens. On the other hand, the conduct of the MATs also fits in your vision of the islands of the eastern Aegean. What vision? Convert them into camps of incarceration of populations, into a special zone of squash between the mainland and Turkey, to archipelagos of closed structures. You will sacrifice our islands, so that you can bring as few asylum seekers to the inland as possible, so that you do not anger your electoral clientele, after you have seen it with lies and intolerance. On the one hand, you have cultivated and encouraged, today, extreme reactions to local communities and self-government, on the other, you are punishing the locust islanders because they were born at the border with Turkey and a few years ago they gave global lessons of humanity, hospitality and solidarity. But you should know that the time will come for them to punish you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Santorinios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I remember these days last summer going to the islands of the Dodecanese by election and listening to the institutions and citizens telling me that the New Democracy will solve the problems of refugees. You've convinced them that once you're elected, the islands will become earthly paradises. And then what? You were elected, and what did the people see? Increase the population of refugees and immigrants on the islands, new structures and islands - prisons and soul warehouses. Last year, the islands had fifteen and a half thousands of refugees and immigrants, this year over thirty - four thousand refugees and immigrants. We have more than doubled. Congratulations! Is that the decongestion you promised? You will tell us again about the decline in the population of refugees and immigrants on the islands. But what are you going to compare? With the facts of your own government. You dare not even mention how many immigrants and refugees we left to the islands, because we had moved on to a brave disarmament programme that you did not continue. You did not go on because you wanted to satisfy your far right audience in mainland Greece. You preferred to fail your promises to the islanders, to satisfy the thoughts and far-rights that went out to the squares to expel immigrants and protest Macedonian. What can you tell them? That not only are you honoring and defending the Prespecies Agreement, but you will also take them to their area. So you found the solution: new structures and new prisons on the islands. So you recently announced the program for new closed structures in Kos, Lero and Samos. Tell us where you intend to reach the tonnage on these islands? Have you informed the inhabitants and operators on these islands of the increase in seats? Because I am learning that your officials are going to the islands, Minister, and instead of meeting the mayor, they are hiding and meeting with party actors to show them where the space is. If you had good intentions, would you hide? Really, what are you going to do there and budget 133 million from the national public investment programme? Closed centers and explosive status. It is obvious that this huge sum is disproportionate to the positions you have announced. There's a couple of things going on. You either overcompensated the project or you intend to do even greater structures than the ones you have announced. That is why we have asked you for the studies. You need to give them up, so everyone can know what you're up to. You are telling us that you are more effective in protecting the maritime borders. I do not want to comment on any of the innumerable videos that are currently on the Internet and show practices that are inconsistent with international law. Can you explain to us what an active deterrent means? What's that new term you're invoking? Is it a covered term for push - backs. Because you know that push - backs are inconsistent with international law. Or is it an active deterrent that Mr Stefanis told us and spent 500,000 euros for 2.8 km? Do you know how ridiculous and at the same time dangerous it is for the coastline and search and rescue operations? However, you flew by direct assignment of half a million public money to satisfy your extreme right-wing fantasies of executives. However, I would like to say that you must protect people's lives at sea, as the Port Authority and its staff have done for years now. The executives who have been awarded a prize for their humanitarian action and have saved hundreds of thousands of lives at sea. Ladies and gentlemen, islanders who have been practicing all these years prove their solidarity and sensitivity to refugees and immigrants see these people living in terrible conditions, according to the records of international organisations. They see, however, the health structures of their islands, even under these conditions of the coronary, not being managed by local economies to sink into the recession. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Gentlemen of the Government, your term of office will be recorded in the darkest colours in the history of the islands and the refugee. One thing to be sure of. What angers islanders is not refugees and immigrants themselves. It is the fact that you have not implemented any substantial measures to support workers and small and medium-sized enterprises on the islands. It is that you treat the islands as if it were the "black hole" of Greece. Your policy eliminates the islands and condemns the social and economic cohesion of the islands in decline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u133	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Michaelides has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u134	Minister, you will allow me to make a few initial remarks on health policies concerning asylum seekers and immigrants, particularly those living in the FYROM. During our administration, we have encountered difficulties and certainly there have been weaknesses and shortcomings. The main problem with your own policy, however, is that all your treatment for refugee and, in particular, its sanitary arm gives rise to a conscious policy of indifference and even analgesia fuelled by specific ideological features, which closes the eye to your electorate. You are trying to keep the minimum pretexts, while sending a coded signal that it is not of particular importance to the health protection of these people and that other priorities exist, that is to say, to prevent flows from legal or non-legal means and to make the lives of people entering the country difficult. Thus, the formation and staffing of sanitary units outside the islands' Cyts, in order to examine, for example, suspected cases or to isolate patients, is a monument of suffocation and analgesia. At the moment, there is virtually no coverage of the CSTs, which is unacceptable. I ask you directly if the CIVID -19 in Chios, at the Vial CYT, exists with a doctor. In addition, the increase of staff in hospitals on the islands hosting a CYT and which are under increased pressure from the presence of tens of thousands of people, who have chosen to capture there, is until today from a non-existent to a minimum. The current situation is tragic. I urge you, Minister, to visit Vial, to see the misery that prevails. People live between rodents and tons of garbage. This sanitation is 'armed' and threatens not only these people but also the workers in the FYROM and, in fact, the whole island. Despite the efforts of the municipality, misery inside and outside the CYT is a reality. Incidentally, the requests submitted by the residents since the end of 2019 have not yet been answered by your Ministry. The requirements of 2020, from what the mayor has informed us, have not even been accepted by your ministry's services. With regard to your election promises to close the VIAL, what is currently happening is, in fact, expanding it with wooden structures, as the local media made known yesterday and the day before yesterday. One final comment. Your policy exposes the country every day. International organisations, such as the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, the International Organisation for Migration and other organisations, are inaugurating you and asking for explanations of the unprecedented practices you are implementing. The Community institutions seem to refuse to fund over-structures, as you are planning them, and so you are looking for funds from public investment. Recently, you have taken coldness from the Council of Europe, from the committee responsible, on how to draw up the NGO register that your Ministry makes. I am sorry, but you have been exploring the country every day, not only in Europe, but also in the international community, to sum up, unfortunately, your policy with the policies of Orban and Salvini.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u135	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a year has passed since the government of Mr Mitsotakis took over the country. A year of governance, marked by substantial reforms in the functioning of the state and deep areas to improve the everyday life of all Greeks. A year, characterised by the efficient management of successive crises, which could have dangerous implications, both for our sovereign rights and for public health. And I am referring to the increased migration flows of 2019, the asymmetrical threat to our borders since March 2020, the koron virus pandemic that has been a great challenge to both migration and structures. I have heard today a strong criticism of the Qualified Opposition. Mr Psychoyote, you should be aware that I am always present in parliamentary control and always, with great pleasure, I am immediately answering any question or question. I will respond specifically to your criticism today. You spoke with screams. I will respond with figures and figures, precisely to learn from the Greek people, as you said in your prototype, exactly what is happening. I will largely avoid the easy comparison with your own actions in migration, which will haunt you as an exception in the conscience of the Greek people, such as the open borders policy, the loss of human life at sea, the creation of dozens of structures throughout the country and on mainland Greece and our islands, the 2016 Joint Declaration, which led to the congestion of our islands with the geographical limitation it had. Today, however, we can discuss the results of the balanced immigration policy pursued by the current government. First of all, we have set two clear strategic objectives from the start. Firstly, the substantial reduction in migration flows, which we are all experiencing in a clear way. Secondly, the drastic reduction in the impact of the migration crisis on local communities. We show practical gratitude to local communities and do so now institutionalised, without demanding pressure from the House and the Minister concerned. Do you remember, Mr. Muzala, what have we been through in this Chamber to give Chios, Challenge and Souda the allowances they have been entitled to? Today the municipalities have already received EUR 12.3 million from the beginning of 2020, and within July the fees for the second quarter of 2020 come to be paid and the compensation for the residents for 2019, which by our law now is the responsibility of the local government, the municipality, which is best aware of local events and the Ministry comes and finances the sums required. In addition, we have also created the Solidarity Fund. It started with 25m euros to finance infrastructure projects in municipalities that are actively involved in the hosting system of the country. Migration municipalities are not feeling and are no longer alone. The question is clear, ladies and gentlemen. Do we agree with the targets, yes or no? Because the SYRIZA MPs' prototypes seem to concern you with reducing flows or hearing general theories, such as Mr Vitsa's view of how to solve all global problems so that there are no flows in our country. Does it also bother you that we didn't fill the country with structures? Because they are your works and days, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, who turned Greece into a vast hot spot. In particular, in our country we have thirty-two hosting structures in mainland Greece. Of the thirty-two, thirty-one is a SYRIZA creation. As are the FYROMs on our islands that you left to remember you. So what do you propose today? Are you suggesting endless flows in endless structures? Let us talk about today and talk about it, however, as we presented it this morning in the Ministry's monthly bulletin, which I will also submit to the National Representation. It's changing the image of migratory. We're regaining control. In the first half of 2020 we had a 51% reduction in the islands and 46% reduction in the country as a whole. In the second quarter of 2020, we had a 92% reduction. Flow reduction is not achieved with wishes. It is achieved through strong border guarding, with very positive results following the decision of the CSCE under the presidency of the Prime Minister on 1 March. We upgraded surveillance of our country's sea and land borders. We have made it clear in all respects that Greece will no longer be a wishing destination for illegally entering economic migrants. We have borders and we know how to guard them! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Our country, ladies and gentlemen, has obligations under international law. It also has rights under international law and has the right to protect its borders. We will never be Europe's back door, as happened in 2015. And at this point I would like to say a very big thank you to the men and women of the Armed Forces and to the security forces of the port and police who, in their own interests, seek daily at sea and at land, whose efforts you are undermining, by adopting the rhetoric of supposedly illegal regressions. And I must warn you that, unfortunately, you are becoming increasingly disastrous in positions that are harmful to the country, which do not correspond to reality. After all, the constant vigilance of the Port also has a humanitarian dimension to protect human life at sea. The fewer boats there are in the Aegean Sea, the fewer lives in danger, and in 2020 we lost a human life, unpleasant but in relation to the previous years - I do not need to mention the table - is a very small number. As far as asylum decisions are concerned. In the first half of the year - as the European Commissioner said a few minutes ago at the meeting of the European Parliament's Committee on Home Affairs - our country adopted forty-six thousand decisions, i.e. an increase of 88% over the first half of 2019 and a reduction in the pending asylum decisions. We are particularly concerned about the separation of refugees from illegally entering economic immigrants. And nowadays, we have a balanced immigration policy. We are faithfully and with full respect for asylum procedures, as provided for in International Law, but at the same time we move towards returns and expulsions of those who are not entitled to international protection. And we make it much faster, just so our islands don't become soul storerooms. It is the quick asylum procedures that lead to the decongestion of our islands. And since we're talking about decongestion, let's see numbers, because the theories are good, but here we're here to talk with evidence. From 1-1-2020 our islands were decommissioned by 23%. A total of 4% of the country's structures were decongested. The asylum seekers have now been reduced. With regard to transport from our islands: Seventeen thousand refugees and immigrants moved in the first half of 2020, while seven thousand two hundred were moved to SYRIZA during the same period. So nowadays decongestion has accelerated by 134%. So decongestion is taking place. But listen to the big difference, ladies and gentlemen. It is done without filling the whole country with new structures, such as, in fact, you and KINAL. And I am surprised that you are swinging the finger for the KYTs, these centers, which are mostly monuments of analgesia that SYRIZA inherited on our islands. You left them there to remember, not only us but also the local communities, who was, in fact, the humanism of the Left, and of course the policy to speed up the adoption of asylum decisions leads, on the one hand, to the possibility of increasing returns and, on the other, to the need to strengthen integration policies for which I am going to speak. Of course you know that the government, by applying international law, has made a drastic reduction in benefits to asylum seekers and migrants by limiting the time of payment of benefits and accommodation to those who are no longer asylum seekers. In other words, we pay back European funds, hospitality structures and the ESTIA programme to the real beneficiaries. And our state is denying the logic of lifelong benefits, destabilising recognised refugees and treating them on equal terms. However, we expect both refugees and asylum seekers, as stated in International Law, to respect the laws and institutions of the Greek state. What I do not understand is how the Party of Officers is taking part in a rally - and I will also present the SYRIZA's invitation to this event - with shepherds for the deportation of the Prime Minister and the expulsion of the responsible minister. Do you share such anti-democratic views? You have also judged us on the EXIT programme. Let me remind you, Mr Vitsa, that you have implemented the first "EXIT" programme in 2019 and even twice, and you have rightly done so, we do not disagree! But it is hypocritical that you come and criticize us today. You criticise the program "HELIOS", which operates since August 2019, contributes to integration and housing and is a programme that is constantly improving, while you launched exits from structures in 2019, without incorporation program at that time. Today the HELIOS programme offers opportunities to the holders of international protection and to the few, a hundred forty-five yesterday, according to the police, found in Victoria Square, these possibilities are being given. I would like to stress that since 1 January 2020, fourteen thousand recognised refugees or non-justifiable international protection have come out of hospitality structures in our country and you are focusing on hundreds of fifty-five people. Of course, the peculiarity of the last few days is that every day the service of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum was in the square and offered these people temporary housing solutions. These people were trained by those in the square - and arrests have been made - refusing to leave and considered their right to take over the square. I would like you to answer if you consider that their right to take over the square. The reality is that they have access to the HELIOS programme, i.e. to help find a home, to subsidise and to initial expenses and to rent for a period of time, to learn languages and skills and to help find work. That's what it is to work for those who want to stay in our country. Mr. Burnus referred to travel documents. The law has changed for a month and the process of issuing travel documents is much easier. Also, recognised refugees, as you know, have equal access to the social state, the OPECA and the OAED. That is, we are implementing a policy of non-discrimination, as one would expect from a modern European state. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot make a special reference to dealing with the first phase of the pandemic. We all remember your pitiful predictions, your destruction in and out of the Chamber. We took immediate measures, took the right measures in the right time. Result: zero cases in the five islands, two hundred and twenty cases across the country, 0,2% of asylum seekers and most importantly, zero loss of human life in immigration. There are the sanitary structures on the islands, which were financed by the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum, to support structures and support local communities, without giving any extra weight, as I think - I think - Mr Michaelides wanted in the local hospitals. Next objective is the operation of the closed controlled structures on the islands, starting in 2020 from Samos, Kos, Lero and Malakasa and a number of additional centres on mainland Greece, which will be financed entirely by the European Union, under the EMAS programme, have been declared by the Ministry in the co-financed code of the Public Investment Programme. Those of you who have exercised public authority know how the public accountancy works. First they enter the co-funded person's code, this technical bulletin goes to the European Union and then about one, two months later the answer comes and the programme is transferred to EMAS. The President of the European Commission has already specifically mentioned the amount of funding available to Greece for these new centres. So I assure you, in order not to be anxious and anxious, that there is no problem in financing these projects. Structures to guarantee the security of both resident and local communities. Structures that will speed up the already ongoing decongestion of the islands and for which there has been a systematic dialogue with the mayors and republics, especially in Kos and Lero, which Mr Santorinios asked us about. Yes, we need to change the situation on the islands. Mr Burnus and Mr Michaelides have been mentioned. They were on the way against the closure of the Vial, they were on the way to the closure of Moria, those you said a moment ago in your speech as extremists, protested not to close the BIAL, not to close the Moria, not to become the new structures, which would also have controlled entry and exit systems and safe fences, so as to create a sense of security for both the resident and the local communities.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u138	The next objective is also the return of those who are not entitled to international protection, because you in four years hardly did just a thousand eight hundred returns. And for us returns are the country's main objective, but also the question of negotiating the new European immigration regulation. Next target digital transformation. Already in June, the new digital portal, which offers the possibility of self-registration, liberating some twenty thousand working hours, changing data, reducing the need for a visit to regional offices and seeking social security numbers. Very briefly we resolve the issue of VAT and the next objective is the possibility of obtaining a bank account, which Mr Muzalas said but no one had any asylum seekers in practice. And during this difficult six-month period, we completed the administrative upgrading of the Ministry, and within the month we table the new establishment plan as a presidential decree. For this overall policy on immigration we have been praised by the European Commissioner, Mrs Johanson, for the very great progress that has been made in the last six months in Greece, and for the successful completion of critical competitive procedures for solving chronic problems in immigration we have received in writing the credit of the European Commission, by letter from Mrs Parit, the Director-General for Immigration and Home Affairs, which I shall present in the Minutes. There is now a visible progress in managing immigration. I would now like to present to you actions concerning greater transparency, expenditure reduction and rationalisation. We are leaving the emergency status introduced by SYRIZA in 2016, and we are now forming framework agreements as early as this year, which adopt the best practices of the European Commission. But where urgent procedures were needed, for example in the construction of structures, we have achieved a significant reduction in costs, in relation to comparable projects in your own period, reductions in the amount of 23% in projects to be financed by the European Union. Our strategy, the signing of multiannual agreements - framework agreements with open international procedures - will ensure cost reduction and absolute transparency and the provision of necessary services to all the infrastructures of the Ministry that we have already completed, after having published in the Official Journal of the European Union the procedure for the first agreement - the four-year framework agreement on health and cleanliness services at all premises of the Asylum Office for EUR 6.3 million. And they are directly following open European competitions - framework for feeding, keeping, maintenance, cleansing all structures, for them to be implemented from 2021 - what I said in the previous bill, that the extraordinary procedures have come to an end - and we have completed the competitive procedures for the transport of residents from the islands to mainland Greece and the interpretation contracts. The travel contest for SYRIZA provided for ten thousand people to be transported at a cost of 2.2 million, we with the May competition, which was completed, secured thirty thousand movements with 2 million, that is, a 70% reduction, and completed the interpretation contract after a year and a half of a process. We are taking over this year's control of the ESTIA programme and since 2020-2021 the ESTIA provides money, working with the CEDEFOP as a key interlocutor and aiming at reducing the cost of at least 6% for those living in apartments and 9% for those living in buildings. We have achieved this in a ministry where you gave 82% of European funding directly to international organisations and non-governmental organisations. And because Mr Burnus referred to specific expenditure, already under the Rules of Procedure of the House, your party is informed, I imagine if you have any matter I would have known. Let us go to the last two issues and ask for your tolerance, Madam President, for a minute. You are accusing us of appointing poster, especially the Technical Service and the Legal Support Department. I have already replied to you that, on your day, there was only one permanent university engineer at the Ministry and only two officials with the expertise of the Department of Law. In other words, two lawyers for twelve posts and two engineers for fourteen. So you claim there was a Ministry of Migration Policy? Of course, to blame SYRIZA for poster appointments with a specific period of time - because these positions expire on December 31, 2021 - is at least hypocritical. Do you know the Act of Ministerial Council No 2 on 23 January 2017? Title: ‘Increase the uniform positions of special advisers - special associates, posted officials and officials by posting to the political office of the Minister for Migration Policy’. He met the Ministerial Council, and in practice he gives you more posters, more counsellor positions, more posted posts. And I have tabled in the Minutes the relevant act of the Ministerial Council in which, I am passing away, asked and took further positions and Mr. Nikos Pappas was also present to meet the needs of his own office. Therefore, instead of strengthening the structures of the Ministry, you have made sure that you strengthen the "logues" of the Minister concerned. It is at least hypocritical that you come here today and talk about posters, you who have also created a posted Special Secretary to manage the European Union's programmes with Article 75 of Law No.4375/2016. We are now promulgating an AAP competition to cover permanent posts at the Ministry, according to the new organization of the Ministry. Ladies and gentlemen, the picture is changing. We're regaining control of immigration. We have successfully faced the challenges of the first half of the year in a climate of emergency, and now we are moving towards the completion of the plan. Now we're talking numbers, we're talking evidence. We're talking about results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u139	Madam President, may I ask the Minister a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Comrade, not right now. I thank the Minister for Immigration and Asylum Mr Mitarakis. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. George Kamine, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u141	Madam President, do I even have two minutes of dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Comrade, you don't. You've exceeded your time. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u143	I'm just asking. I wanted to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u144	Unfortunately, you overcompensated your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u145	Ask a timely question, Mr Colleague, and I will come and answer you. You know I always come.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u146	I would like to give Mr Vitsa my dentistry, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u147	The Rules of Procedure have a specific procedure, Mr Colleague. You can't do that. These concessions cannot be made under the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we are actually closing today from the elections on 7 July 2019. We have been close a year since Mr Mitsotakis in Samos concluded what he had called - if I am not mistaken - a 'price contract' with the Samiottans and hence the islands, that within a very short period the islands would be dismantled. Now, or conscientiously, the Prime Minister deceived the islanders, which I do not want to believe, or is also proof that before you even came to power you had a completely wrong impression on the refugee - immigration, which you continued to verify - I mean the wrong one - throughout your term of office and I fear you will continue again. We have only learned today that this famous coordinator, which you have introduced, remains in force. Who is it? Who's coordinating? Is he coordinating you with your State Secretary? What's the coordinator doing since you made a ministry? The coordinator was supposed to exist because there was no Ministry. What's the coordinator coordinating? And this comes to an end, of course, of the recurring old age, where, having underestimated the importance of the refugee - immigration - you started with the Deputy Minister to take over it, we then went to the coordinator, and then went to the juvenile coordinators, so that you panicked eventually come to build a ministry, a ministry now you intend to continue to run it with posters. Aren't you telling me, this staff notice is about a few hundred you're going to hire? Through S.H.I.E.L.D.? Yeah, what's that? The SAP, which you will make the notice and will within one week have to make a statement? Otherwise, silencer of the AAP, will you hire them? Is that it? To know how these people will be hired. SYRIZA, with today's topical question, summarises some basic questions, questions we have repeatedly raised all these months. I will also add two points, unreservedness and opacity to the choices of the host administrations in mainland Greece and to the derogating public contracts that you have entered into. And I'm waiting to see what we're gonna hear about the staffing of your ministry. Indeed, in 2015-2016 and then, unfortunately, for the first time, we had a refugee wave and you should have been taught, you finally accepted far fewer refugees and immigrants during your term of office and the Greek state had gained experience. But the experience you have gained has been thrown into the trash, because you prefer, as we have said, the policy of postermen who come and leave with the ministers. Experience in the public administration stores it and translates it to the next, the traditional public administration. Now let's see what's going on. First of all, how many returns have you made lately and how many deportations? No deportations to Albania, returns and deportations to the countries from which the overwhelming volume of refugees and immigrants is actually coming, rather of asylum seekers and immigrants. And how come you haven't succeeded in these hundred and fifty of Viktoria Square in this story to put an end? We have dealt with the matter. How did we deal with it? Giveing space, space to house people with dignity and space so that we can alleviate the citizens of Athens and especially Viktoria Square, from what was happening. And we made a brave decision at that time, because we gave up three times the space to olive grove. And because it had to be done quickly and because it was summer and because it could not be convened by a municipal council, I personally took the initiative, and that is why I have also been sued by Golden Dawn. I couldn't wait a summer to call a city council. Are we going to keep chasing our tail every three days in Victoria Square? Are you going to continue with these people? First of all, you took them to olive grove and put tents, now you're transferring them to Elefsina. What's gonna happen? What are you gonna do? Will these people come and from the tents of Moria where they were located, will you continue to take them to different places in Athens? Until then, until we see the horizon cleared out internationally in the refugee sector, we have to correct reality in our country. We knew what was happening in Moria, and we knew the situation that existed for years. I read in Sunday's "Kathimerini" the account of Bernard - Henri Levi and I honestly tell you, while I knew it, my heart broke. How many juvenile suicides have there been in Moria? This is a matter no longer for any impression. It's something that offends the country deeply. It is something that runs counter to the humanism of the Greeks. It's something that offends our culture. A philosopher of this caliber is not allowed to come to the country and to expose us internationally in this way. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Janakopoulos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Metarakis, I have listened very carefully. You said incredible things in your speech and inconceivably. I have said recently that this practice of all the ministers of the New Democracy have been admiring yourself, whether it concerns economic issues, whether it concerns employment issues or the refugee issues, will not get you any good. It shows an incredible arrogance of power and a complete, absolute mismatch with social reality, what people say outside. And I wonder, Mr Mitaraki, whether this choice of self- admiration is conscious in the context of a propaganda strategy, which, of course, also rises up next to the media that you have dedicatedly financed in opaque terms or if you believe it. I cannot conclude which is worse, namely to be a propaganda or to believe your own propaganda. You said you'd respond with evidence to our supposed screams. You have not responded to any of the issues that we raised with our question, but also with our speeches, which have been sufficiently analysed by the members of the SYRIZA. I won't insist much. I'll dial. You did not answer for the decongestion of the islands. All you have done was violate basic rules of logic. That's what Mr. Vitsats wanted to ask you earlier. If things have as you described them, then how is it possible for you to receive the islands with seventeen thousand people - refugees and immigrants - and today it is thirty-three thousand? Do you not understand that this is contrary to the basic rules of logic? It's irrational. It's paradoxical. How is it possible, if all you said is true, when you took up Lesbos having six thousand five hundred, seven thousand people and today having seventeen thousand five hundred? How is that possible? You have not responded to the lack of social care for people who have received protection status. You did not answer the 65% increase in unaccompanied minors on the islands. Mr Mitaraki, you spoke of transparency and you did not say a word about the 4.4 million directly assigned to the Malakasa concentration camp, as well as about the 3.7 million of the direct delegation to the Key. Let's not talk about the rest of the direct assignments, about the transcripts, 18,000, 20,000 or the transcript. Who's memorizing with 20,000, Mr. Mitaraki? Are you going to tell us? We're waiting for you to tell us. You did not tell us how it is possible that you have received asylum applications at 70,000 and in December it was 105 000. How is that possible? And you come here to mislead what you're doing? Compare the current situation after the coronary crisis, with what you created in December and you say, "Look at what has been done, we reduced them in relation to December that we were again ruling." Is it possible for these things to be an elementary argument? Now what can I continue to say in relation to the examples and the revolts of your policy? Can I tell you about your administrative relics? We asked you: does the national coordinator for the refugee problem still exist? What's he doing? The coordinator for the unaccompanied minors where is he? Is she okay? Is she continuing her work? Can I talk about the abolition of AMCA, about the indifference to the health coverage of immigrants and refugees? You should do a self-criticism for the inconceivable hypocrisy of the opposition version of the New Democracy, which was talking about the truly difficult situation in Moria. Today what should your opposition self say, Mr Mitarakis, about Moria? From five thousand to fifteen thousand. What should your opposition self say? What was Mr. Mitsotakis supposed to do? Did he have to come here to show us pictures today from Moria, what is it, as he did when it was Antipopulation, that you've made it more trivial? We never said it was an easy situation. You, however, have succeeded in so-called humanism, at the same time that you cultivated hatred and nationalism in society and instead of coming here to make self-criticism about what you were saying two years ago, you reiterated the misery about allegedly buying doors opened by SYRIZA in 2015. But what's going on? Is the refugee issue geopolitical? Is it SYRIZA's problem, as Mr Kumucascus said, by fully transforming your opposition tactic? Was it SYRIZA's fault? Wasn't it SYRIZA's fault? All these contradictions are real contradictions in your policy. You have also not told us about the abolition of the ESTIA and Philoxenia programmes. But I'm getting to the majors. Faced with Erdogan's refugee work, what did you and the Government of New Democracy confront you, Mr Mitaraki? International law? An attempt, a political choice to internationalise the problem, to create conditions for another policy in Europe? I have no doubt that a political battle is taking place in Europe at the moment. There are powers - such as Orban, Mr Mitsotakis, Mr Kurts - which have a specific view of migration and refugee. They believe that the host countries should be Europe's 'wielding', they do not want relocations, they do not want anything. So instead of taking the opportunity for diplomatic reasons too, but also for profoundly political and humanitarian reasons, to compare another policy when the Turkish President chose to work on immigration - refugee, what did you do? As a mirror, you went to work on it, too. Hybrid war? Hybrid war, Mr. Metarakis? With who? Who's the enemy in the hybrid war? Who is the enemy in this hybrid war? The unarmed and unprotected people? Three million seven hundred thousand exist in Turkey at the moment. How are we going to deal with this? Are we going to deal with it with humanity both with European and international policy or with hybrid war? A tooling for why? To create a new wave of nationalist excitement and fuel your political popularity, knowing that you are leading things to a dead end. What's all this? What is the cohesion of this policy, these political choices? The doctrine of impossible prevention. The doctrine of the transformation of the country, as Orban and Kurts and the Visegrad countries want, into a shield of Europe. And what is that doctrine? His slogan is the biopolitical option: impoverish, imprison, beat, claw, drown, not to come. This is the political choice of the New Democracy. He's told her with great clarity in unsuspecting time, Mr. Plearis. You're the one who's making it happen. Suspension of asylum by violating international conventions in a way that no other European country has thought of doing so by violating the country's obligations under international law. Retreat: Really, Mr. Metarakis, may I ask you something? What do you have to say about the complaint by Danus Genz Mueller, the head of the rescue operation off Kos? Thirty-three refugees were rescued then, and the Danish official of FRONTEX and head of the rescue operation said he was commanded by the Greek leader to put them back on the boat and return them to Turkey and refused to do so. What do you answer that? Do you know the complaint? You don't know her. It's public. Let me send it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u151	And that's propaganda!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u152	Amnesia. He doesn't remember.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u153	This is only one example, to tell you that you want to broaden this policy and with the exception requested by Mr Kumoucasos. Exclusion clause? From the forced rules of international law, which you are supposed to respect, namely the ban on re-imports. Let me tell you something else. Because you have also referred to Mrs Johansson, whom you have heard only five minutes from what I understood at the teleconferencing conference, do you know, Mr Mitarakis, how much congratulations Mrs Johansson, the European Commissioner, has given you that she has expressed concerns about the relaunches in Greece? You don't know that. Your partners didn't inform you. So learn it. Also, do you know that he clearly stated that all complaints about re-processes should be investigated? You guys stayed in the congratulations? These are very serious things, Mr Metarakis. It's not funny, it's not funny. It's not for you to play. Well, you have to understand that this policy is not only disgusting, it is not just outside the democratic and humanitarian tradition of Europe and Greece, but it is also completely ineffective. This extreme right-wing policy, which you are implementing, makes things worse, fuels social conflicts, destroys local communities, impoverishes both refugees and refugee populations and cultivates an ideology of extreme nationalisticism, which you will find in front of you, Mr Mitarakis. The whole democratic political system will find it in front of it. Because with what you say, we can save it one month, two months, three months, but refugee and immigration are an issue that, if you like, will be one of the most critical policy areas and policy areas in Europe and in the world in the 21st century. And with the "trampisms" you cannot face these enormous challenges of the 21st century. I would draw your attention. You are creating a situation that can become uncontrolled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Christos Boukokos, has the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a discreet difference in the issue we are discussing today between the New Democracy and SYRIZA. SYRIZA is of the concept "all freely in refugee". The New Democracy is a conception - which it has also in the run-up to the Greek people, but which it has very much announced - which is that the refugee is an issue for which the Greek state must have control, it must know what is happening. I understand, ladies and gentlemen, that refugee is a totem issue for you, it is a political totem. This gives you neither moral advantage nor any priority. But above all, it does not give you the right management and the policies that you have implemented, and we do, because politics is also a matter of effect. We do not, of course, remove you from political humanity, solidarity and all the principles you call for. You do not, however, have the right, because of the historical facts and the historical experience that has already created this issue, to try to remove those values of humanism, solidarity and assistance from us. And I'll explain immediately what I want to say. Is the picture good today in Moria, Samos and Chios? No, it's not an image that pleases us. However, ladies and gentlemen, when you took over in 2015, in Lesvos and Chios there were two structures hosting between a hundred and a hundred fifty people. Aren't you the ones who handed over these hellholes, as you call them today, to the next government? Aren't you who created the structures of the four, five, six, seven, ten thousand people? Aren't you the ones who inaugurated this policy? I am pleased that colleagues who have served in critical positions and in the main ministries are here today accepting that our neighbours are working on immigration in many. And I'm talking about a particular neighbor. Are you trying to tell us that by changing the government of the country, the neighbours have worked on this issue and opened the canne by increasing the flow of flows in the face of a new government, in their efforts to promote their policies, strengthen their position and, if possible, even manipulate the new Greek Government? I think we all agree on this issue, out loud or silent. The epitome, if you like, the culmination of this operation was seen in November 2020 at our land borders. And when we say 'hybrid war', we mean their efforts to counteract this issue. Of course we are not fighting refugees. But does the ultimate work on such a issue not have such features, the characteristics of an unprecedented attempt by Mr Erdogan to promote his policies, his positions and his strength in Europe through Greece? I, from the positions I have embodied here, see that we are in agreement on this issue. Has the refugee been treated? No, it hasn't been dealt with. But I have heard the Minister for Immigration and Asylum, Mr Mitarakis, presenting very specific figures today. We had this outbreak in 2019. But we have a decrease in population compared to the end of 2019. Once we had this explosion in the first half of the new governance, a policy is now being implemented. We have an increase in the transport of immigrants from the islands by 134% and accelerating asylum procedures by 88%. So, what does SYRIZA think? That we incorporate these people, leaving them to wait two and three years in these centres that you characterize as hellholes? Is that what you think? Comparison is catalytic in reducing numbers, because the policy that was designed and for which the Greek people were informed is now being implemented. We are not talking today about closed centres. We didn't come back. It was a policy appealed by the New Democracy before the Greek people gave it the mandate. The closed centres will be organized and with better structures and cards for entering and leaving these people. It's evidence you're ignoring. Obviously, you prefer 'Mories'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In two minutes' time, Madam President. And what did your policy do? Because there's not just Moria, Chios and Samos. 'Everything freely.' I do not want to invoke statements that they disappear from the squares, because a lot of talk has been made today about Victoria Square. I would like to remind you that it was your policy that created the disgrace of Idomen when people have been sleeping on the train lines for months. It was your policy that frightened Europe and forced it to raise fortresses at its borders and to get all these people trapped here. Does the story of the refugee start today, when the New Democracy is giving up a year in power? A good colleague from SYRIZA said that New Democracy MPs in 2018 tabled a similar question and that is, indeed, so. They asked such a question, but if you had managed the refugee with the results we have been aware of for three and a half years and not for nine months and a new government. I think that this alone is a size class, which brings your anxiety to the surface, not to work on the refugee, but to exert an opposition that, however, is not based on real elements. Because Mr. Mateatakis gave it to you. The data are also catalytic both in the speed of examining asylum applications and in the transportation from the islands and in the reduction of flows in particular. Because, yes, gentlemen, we are saying that Greece has borders and no matter what the rest of Europe says and how much it supports us, we are obliged to guard these Thermopylae, the borders and the land and the sea borders. And that was our policy known to the Greek people. We didn't surprise anyone. Unless you accept the Greek people's decision to make Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Government of New Democracy, so you are assisting in rallying with central slogans "to make extermination to the Prime Minister, to make extermination to the Minister". Anyone can accuse their political opponent of ideologies in this matter. We do not accept that any economic immigrant can without the country's permission to violate its borders. We're talking about refugees. It is in the interests of the refugees to consider asylum applications as soon as possible. And today's Prime Minister, the current government and the current leadership of the Ministry of Migration Policy, does this very thing: He does not capture people in human soul prisons. He looks at their demands very quickly now, which will become even faster, as the Minister explained, with the administration of the Ministry and the staffing of structures. I think next year we will be discussing very different sizes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u156	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Konnakka, now has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Madam President. The inhuman and deadlocked policy applied to refugee is the most revealing picture of capitalist barbarism. Its birth is war, impoverishment and refugee, but it is also barbarism that imposes caging, greater repression, the violation of fundamental rights stemming from international law, from the Geneva Convention on Refugees, and even from the very human status of all these devastated people, who are stacked in the Moria hellery, the existence and functioning of which none of you disputes. Nobody's talking about closing them. You've been competing so long - and it's really challenging - about who's exceeded the size of barbarism. Is there really a tolerable size in barbarity? Of course it goes very well, Minister, and it is challenging to blame the islanders who opposed your plans for maintaining the concentration camps on the islands, for maintaining the conditions of caging, for perpetuating this barbarism. And you didn't find a single word to say, a word about the way you treated them, sending an occupation army to face their reaction. You have not found a single word to say, because, in fact, you are today saying that you are going to perpetuate caging and not move on to what you are supposed to do to the islanders, the massive decapitation of all refugees and migrants. And then you punished them, maintaining dangerous conditions, in the midst, indeed pandemic, if you like, and the common feeling of everyone when you are talking about great success in managing the health crisis today. I call on you, if you are not aware of what exists, to see the situation and how the enormous health shortages have been addressed. I don't know if you're talking about dealing with health shortages, you mean the three EGE doctors who worked in the middle of a pandemic. The shortcomings and weaknesses are enormous and are also present in the public health system of the islands and are not addressed. There are issues relating to the health and life of all, including refugees, but also to public health as a whole. Today's debate is very limited to the issues of refugee management. We have said on several occasions that neither the fundamental relief of the problem, both for refugees and asylum seekers, nor for the inhabitants themselves, who are suffering from the situation you have created and will suffer even more with the measures that the government is planning and implementing, can there be no conflict with the European Union's policy, without conflict with the imperialist alliances, with the interventions that create and perpetuate the problem. You hide that it is the situation that is first of all because these decisions of the European Union are being implemented. Because the European Union's unacceptable agreement with Turkey, with mass caging on the islands, is in force, as is the Dublin Regulation which considers the first-line countries, like Greece, to be automatically responsible for asylum seekers, banning so-called'secondary movements' in other European Union countries. This is not a derogation from European law. That's normality. It is the permanent profile of so-called European solidarity, which is now expressed in its most repressive expression: it sends, that is, as country support, the forces of repression to control, supposedly, entry and control, the European borders, creating even greater risks for the inhabitants of the region. The policy of caging, repression, restriction of rights is the European Union's policy that neither New Democracy nor SYRIZA disputes either. It is the same policy that, by variations, both serve and serve. And in order to use your own language, not because we agree with the essence, I should like to say that you both have an ideological obsession with the'strategic agreement', as we call it, with the European Union, with the imperialist alliances of your class and which are at the expense of the interests and the Greek people, as well as the refugees and immigrants. It is true that the Government of New Democracy has been constantly moving on to more repressive, more reactionary measures both by circumventing a number of rights and moving towards more dangerous border deterrence measures, such as the murderous floating dam that in recent days you have announced that you want to place north of Lesbos and, of course, the absolutely condemnable ones and who have to investigate complaints that are constantly growing for pushbacks and push back, especially when there are government officials who officially adopt them. The reports by the Government, which have been repeated recently and by the mouth of Mr Kumucaku, on a derogation from international law and a flexibility clause in the event of exceptional circumstances, have this very objective, namely to legalise the abolition of all the rights left to asylum seekers. We are really looking, but there is not one of the unacceptable measures currently being implemented by the New Democracy, which has not been on the road that SYRIZA has previously drawn in implementing this policy of the European Union. Even for this lousy measure of the discrimination of minors over and above the 15 years that the New Democracy has voted, the road with regulation of the SYRIZA has been opened for the commission of unaccompanied people providing for the placement of semi-autonomous living structures for children over sixteen to eighteen years, institutionalising a substantially reduced protection for minors in this category. Of course we must abolish the unacceptable provisions that effectively abolish the incapacity for children over 15 years old, which is the majority of unaccompanied minors in our country. No child should be in prisons, in terrible camps, in detention and out of school. Of course, this right to family reunification, which is entitled to almost 50% of unaccompanied minors, arbitrary and illegally, is not applied by the other Member States of the European Union, of course, in conjunction with unacceptable delay procedures and the various abuses. This is not a new phenomenon, of course. Even when so-called European solidarity was at its root, any reunifications were dropping in the ocean. Even though this inconceivable barbarity of extermination by the government of thousands of asylumed refugees, the interruption of this minimum allowance to survive, in fact by keeping the hostages and prisoners in Greece, is not the worst version of the similar arrangement adopted by SYRIZA for their exodus in the six months? The HLIOS programme was inadequate on paper at the time, and of course it remains on paper, and it is not enough today, Minister. Stop putting the blame on the refugees because they do not apply and do not follow the procedures. For all these people, a roof has to be found here and now with the use of the districts of closed hotels and buildings that belong to the public, ensuring all health and hygiene conditions. Measures of substantial and personalised support must be taken to integrate them into society with measures to be taken and to integrate all children into the structures of education. The conditions of the pandemic have shown more intense problems and inequality in the access of refugees and asylum seekers to life and education. The government must now take steps ahead of September to ensure that all the necessary educational structures are in place so that no child stays outside the structures.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u158	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u159	I shall conclude, Madam President. We once again call on all the laws and decisions that are taken over time and which violate the rights of refugees and asylum seekers, the measures taken in the name of the so-called acceleration and have effectively led to proceedings - parody, of course, as well as the unacceptable non-scientific invention of the legislation of the New Democracy, which actually turns all asylum seekers into immigrants. To abolish the Dublin Regulation and the European Union Agreement, to close all hot spots on the islands and to facilitate the movement of asylum seekers in their countries of actual destination. We are calling for decent and in line with the health and hygiene rules and hospitality conditions for asylum seekers and, of course, for facilitating the release of all these people. A measure necessary to address the problems they cause is to enable asylum applications to be lodged in the territory of Turkey under the responsibility of the European Union and the UN, and from there to move directly to their countries of destination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u160	Me too, my colleague. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr Hetas, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Madam President. I'll speak from here, respecting the space. Minister, we're left alone again. It's okay. At least our debate on a very important subject should have a substance. I do not really know where to begin and how to put my thoughts into one order, by listening to SYRIZA and the New Democracy in this Chamber today, once again and by having a political argument about who is to blame more or less, who has done the least of the evils that exist in our country and is currently living outside the Greek society. So, listen to SYRIZA accusing the New Democracy of having extreme right-wing tactics on illegal immigration. It's laughing at the pan-Hellenic. A SYRIZA who opened the doors accepted the whole world created the ideal conditions "hey, we have come" and a New Democracy that continues the very same policy with some differentiations, but which have no real effect, Mr Mitarakis. In politics, in life, if you want, we are all judged by the result. Mr. Metarakis, I'll start with you. You spoke about reducing the flow. We do not see any reduction. Tell us if the reduced flows are due to you or the circumstances. You referred to local communities. Really - because you are also from a local society that suffers - do you know what happens to local communities? How intense is the problem? How intense does this thing live in his skin? I hear you talking so much about the huge problem the illegal people are facing in Greece and nobody talks about the problem faced by our Greek fellow citizens, in the villages, in towns, in the towns, in the towns, in the islands. Doesn't anybody count on them? There I see a Greek flag and a European flag. But he also has a Greek flag. Aren't anyone going to talk about these people? The migratory municipalities you said, Mr. Metarakis, that they will not be and will not be alone with you and your policy. The question, Minister, is, at some point, that these municipalities feel Greek because they will lose their identity. It's not a matter of loneliness. It's a matter of losing identity. Before entering my speech, I would like to say a few notes of my own to what you said in order to respond to what you said. You said a lot. You said we didn't have cases. We had four cases on May 15th in Mytilini and three cases in Lesvos on June 27th. And he goes by saying a list. Don't say such things to the world. You share money, Mr Mitaraki, on the ideal conditions all these people have for illegal illegal immigrants in our country on SYRIZA but also on your own days. As a miracle, we have saved at the last minute here the 25 grand provided for by the bill by Mr. Zavos, the Ministry of Finance, to get illegal immigrants. Following pressure from the Greek Solution, its President and its members, we prevented this huge scandal in a Greece that is sinking, a poor Greece, with the people of the focus being on unemployment, living the health effects, with huge numbers of unemployment. The Greeks and we are talking and breaking in here how we will feel sorry for all those who, without inviting them, enter our country. We're gonna go crazy. You said we have -23% on the islands. This -23% didn't tell us where he went. They went somewhere. You took them out of hand, took them to the mainland and smuggled them free, Mr Mitaraki. And that resulted from the ones you left last night to go to Azadi Square. It's no longer Victoria Square, Minister. It's azadi square. That's what they call it. Freedom means azadi, as the gentlemen call it there. They came and what did they say? They sent the message. "Go, go wherever you want, I'll come and get you, take you to the hotel," as you did yesterday. Because these gentlemen will be followed by others. All those who leave uncontrollable outside, in the mercy of nothing, where will they go? What are they gonna do? They'll find some square, they'll find someplace, some court. They're going somewhere. And you take them and take them now to hotels to follow others. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Minister, at some point in your speech you had such a forum for the programme you have for illegal immigrants, which half of it in the case of benefits if you had for Greek citizens, at this time we would have unemployment in half. We wouldn't have so many homeless and poor Greeks. Really. Change movement. We were spoken by the French philosopher who described the horror of Moria. Aren't you saying, Mr. Kamine, that the French philosopher should write an article in "Kathimerini" and about the horror the Greeks are living in, afraid of being on the streets? The same excitement we'll feel with the French philosopher. What can I say, Mr. Minister, Mr. President? I want to tell you this and I will end with it, because I really don't have much time. A proverb of the people says that “two donkeys were fighting in a foreign barn.” You are fighting on this issue, the two of you, who are the nets responsible for 100%, that Greece, unfortunately, is 'calling'. What we didn't hear! We have heard Mr Muzala say: 'Well, do you not love these children? You don't love each other? Don't you feel? Aren't you humanists?’ So, you people who are humanists, the SYRIZA people... We're not the rest of us. It's just you. You have that privilege. We don't have any children, you only have one. I saw, of course, how humanists you are, that you give your homes to stay inside. Of course you're renting them. Call me Papadiou. It's yours, it's not ours. But, otherwise, you're too humanists. To end all this, Minister, we have told you many times and take action. He doesn't want management, he needs a solution. Get some things from what we're suggesting. Do the deeds. It's hard. It's the only solution to save our country. Otherwise, Minister, we will be thirty years and we will be talking about them. Islam Winners, Minister! You know that, too. "After this time we are told that we are granting permission to the port of Lesvos island to Mustafa Dawi to take over the funerals and the burial of migrants and refugees at the Muslim cemetery of Lower Third." We had the Municipality of Samos, now we have the Municipality of Mytilini. Not only does it accept by document the existence of a religious minority in Lesvos - because that is what you are doing, Mr Mitaraki - but you are also authorizing Egyptians to act as an imam and thus as a religious leader in Lesvos. We're losing our islands and you're fighting about who gave most or less. Get them out of here, there's no other way. Since you're so humanists, first feel sorry for the Greeks and then for all of them. They are down - and I close with this - in a country that lives with an offense, with NOVARTIS, with the media - here is the list, which weighs 20 million euros, in a country where we have Kalogris, Minoan, cassettes, EKP, intercepts, "magazies", "Magazia", "White House", with sues, with zardiniers of 5,000 euros, to try, Minister, to the Turks, who are watching us today, Akar finds allies in Greece, our foreign policy. Because we have the Rosakis in Greece, who are pressing on the Turks and say: "Here we are, and the Greeks themselves are in agreement with the co-management and co-existence of their mineral wealth." That's what the Docs and the Rosaceans say. But that is what we are talking about today. SYRIZA said a moment ago, "Where will these millions of people, refugees, who live in Turkey, go? He uses them with the hybrid war." Of course there is a hybrid war with Turkey and used them in Evros. Whenever it opens the hinge, whenever it closes the hinge. Is it possible to say such things? Turkey will be coming out today and will say that " here, there are parties in the Greek Parliament saying that Turkey does not use immigrants as a weapon, there is no hybrid war". And we gave them another hit today. Great stuff! We're being watched by the Turks. Have you "handed" us that the European Union is denouncing us for relaunching? What are we gonna do? Is this where we're gonna hold them? The Geneva Treaty says: 'When there are security issues, push back is allowed'. It is clearly stated in Article 23. I am closing with you, Mr Mitarakis, with one final comment, because you have said so with great satisfaction that the European Commissioner today has welcomed what you have done. Isn't that what you said? Be satisfied in this Chamber when Greek citizens and Greek women will be satisfied with what you are doing. Because, Mr. Metarakis, things are not right. At least don't present what you've achieved. Say 'I work', say 'I try', say 'I fight', say 'I'm still 1% of what I want to do'. Don't say you're doing well, because it's very bad and suffering the Greek citizen and making fun of him from the top.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Heta. Good evening, good week. Mr. Claus Gregoriadis of the 2nd North Athens Sector, the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u163	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin my speech tonight by saying good-bye to Officer Vasilis Palla. Vassilis Pallas was a police officer of the House who left life as a surprise last morning, and even at a very young age, just fifty-five years old. It was a police officer here who symptomaticly served here on the four gates of our plenary, and as I met him and spoke with him on several occasions, I can assure you firsthand that this is a man of very sweet, rare mental kindness, with a very rare sense of duty and the mood of offering and honor. Do you know why, ladies and gentlemen, only Mera25 of all the parties in this House and only me from all the Members of this House are now farewell from this step to Vasilis Pallas? Because quite simply, for all of you other people in here, it seems he was always a stranger, a stranger, someone who belonged to others. Do you know why there's always been a stranger to all of you and a stranger to Vassilis Pallas? Because he wasn't a congressman, because he wasn't a minister. Because he was only a cop.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u164	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u165	For us, then, in Mera25, know that all the policemen in this House, like all the cleaners in this House, like all the computers in this House, like all the waiters in this House, are not strangers and will never be. They were and will remain our people. I'm glad you're uprooting, because it looks like I hit a vein, dear colleague of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u166	We are all colleagues under this roof.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a country where in recent years and in total contrast to all the ideals of Humanism and modern democratic thought, the refugee issue is systematically being worked by the two major parties, with the sole aim of creating impressions of political differentiation, and it is now commonly accepted that both the present and the former government of the country were and are bound to the chariot of the memorial policies and migration. And I'm explaining. SYRIZA the first co-signed of the infamous European Union-Turkey Agreement, and then the New Democracy today continues to follow closely the same political stance, the one that has our country to play the glorious role of Europe's shield, as your President, Mr Von der Lyen, has said. What a name that, like it's a pun! Can it be possible, ladies and gentlemen, that Greece today accepts to be a shield against people who are bewildered, mourning and mistaken, who are desperately seeking a better life for themselves and their children? Is it possible, again, to create dilemmas in our society on the issue of refugees and migrants based on over-simplification or in favour or against, when the refugee issue is such a critical, complex, global issue? Can it be treated with such simplifications, how much more can it be dealt with with with micro-party purposes? Is it really possible, ladies and gentlemen, that SYRIZA is the one that created the reproach of Moria and that New Democracy now restores the closed structures, both by accepting the role of Greece as a state - retreat, as a state - wall, and by strengthening with these choices the surrounding, inconvenient nightmare of xenophobia, racism and the extreme right ideology of closed borders? History has shown that the Acro-right forces never hesitated to sell out the country's sovereign rights, in the Occupation, in the junta in the Memorandums. So today they are trying to convince a troubled people after a decade of memorialism to forget their humanism, to confront themselves as enemies and foreigners in need and finally to consider them responsible for the desertification of the country and the migration of their own children, for their economic difficulties, and so to write with all those - what strange - Brussels, Berlin, Washington - who have been impoverished by them - and who, through their wars, their wars in the Middle East, have created the framework and conditions that have ultimately led to the exacerbation and incredible intensity of this refugee problem. History, however, fortunately has proved that the Greek people are not afraid. He was neither afraid in the Occupation, nor in the junta, nor in the memorials. In the Occupation he took the guns and organized our national resistance. In the junta, the people rebelled at the Polytechnic. In the memorials - I remind you - he voted 'OR' with 62% in the referendum. Do you think, ladies and gentlemen, that the Greek people will now be afraid? Oh, no. The people of Greece are not afraid of the stranger, they are not afraid of the arsenal. Why isn't she scared? Because he has in memory his ancestors who once had to leave their homeland in search of a better future, for he still has in him the memory of the even more distant people who once lived in the same country and as he was already described by the hostages were asking the name of the foreigner who appeared on their doorstep only after receiving him, taking care of him, offering food, water and shelter. The next morning they were asking his name. Xenius, ladies and gentlemen, is this profound, touching, humanitarian ritual involving and condensing all the ideals of respect, sharing and dignity. It is not the folklor with local accommodation for tourists at our airports and ports. Merra25 resists racist extreme right ideology and cross-party memorialism and stresses that the only risk of delinquency today is the migration of our young people and the desertification of the country because of the memoranda. It also stresses that foreigners who will settle in our country will discover our language, culture and culture and will eventually become our best ambassadors. The Merra25 also stresses that the best defense of the country in such a dangerous and disturbed region and context is the defence of international law that your Government today, the New Democracy Government, is barbarically violating. In this context, Mera25 is working on an integrated position for the refugee issue and I shall end in a minute, Mr President. For example, in the short term we are proposing: firstly, the immediate promotion of refugees in the interior against European policies that the Aegean islands have turned into soul camps. Secondly, the creation of many small human infrastructures throughout the territory with the participation of the municipalities and the possibility for local authorities to invite for specific time immigrant families who are willing to enter the place productively. At European Union level we are proposing: first, a direct complaint - now, yesterday! - the unacceptable and illegal - according to international law, not with us - the European Union - Turkey agreement. Secondly, an announcement of veto to the European Union institutions, which requires a unanimous decision, until the European Union agrees to the equal distribution of asylum seekers and the opening of borders within it. In closing, we cannot stand up to the deterioration of policy on a management issue. Because as in the economy, in the refugee New Democracy and SYRIZA you have no differences about the framework. You fully accept this, whether it is a memorandum or a European Union-Turkey Agreement and you are only being managed. But I have you, ladies and gentlemen, news. The country's problem is not the best management of the same catastrophic policies, but destructive policies in themselves. So we in Mera25 choose to produce and pursue politics. We choose to fight for the prevalence within the Greek society of this policy until the definitive liberation of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr. Gregoryde. Vassilis Pallas will always be with us. But it's a little dusty for you. I will give the floor first to the Minister for Immigration and Asylum, Mr Metarakis. Here, Mr. Mitarakis, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u169	Thank you very much, Mr President. To express my condolences to the family of policeman Vassiliou Pallas, who suddenly lost his life at an early age. I think it is very positive that the remark of the Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 referred to this loss. But let me say that it was at least unfortunate to combine a human loss, a human suffering, with a reproach to all the colleagues of the National Representation regardless of fact. I think it would be positive - if he could - to recast his intervention to avoid interpretations that I am sure he did not want to give. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, too. Mr Bukkokouros has the floor for a minute and I would ask him to keep it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, I would like to add something - and I am sorry to ask for the floor - not as a parliamentary representative, but as a Member. Of course, Mr. Mera25 had every right to make reference to the late police officer in this House, whom we all met here at Parliament's entrances and were talking with him every day. Of course, he had the right to say goodbye to him, of course, he had the right to say how much he respects him and respects him and how he respects his memory. However, I think that I personally feel affected by the arbitrary conclusion, which becomes a political confrontation, to search for all the other wings of this House, my colleague, that we do not respect the employees of this House, the officials, the officials, the policemen of this House...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u172	"You don't know them," he said, "we don't respect them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u173	You know, Mr President, - I conclude, Mr President - respect for this function of police officers and workers here is a daily act, as is the way and the humanity with which we work with them, the kindness with which we treat them daily and the general relations between things created between Members and Members of this House. It is in no way the case that because we are MPs or ministers, we are not respecting the function of these people. I would also sincerely ask you to withdraw this because I am personally insulted by this conclusion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u175	Thank you very much, Mr President. I can't withdraw anything I didn't say. I never said I didn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u176	If you see the Minutes, you'll see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u177	Please, no dialogue! Mr. Gregoryde, say what you want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u178	Because there is a limit called "Greek Republic" in here, words that I did not say in my mouth will not be put on. Forget about that shrimp!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u179	'Because you are MPs', you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u180	What I said is you forgot him. And you're reasonably confused, because you really forgot him. Let the dirt that covers the Santa be light. Warm condolences to his family and friends!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u181	All of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, let us see the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u183	Please, we've exhausted it. Mr. Psychogios from beautiful Corinth and SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let me begin with our warmest condolences to the family and his relatives and say, for our part, that we are also fully respecting the police officers of this Parliament as workers, but also those who serve outside Parliament. We are in society every day, we do not separate, we do not distinguish. I think it should be done to all of us, and we respect it. From there on, Mr Mitaraki, we have asked you to speak frankly, not to agree that we disagree, because most of this is true, but to enable the Greek people to draw some concrete conclusions and to see the facts. Instead, you have answered us with lies, with many times even a break in the rules of numerical and logic. I begin with some arguments, which just answer and restore the order of things on which we need to discuss and give up the refugee - immigration. You have spoken again about open borders. Aren't you tired of this story? Does the application of international law by a country make it ferry or have open borders? The whole world recognised the efforts of the Greek people and the country in 2015 and then adhered to the International Law and the Law of the Sea. Do not, therefore, come back to this, as well as to your State Secretary, Mr Kumucako, who has really spoken about geopolitical reasons since the beginning of the governance, because he is exposing you. Of course, it's another thing to guard the borders. Obviously, the country has a right and an obligation to do so to Evros, but that goes far beyond compliance with international law and the European Convention on Human Rights. They have told you and the texts I have submitted by the International Organisation for Migration that they identify and want to investigate any violations there are. Because you did not say all of Mrs Johanson's reply, she also asked for such practices to be avoided and for complaints to be investigated. You guys need to answer sometime. You cannot blame us in the Greek Parliament constantly for propaganda or for other practices. You are asked to respond, when international instruments, to international organisations and the European Union mentions it, to take a position and put a stop to both Members and to ministers who are provoking refocuses at sea. You talked about dozens of structures in the mainland. They were the ones you have legalised and discovered that it is the only project that exists for the management of the refugee, and even after conflict, which is swaying with your own mayors and regionals, who are dissatisfied because of the populism and hypocrisy and the extreme right reflexes you have put forward, to welcome refugees. So let the dozens of structures in the inland and take a realistic look at implementing a plan for proportional distribution of refugees in Greece and Europe. You spoke about reducing the flow. Do you include the coronary period in this reduction in flow? Because we've said that on television sometime. Do you measure the coronary period data in reducing the flow? Or do you think that the deterrence, active or passive, which is extreme right-wing and ineffective and not the diplomatic path, the European perspective, weight-sharing and support for countries on the front line of refugee will solve the problem? That's gonna solve the problem. You spoke about the evictions, about the "ELIOS" programme. The ELIOS programme was carried out by the SYRIZA government. You invoke it now and you are even having difficulty and undermining its application. We had given a period of six months, so that the people who come out - and were not more than five hundred, those who came out in two instalments and directly went to hospitality and reception structures - and with tools other than ELIOS, as with a housing allowance for six months, with access to OAS programmes, with social solidarity income, stand on their feet and there is social cohesion and not social automation with this situation in the squares. You'll get that back. You are already taking it back and you are giving extensions, but you will also get it legislatively back, because it is unacceptable, inhumane and insulting the municipalities that implement the programme. For the sanitary armour, you've done absolutely nothing. You welcome something for which neither health support for structures nor in the regions of refugees nor even the extension of licences, with the image in Katechaki being continuous. For all this, we will have an international outcry in the next period and a body of convictions for the policies that you are implementing, no matter how much you want to present them on the basis of your own perception. They violate the rights of refugees - migrants, local societies and European and international provisions. One final word, Mr President, on the asylum service. We received the asylum service with two hundred and handed it over with a thousand and a hundred people on its assets. The speed of decisions by the asylum service on average in 2017 was four thousand three hundred decisions per month. The year 2018 was three thousand nine hundred, in 2019 it was four thousand two hundred and in 2020, until February, it was two thousand five hundred. Where, then, is this acceleration? No acceleration. That is why the remaining asylum applications have reached a hundred thousand. I'll put you in the Minutes and the evidence. [[At this point Mr Georgios Psychogios presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I conclude by saying that the administration of the Ministry is very critical and important. Nor can it be done, however, by privatising the structures, by postponing the technical service not having accountability and impartiality, and signing millions of euros of awards, nor by dismissing contractors of the 2017 asylum, who have not even answered the reasons for dismissal, nor by not renewing the OAED programmes and, of course, by a logic of direct awards everywhere, which you have said differently, but unacceptable and opaque procedures are available in the Serres Key and in Malakasa, and cannot be invested in the way you have said, expose the country and the public money, which you have often referred to on the refugee issue. I conclude by saying that this is a process that, unfortunately, does not reflect reality, you insist that you want to hide the issue under the carpet, your policies do not work and expose the country and this will be paid for by refugees and immigrants, but also by local communities in the next period, and there will also be exclusion and isolation from some European funding that we have had in previous years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Psychoyer. Mr. Ioannis Burnus has the floor from the beautiful Lesvos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. My concern, Mr Mitaraki, is whether the pile of gross lies that we heard in your speech has been made for political reasons or if you really believe what you have said. So let us count false statements in your speech. Compensation: The residents of Moria, because, Mr Mitaraki, I recently came to the assembly of Moria residents, where the government MP did not dare to attend, they have not taken a single euro since the autumn of 2019 and you came here to tell us that the compensation is going smoothly. You spoke about decongestion 23% from 1 January 2020. You seem to have forgotten what we have been telling you for some time, that you first increased the refugee and immigration population within the first six months of your government by 400% when we talk about the case of Lesvos. And you come and tell us now that you've been dismantled - he says - 23% compared to what? Not with the five thousand six hundred that we delivered to you in July 2019, but with regard to the twenty-one thousand, that is, the four times that you reached them with your ideological policy, so that you do not ruin the carpets of the "Blue" mayors in the multi-purpose prefectures of the interior, which make more seats in the Parliament than Lesvos, Chios and Samos. You solve - you say - by electronically rendering the vapour. Mr Mitarakis, a few days ago I visited the DU Mytilini, which, in passing, is subordinated - we will put a question in the next few days - and serves auditing Lemnos, Ai Stratis and Chios. They are also desperate for the manager and the workers - because they have been improvising for so long - because you did not have the sensitivity to consult with the ADP to issue a joint protocol of steps on the timely issue of VAT to recognised refugees. You told us that you were giving Parliament an account of the secret funds. You have not given any backing to the House on the secret funds. That is what you said in your speech. In fact, you said: 'I imagine if you had a problem with the opposition, you would have said so.' You haven't given us any romance. It'll be interesting to see. In the end, you told us that we protested with extremists, who we condemn, so that Moria wouldn't shut down. Mr. Metarakis, do not rinse the wound of February. Do not "treat" the reproach of the landing of MATs in Lesvos. For I, who protested at Karava and the Devil, do not think I was protesting with the extreme Mrs. Konnakas, a colleague from the Communist Party, who was there with her own comrades, or with the extreme Mayor of Western Lesbos, Mr. Verro, who came from the centre-street space or with the extreme Mr. Christofa, a candidate regional director supported by the Change Movement, or with the so-called extreme President of the Mandamadou community, who comes politically from your own political area. Unless all of us have suffered an extreme conflict and your policy is a policy of a democratic central party, which respects international law and human rights. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that after you have quadrupled the refugee and immigration population, you have failed and any commitment you have made to the safety of local populations. Mr. Metarakis, do you know what happened last night in Lesvos? First, we had a new murder of a nineteen-year-old Afghan. I spoke to you before about favelas conditions. You let it pass like this. The same night last night, just because you guys played with the humbler instincts and the fear of local societies, do you know what happened? In the village of Aphaonas, which is adjacent to Moria, a forty-nine-year-old compatriot from Aphaonas also shot a three-year-old fellow citizen of Lesvio because he saw him in his field after midnight and passed him for a foreigner. The wounded man has come by a plane to Athens and they're trying to rescue him. These are the results of this criminal choice to bet and fondle fear and panic in local communities. We do not play with your own rules, the extreme right-wing idealism, we play in direct coordination and dialogue with the democratic world of our island. And together with this world - I repeat, as I have done at the closure of my first speech - we will ensure that nothing is forgotten from the crimes you have done in refugee.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u187	Thank you very much, Mr Burnus. Let's go a little further to the Dodecanese, Mr. Nektario Santorinio. Mr. Santorinier, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, tell me the truth, or you didn't have a good degree in mathematics, or you use advanced mathematics and mathematics that you don't understand common sense. Because you came here to convince us that the fifteen thousand refugees and immigrants who were on the island last year are more than thirty-four thousand now. And you came here to convince us that the seventy thousand outstanding applications we gave you are more than a hundred thousand that you now have. Honestly, these mathematics I can't understand. They're probably advanced. Why are you talking about decongestion and you're not going to tell the islands? Go tell the islands and tell them "children, you know, fifteen thousand you had last year, thirty-four thousand you have this year, but the islands were dismantled". Why can't you even tell my compatriots in Leros and Kos that they have fewer people and you can't convince them when during the winter they had three-fold and four-fold populations managed as well. So you told us that your concept of maritime borders is a deterrent. I'm asking you again: Do you mean pushbacks? Because pushbacks are not consistent with international law. But let me get over this. In the first semester, when the flows increased, you didn't have that perception? Did you get it later? Are you accusing those who were before your government of not having that perception, of having a perception of open borders, and you came to gain the perception of closed borders? Or do you take it for six months? And tell us now, to understand, in what perception is this semester? We have told you that flows have stopped, as has happened in our own times. Stop admiring yourself, because it is obvious that the 133m euros you will give to increase structures in Samos, Kos and Lero - and you have not explained to us why the budget is so increased - is money which will be for increased flows, for increased tonnage. Or if it is not for increased capacity, why do you give so much money, be it from the Public Investment Programme - why is that how your decision is written, that it is from the National Public Investment Programme - or should I accept your version, that it is from EMAS? But in any case there is too much money and you need to explain to us how many places you are planning in these three R & D programmes. Leave the fugitives! Answer directly! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr Santorinier. Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor for ten minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u190	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the ideological differences between the Government and the Civilian Police are evident. We are talking about border guarding, about balanced immigration policy, about recognition of international law, but about returns of those who are not entitled to international protection, and the SYRIZA Members are talking about endless flows and endless structures. Mr. Psychogios spoke and acknowledged that Greece has a border in Evros. He left me a maritime border questioning. Do we have a maritime border? Do we have a right to protect our maritime borders?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u191	Don't say that again!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u192	I would like a clear answer to that, because it seems from the SYRIZA Members' words, it concerns you that, with absolute respect for the rules of international law, our country is effectively - we have 92% reduction in the second quarter - keeping our maritime borders. Mr. Janakopoulos, we have presented evidence, specifically figures. Indeed, immigration is a difficult problem. We experienced SYRIZA's years and your policy created thirty one of the thirty two structures. You didn't deny it, Mr. Psychoyte. You confirmed it in your dentistry. You just said that we legalized them. We didn't legalize them. We have put administration under the Greek State, instead of the structures controlled by the NGOs, as you have chosen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u193	That's enough of the word game! Answer the substance. Enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u194	The reality is that 2019 was a difficult year and had started a difficult year from the beginning. Since the beginning of 2019, the flows have been increased. And indeed, in the second half of 2019, for geopolitical reasons, the Prime Minister himself has recognised the difficulties that were created at the time for immigration, but after the decision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of 1 March, a decision under the Prime Minister, we have changed the doctrine of protecting sea and land borders with the results you see today. And I presented these concrete results. Mr Burnus and Mr Michaelides spoke specifically about Lesvos and Chios, and I listened very carefully to them. Do you agree to close Vial and Moria and create new structures, with human living conditions for asylum seekers and safely for the residents? I say this because you yourself said today about events taking place in structures and you are right about that. There is a security problem within structures and in local communities. The reality is 'no'. You like this favelas for political reasons and you were across from us when we tried to deal with this problem. You said about coarse lies, but then, one - one of what you said as examples is confirmed. Let me tell you again. I wrote your speech. You said compensation. I said in my speech that in July they will be given at the request of the municipalities. That's exactly what I said. You said 23% reduction on the islands since 1 January. That's what I said. That's true.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u195	You said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u196	Mr. Burnus, he didn't interrupt you. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u197	You said it was decongested. We're decongesting without creating new structures. That is our political choice. We don't want the thirty-one structures that you inherited us to do fifty, sixty, a hundred. That is what you are asking, that is, that the whole country should fill up structures and give life for immigrants. We disagree with that. We give them the opportunity to work and step on their own feet. Mr. Janakopoulos, the fact that in the second half of 2019 we had increased flows, I think it is something that we all know. Our country set itself the goal of the Ministry's re-establishment and the KYSEA's new decision to regain control. We recovered him. We have reduced the flows, doubled asylum decisions, reduce both the islands and mainland Greece. And at European level, Mr Janakopoulos, we do not believe that our country is a host country and must lift the burden. On the contrary, we have said. We are at the forefront of the European negotiation for a mandatory mechanism of solidarity between the countries of the European Union, so that our country does not lift the burdens it has raised on your days. We are also calling for a European mechanism for returns and expulsions. I said this today in the Committee on Home Affairs of the European Parliament. As far as the specific funds are concerned, which Mr Burnus always mentions, as they are one of his favourite issues, I would remind him that the disbursement of any sums made following the approval of the Secretary-General and of two permanent directors of the Ministry and notified to Parliament in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. Of course, I'll tell you something, which I've never mentioned before. We went to open a secret bill at the Ministry after the law was passed and the General Accounting Office of the State informed us that such a secret cost account has already been in place since 2018. Mr. Vitch had opened him. It is the code that ends in ‘001’, the ALAE with the revenues of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum. But now we're going to the HELIOS programme. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. It is hypocrisy when you say that in EXIT on your days there was an organized program. There were fragmentary actions, Mr. Psychoyer, which are all maintained. What you said in your speech as the EHIT status of 2019 is maintained. The rental subsidy is maintained, the one-off ELIOS programme is maintained. The possibility of access to OPEK and OAD is being added to skills and languages and help in finding work. The big ideological difference is that on your day, in the very slow asylum procedure, you gave these benefits to asylum seekers for two or three years, and our goal is to give them for a few months. That's a big difference. I should like to stress that the Port House, with determination, respect for international law and sensitivity to human life, is working on effective surveillance and protection of the marine borders of Greece and the European Union. It guards the eastern borders of our country and of all Europe, of course with respect for the European Regulation on the protection of human life at sea and all international legislation. On the issue of the two exceptional structures built in the days of the coronary at the same time as the asymmetrical threat to the border I have been placed many times. We chose the contractors with whom you had done the first work of Malakasa or the contractor of the IOM, who was in Siniki, with a project budget that was 23% reduced compared to the corresponding work done on your own days. These projects will be financed by the European Union. You have also raised a number of issues. Mr. Paulakis speaks from Facebook security. I have invited him to come to the House, to put a question, to discuss it specifically, as we did on the other issue. The transcripts do not cost EUR 23 000, ladies and gentlemen, they cost EUR 50 per transcript and the final account can be 90% lower than the final limit on which it was created. He has also confused many times disparate contracts for materials, disparate contracts for storage matters, security, matters he knows very well from his own role in CEDEFOP. I will reply to Mr Kamine on the point he raised about the coordinator. The same thing has been raised by other speakers. All Ministers dealing with immigration have remained at the forefront of the management of immigration, and Mr Chrysochoidis and Mr Koumoutsaskos and Mr Stefanis and the special coordinator, Mrs Meridakis. We have strengthened migration with human resources, created the Ministry to deal with a problem that was considerably greater. Mr Heta, as usual in your own theatrical way and in an intense populism, which unfortunately sometimes discerns your word, you said that if Greek citizens had the same privileges there would be no unemployment in our country, that there would be half of unemployment. I think you don't know exactly what's happening to immigration. The reality is that asylum seekers are entitled to remain in structures and have a feeding allowance for the few months that are asylum seekers. That's it. And the New Democracy has now interrupted it, not to be given for a long time. Mrs Fotou raised the issue of unaccompanied minors, Law 4554/2018, which provided for the concept of a professional commissioner, a law that was passed, but in fact SYRIZA never applied. I would like to tell you that immediately a ministerial decision of the Ministry of Immigration will be issued to verify the incapacity. It is very important that this ministerial decision should be taken so that with medical protocols we can be sure that a minor is indeed a minor or not. I would also like to say that the relocation programme of thirty-five unaccompanied minors in the Member States of the European Union has already started and has already been relocated four of the fifty-four groups envisaged. Finally, Germany intends to accept children who have serious health problems along with their families. A total of nine hundred twenty - eight persons. A colleague mentioned the issue of the NGO register. Wrongly - I read it in some newspapers dealing with the SYRIZA - he said that the Council of Europe was referring to the NGO register. The Council of Europe has made no reference to the NGO register. The NGO conference, namely the NGOs themselves, which are under the umbrella of the Council of Europe, and their legal service in particular, expressed some views which have not even been adopted by the NGOs themselves. Therefore, we do not put labels on 'the Council of Europe is questioning'. The Council of Europe has not, at least, called into question the legislation that has come - and it is a legislation for NGOs which the NGOs themselves want - to distinguish the hero from the wheat, to distinguish the serious organisations that actually provide serious services. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say the following. Our country is implementing a balanced immigration policy and now the image of immigration has changed, as we are constantly recovering control. Of course, we face multiple fronts, such as the fatigue of local societies, different ideological approaches, an anti-political logic that does not want to tackle the need for difficult decisions, but - I do not hide it - and the reaction of those who do not want to change the current situation of resource management. But now we have specific results: limiting flows by 51% in semester, increasing asylum decisions by 88%, reducing residences on our island by 23%, tackling pandemic without loss of human life. And we will continue in 2020 in the same direction. Our objective remains the substantial reduction of flows and the drastic reduction of the impact of the crisis on local communities. We are now talking with results and evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr. Metarakis. Mr. Janakopoulos, will you be seconded?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u199	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the number 23/12/28-5-2020 topical question on 'Dangerous and ineffective policy implemented by the government in refugee matters' is adjourned. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-06-S1-commons.u201	With the consent of the House at 21.31 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 7 July 2020 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
