ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning! The meeting's on. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Debates, at the request of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in accordance with Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure, on the subject of informing the House about government policy on the treatment of pandemic. Today, at the request of the Prime Minister, who was sent on Friday, November 6 and notified to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups on the same day, as set out in Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure. According to the terms of Article 142a, the announcement is made in person by the Prime Minister, and the duration of the communication may not exceed 10 minutes in protology, five in denology and five in tritology. The Chairpersons of the Representation Parliamentary Groups may, in person, develop their views on the content of the communication for a maximum of five minutes for each. The Prime Minister shall, in accordance with paragraph 6 of Article 142a, close the meeting and speak last. However, in relation to the time I have given you, for the better organisation of the debate, I propose, in accordance with the unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents, that the speaking time of the Prime Minister and of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups should be tripled. So speaking times are as follows: the Prime Minister has 30 minutes for the terminology, for the second time 15 minutes, for the third time 15 minutes. The Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups shall have 15 minutes for both the vocabulary and the nine minutes for the second. In view of the fact that the planned periods are already multiple, I would ask that they be kept as long as possible. Does the House accept this proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u2	The proposal was therefore unanimously accepted. The Prime Minister Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis is then called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I have raised today's debate so that we can have a sober, honest dialogue on the situation in the country. The Government will inform the National Representation and the Greek citizens of the situation and I expect all of the participants to respect the criticality of the situation. I believe that our doctors, our nurses, our fellow citizens, who are sick and looking for care in a public hospital, the last they would like to hear today, is another meaningless political fight at the National Representation. Therefore, it is up to all of us to stand still and to turn this debate into a fruitful process, where the government with honesty will present what it has done, what it intends to do, to make its sincere self-criticism, and counter-government will propose to the government ways in which we can all improve the situation together and give this difficult battle more effective, because there is no doubt that the next few days, I would say next week, the next ten days will be difficult, days extremely critical. In this great political leadership, parties, but also citizens, we must all assume our responsibilities. I shall then return to the concept of responsibility and how I personally understand it at this extremely difficult time. I believe that what has taken place since March has been a little well-known today. However, it is worth a brief review, especially so that we can agree in this Chamber on what the real, true facts are, so that we do not constantly pursue unscrupulous rumours, constructed, dramatized images that often aim most at temporary micro-party targets and not to serve to find the real truth. So what we have done since March to this day is quite well known. The country has succeeded in reminiscent of the first wave of pandemic and has done so, because experts, state, but, above all, we were all together in a joint effort. The government has never proclaimed solemnity for this national success. In every public speech of mine, in every dictionary of mine, I thanked the citizens who first complied with the suggestions of experts. And when we had managed to overcome the outbreak of the first wave, I myself warned that we have not yet left the danger behind and that we should not, as we opened up our economy again, reassured and allowed the virus to return again. What has happened all this time in the National Health System is known. I understand that we have one difficulty in agreeing to the figures. The government gives concrete evidence. The opposition submits that those figures are not accurate, that they are less beds than the government says, that recruitment is less than those claimed by the Government. I think it's a conversation that citizens can hardly watch. Therefore, instead of quoting once again - and I have it with me - all the information that the Ministry has given to the public about how many recruitments have been made, I will be content with reading what the Professor of Ideology and Pneumonology of the University of Athens Medical School, Mrs Cotanidou, said. Mrs. Cotanidou, I didn't know her. I met her in the context of our cooperation and our regular communication with the intensifiers of the whole country. I think it is a scientist who has been extremely well-qualified and certainly knows well, because he has served this area, which has been on public health in recent years. So Mrs Cotanidou said: "I would like to add that all of us industries are a small group, but we know each other. Over the last twenty-five, thirty years, what we have been asking of all the governments that have been through is to increase the units and beds in intensive care units, increase nursing and medical staff. For the first time, in the midst of this unprecedented health crisis, steps are being taken which are not just positive, they are excellent in the field of intensive therapy." I give the relevant statement to Mrs Cotanidou. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I won't say it's perfect. I will say, however, that every human effort has been made to enable the space that has taken place from the first wave to the point where we are today, to strengthen with beds and staff the intensive care units. What was possible, has been done and is still done, because you know very well that there is a distinction between permanent intensive care units, such as those created at the Salvation Hospital with the donation of the House and the interventions that are being made to deal with an emergency crisis where beds can be recruited and created to cope with the upturn of the moment. At the moment - do not be fooled - both are done, which I describe. I also do not think there is any doubt that today our country has an effective civil protection mechanism. It has a public health agency, the EGE, which has nothing to do with the mechanism that we have received from both his staff and his professionalism and his know-how. There is no doubt that the country in the last eight months has sharply increased its number of tests. If you look at the ECDC map - the only benchmark we can use - we are about on the European average of the tests that we do. We were the first country in Europe to use rapid test and we have recruited them in a way which is very well organised to help with a rapid diagnosis, in cases where this rapid diagnosis is necessary. So that's all from April to today. I will then come to what we could have done better and how we can get better from now on. You know, however, that since the end of the first prohibition, the aim of all of us has been to avoid a second horizontal dragon lockdown, because we know well that a universal freeze is hurting the economy and society. It is a general, horizontal measure that is addressed to everyone. But he doesn't load everyone's shoulders with the same weight. Equivalent is not always equivalent and the total - we know well - is not always fair. So we, like all the other European countries, which is the direct benchmark, had to balance between two parallel and often opposite needs: protection of public health on the one hand and support of the economy and society on the other. We have chosen all the time that has taken place since we saw that we had to deal with a second outbreak of the virus and local interventions. We have explained that if we can comply with the protection measures indicated by experts, we will be able to avoid a horizontal second lockdown. I would like to stress that all European countries have done the same. In a debate, sincerely, which we had at the October summit and which I said there is a bet that we do not know if we can win. And I made it very clear: 'We have the possibility of limiting the elevation of a second wave by taking measures that will be more relaxed than a horizontal lockdown?' Unfortunately, we are aware of the answer today, ladies and gentlemen. We can't do it. I'm sorry to say that. But the same point has been reached in all European countries. We have all tried not to freeze economic activity, to take local measures, temporary measures, targeted measures. Unfortunately, we have not managed to restrain the outbreaks of the difficult and rapid outbreak of the virus so that we can reach a point where we do not face an exponential increase in the way we are facing it today. We had to take the drastic measure of the horizontal lockdown when we found that we were faced with an exponential increase in cases. I did not hesitate to do so a few days after we had launched the previous package of measures because the data that the experts have put into my mind did not accept any question at all. We have seen within less than a week a dramatic, exponential increase in cases particularly in northern Greece, which we had to retain at all costs. And because our responsibility is to protect the whole country and not only to deal with the outbreak of the virus where there are many cases, we have chosen the solution of the horizontal lockdown as it has been launched. This is a lockdown which in relation to the lockdown in March and April has two main differences: one is that, unlike in March and April, the use of a mask when moving is compulsory. The second difference is that we have chosen to keep the primary schools open, to close high school and high school, which currently operate with the telecoms system. I would like to stress that we have also made this decision earlier than other countries which have faced exactly the same exponential increase in the coronary. We took it much earlier than Belgium, earlier than France, earlier than Italy, which, even today, has not yet gone to a horizontal lockdown, although its hospitals are being pushed too much, as hospitals are pressing throughout Europe. In Greece the alarm was marked by the beginning of the autumn. For at least two months we have seen an increase in cases that was reasoned and controlled. It was an increase in cases which, according to our own analysis at least, was not linked - and I will say again - was not linked to the opening up of tourism. Allow me to state this. Countries which were completely closed, such as Israel, which did not accept any visitors, saw a second rise in the coronary in September. Cyprus has had much stricter procedures. We have failed, but she has also been hit and is currently being hit as hard. Of course, there is one argument that at least I have not yet heard a copy of. If the outbreak of the second wave was linked to the opening to tourism, we should have seen it in August and September and not at the end of October - early November. This is quite obvious, there is no need to be an epidemic to see it. I would like to mention a little more detail about what the opposition has said about the issue of tourism. I would like to remind the National Representation that the Opposition asked us to open up tourism and blamed us - you, Mr. Tsipras - for not doing so yet. Statement of 18 May: "When we have arrived today and are 18 May and we do not even know when or how to relaunch tourism, you understand that we cannot be optimistic." And in tourism you said that, and then you said it exactly backwards. We opened tourism organised, with a very strict methodology, with the tests we carried out at a percentage of our incoming visitors. Of course, let us finally be honest in this Chamber. If we were to do a posteriori of what you told us, after you had urged us to open up tourism, that is to say do a PCR test to those who wanted to visit Greece, we would have 10% of the tourism we had in the end, it would be exactly that decision with the closure of tourism and not with the opening of it. It could possibly be an option.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u4	Who says that? Where does it come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u5	Don't rush, don't get upset. You'll have the chance after you say it. You see that we are having a quiet debate and I hope the climate remains that way, because here we will be confronted with arguments and with the logic of numbers. We could have said as a country that we do not want tourism. If we said that we did not want tourism at all and had to carry a PCR test, we would have, instead of five million visitors coming and close to 5 billion revenues, 20%, 10%. Is that what you recommended? If that were recommended, you should go out and say it, but you cannot even want it on your own scale, and on the one hand want compulsory tests, and on the other, look forward to a time when our clients, in the countries that have chosen to open up and send visitors, so they could not even carry out tests, that we had to ask for a mandatory test to enable someone to enter our country. So, in the last ten days, we have seen an exponential increase in cases. We saw that if we continued with these rates the health system would receive more than a thousand patients every day of whom could require more than a hundred intensive treatment unit. And I want to make a comment on intensive care units. The number of intensive care units a country has cannot be alibi to our priorities. Unfortunately - and we know - some of those who are going to get seriously ill will be led to intensive care units and some, a significant proportion, will end up. The more coronary transmission spreads, the more they will get, the more they will be lost, the more intensive treatment units and if there are. A Minister for Health has not been found in Europe who has not come to the same conclusion. Whatever units we have - and we obviously prefer to have more than less - it cannot withstand a health system unless we hit the problem at the start of the chain. And the beginning of the chain is the uncontrolled spread of the virus mainly through co-existences and contacts with people we do not know. I would like to address a hypothetical question to the entire National Representation: if we had three thousand intensive treatment units instead of a thousand and something we have today, if we had five thousand intensive treatment units, would we be more relaxed in the precautionary measures that we would take? Because if that is what you imply, then I must tell you that if the three thousand intensive care units were to be filled, we would have a thousand five hundred fellow citizens who would lose their lives about every week. So intensive treatment units and their number are in no way an alibi to avoid taking strict measures to limit mobility earlier, but I will talk about them sooner then. I want you to know that reinstatement of the quarantine was not an easy decision, because in addition to implementation, measures also need adaptation. Other measures apply to a turbulence, but in a turbulence, other measures must be taken when tsunami is converted into tsunami. And in the face of this tsunami we must today stand up to a smuggler. We've tried a lot of defensive patterns. The truth is that these were betrayed by the behavior of some. We should finally get out here and recognize this, recognize it courageously, not close the eye to some who, in their dishonest and irresponsible behavior, undermined the health of many. We know today what the outbreaks of virus dispersion have been. We know. We don't say it to target someone. We say this to explain to society that these behaviours pose a public health problem to everyone. And I would like, please, to hear from all the parties today. The main cause of the virus spreading in Greece and throughout Europe was the fun of young people. I do not say that as a criticism. Obviously young people are more prone to such behaviour. However, it is one point which must be heard, because all I have heard from the Opposition is 'do not target young people', as if young people are completely irresponsible and above criticism in this great crisis that we are facing. So the data here are clear and unrelenting and there is no question at this time and there is no solution. I'll say that again, there's no solution. I prefer to hear that we have given lasting battles, putting parallel impurities on the sanitary enemy, rather than surrendering to him! I'm ready to discuss how we fought, but never whether we fought, much more when they're shouting about all those who missed the war of the information, so that they can make an inexhaustible fight now. We have thus reached the new ban in November. What's the target? I will explain it again, to reduce population mobility, so that it can be drastically reduced, and the transmission of the virus, in order to withstand our hospitals, which are constantly being strengthened. Our first station right now will be holidays. If we succeed, we can do them in better conditions. Of course, today, more than ever, we all need to show the necessary maturity and responsibility. I know society is scared, tired, nervous, angry. And the finding we are making, looking at the real facts, is that we are not persuading the citizens - all together, I use the first pluralist person - with the same efficiency, that they must comply with these basic measures to limit mobility to limit the virus. My impression is that sometimes we need to take more stringent measures than we took in March and April to achieve the same result that we achieved at that time. That is why it is very important that the message, which will be emitted by the political forces on the main axes of public health, should be uniform, uniform and not be called into question. When we come and say, we are more likely to clarify what a curfew is at nine o'clock at night, we are doing it to limit movements that may have the character of optionality. We don't do it in the morning, because people should still - those who can and should go to work - go to work and parents should go and pick up children from primary school. However, what should not be done at this juncture is to move in the evening on the so-called excuse for exercise and go from house to house, joining people who are not part of our close family environment. This will be dramatic if it happens. If, therefore, I cannot explain to my fellow citizens that this is something that must not be done, what possibilities we can only implement such measures. And I would ask everyone and the political leaders to support these measures. These are the only measures which will enable us today to limit the rapid transmission of the virus. Of course, we have every reason to believe that these measures will be effective. It may take another week, ten days hard for the National Health System. But we will then see a drop in cases and less pressure on the National Health System. But the next few days will be difficult, the next few weeks will be difficult. As is already difficult for our fellow citizens who are called upon to suffer the consequences of this second horizontal intervention in the functioning of the economy. But that's why we went out ahead and said we'd support above all our most vulnerable fellow citizens. That is why we have come and said that in November, in particular, we will increase the payroll by 50% and bring it to EUR 800. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That is why we are coming and strengthening and prolonging unemployment benefits. And that is why we will always be here in the next few months to support those households that are most vulnerable and will be subject to the greatest pressure from this unprecedented economic crisis. This is the second wave of care of this government for income and production, which will touch the 3.5 billion in a month. So we come to see and discuss what we did right and what we did wrong with honesty and genuine self-criticism. I want you to know that there is no night that I will come home to, and I will not think about what we might do better the next day to save people's lives. I do not accept that being called into question, as I do not accept this being called into question for anyone who today gives a fight, whether he is a member of the government, whether he is an EGE, or a Civil Protection, a huge effort being made to deal with an enemy who is constantly changing form and recommends the definition of an asymmetric threat. Please do not go into the temptation today, Mr Tsipras, to repeat the evidence you have shown last time about the deaths in our country. Don't do it! I sincerely give you this advice, if you have this in your speech, do not do so. Do not play this unacceptable game on the backs of people who lost their lives to haunt what exactly? I want to understand. That we are facing all Europe with a second pandemic wave, which we are all trying to control in the same way? I do not want to be honest - I will only do so in my dentistry if you insist on using these elements - to speak to statistics of the dead. I don't want to. But do not force me to enter this greedy comparison, if you choose again to make specs, especially on these statistics. Any other evidence you use, if you want, but that's what I sincerely ask you not to do, because it's an insult. It is also an insult to the memory of our fellow citizens who have lost their lives and I think it is also an insult to all who are making a huge effort to save human lives, exaggerating themselves in the midst of this unprecedented crisis. What could we have done differently? We could, perhaps, have imposed the use of masks everywhere earlier. We could narrow the nightclub earlier than we did. Yes, perhaps in Thessaloniki we should some days earlier - perhaps a week earlier - take more drastic measures. That's what we could have done. But I did not see one of the Opposition recommend these. I did not see one of the Opposition suggesting: 'Take more drastic lockdown measures now, close the economy now', earlier than we did. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because our single-weighing tactics are very convenient when anyone is in opposition and can easily say that and the exact same backwards. There is a paradox here: COVID is not incriminating, but the government, because that is what you claim when you say that the ban is caused by our policy and not by the virus. You told us: "If it were me, I would not let the coronary situation develop like this." Really, huh? With a law and an article! Good thing you haven't declared your new memorial health! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] A few days ago I spoke to the Greeks, with the head of the National Scientific Committee, Professor Tsiodra. Mr. Chiodras publicly presented the same research data that the government receives every day. I have analysed our options, answered questions, and I believe that this is how we are aiming, at this critical juncture, at the confidence of policy towards experts, but also at the separation of roles. It is our role to make final decisions. I believe that this is a process of democratic accountability. It is, however, also a move to recognise the offer of scientists to health protection. I cannot comment here on the fact that there were voices from your party that wanted to reduce it. First, Mr. Paulakis was named after Mr. Tsiodra. You discovered, too, Mr. Tsipras, the work of scientists. You were so shocked by the fact that I addressed Mr Chiodra to the native. It was scandalous what happened. Indeed, with a man with whom I communicate many times a day, a degree of intimacy and respect has been created that has allowed me to do so. From there on, however, I have to repeat that this fact was not an accident. I would like to stress and submit to the Minutes the video you have moved - SYRIZA - by which you personally target Mr Tsiodra. This is screenshot from video. You targeted him personally. You put him in a video. Look at it, Mr. Tsipras. He may have escaped you. This is in your video. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You have chosen the political targeting of scientists instead of the government's targeting. But this is how you undermine political controversy. By undermining the experts, you turn the way to the darkness of ignorance and half - learning. These have no place in Greece of the 21st century. But I fear that it is also the fatal outcome of an opposition catastrophe, which is not seeking solutions to the problems, but only to the solutions which the government gives, a policy which, from the beginning of the pandemic, reminds us of an outstanding one that is ready to break, moving between inexpensive and irresponsible complaint. Ladies and gentlemen, as I told you, I am the first to admit delays and failures in the face of an unprecedented situation for the whole planet. However, I will never deny the common effort of a state, of experts and of citizens, which shows that it can produce results when there is a contraction and when positive proposals are heard. I fear that this view, unfortunately, does not share the Qualified Opposition. I would like, on this occasion, to respond, in my protology, to the three proposals made by the Chief of Staff Response to deal with this crisis. You have proposed three things, Mr Tsipras, and I would like to answer them so that you may comment on them in your position too. You told us, firstly, that we had to freeze our programme for which we were elected for six months until the pandemic passes. You told us to change the headline of the Ministry of Health, while giving a day-to-day battle, and selecting a Prime Minister, and you told us that the Council of Political Heads should meet, as if you had no regular briefings at the level of your experts, of the people you have authorized to speak with the Ministry of Health, about exactly what the government is doing. That is, because you don't have a plan, if I understand it well, you're suggesting that the country should go further. You told us that we were political fraudsters and now you suddenly want to become a partner of the government. And because, Mr Tsipras, you told us that the answer of the Government's representative is not enough, so listen to it well from me: Greece has a government. He doesn't have a serious opposition! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I imagine that because you are asking for and often the resignation of Ministers, as you have asked for Mrs Kerameo's resignation because she has dropped the 'CISCO' Server - you, Mr Loverdos, have acknowledged that your initial criticism was excessive - you have insisted that Mrs Keramea resign, because she has dropped the 'CISCO' Server in London and you want to believe that this will become a credible counter-population. I imagine, however, that soon - it will not take you long - you will ask for the entire government to resign and form a government of national unity. I imagine it's next we'll hear from your mouth. Look, political dialogue and political criticism have not been suspended anywhere in the world. But everywhere, there is the great deal of good and the need for this dialogue to be accompanied by creative and substantial proposals. And I would like to give an example of what a constructive opposition means from a country that is familiar with you. Labour leader in England, Jeremy Corbin's successor, with whom you had such good relations, Sir Kir Starmer, asked, a month ago, a Catholic lockdown. He clearly said: "Look, we can't handle the coronary with half-measures and we have to go to a universal lockdown. I never heard you say anything like that. If you had said this and had taken on the courage of your choice - because, you know, these measures have a cost - then I could really accept that you were right that we might have to move earlier and your criticism would be documented. But you never said that. You said only what may sound nice and pleasant in the ears of the different audiences to which you are addressing. And I think that today the time has come to place all parties, not only you, Mr. Tsipras, but also Mrs. Gennimata and Mr. Koutsoubas and Mr. Velopoulos and Mr. Varoufakis. Should we or should we not go to Lockdown now? Should we have gone sooner? I didn't hear it from anyone! From no one I heard in this Chamber that we had to go to Lockdown earlier. Shouldn't we go to Lockdown? Should we have waited to see if the previous measures, which we had implemented, would have been working? Should we or should we not support the real economy with an extraordinary package of measures, such as the 800 euros, which we give to employees? Because the last time you were placed on a special package of measures - if I remember well, for the heartbeats - you did not vote on it. Finally, should we or should we not trust experts? Who's got the upper hand? Mr. Blondie? Mr. Paulakis? Do we trust or don't we trust the experts? Do we hear or hear their recommendations, even when they change their minds, because they simply change the data? So this is a good thing to talk about today, as we enter, perhaps in the most difficult phase of dealing with the pandemic. And now it's time for us all to stand up so that, when he comes with the good vaccine, he can also find the society standing up and discipline individually, asking for discipline from our side, because every personal failure right now is collective. And at the moment, citizens need conscientiousness and the state needs to make a contribution from everyone, from the calm criticism of opponents, not from nonsense - because they are nonsense, such as those we have heard, for example, on the issue of telematics - and certainly not from the criminal attitude of those - and here I address you, Mr Secretary-General - in the midst of a pandemic, even talking about the course of the Polytechnic, overlooking that there were no events or other national anniversaries and risking to turn a course of honor into a course of pain to the intensive units. So let us at least agree today in this Chamber that we can honor the memory of the Polytechnic with an extremely limited and simple wreath deposit ceremony at the Polytechnic and say that you will not be involved in any course and that you will not encourage anyone in these critical conditions to be found on the road....
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u6	But don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u7	...and jeopardize public health! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And know that the government will not allow any such behaviour! We've been telling you to know that from now on. As the government made the decision not to celebrate October 28th, so it also makes the decision not to make the course of the Polytechnic in these circumstances. And I'm sure that's what they'd like to do, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u8	Well, aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u9	I'm not embarrassed at all. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Kutsuba, you'll talk in a minute. Don't interrupt, Mr. General.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u11	...to be serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Kutsuba, don't interrupt. Mr. Kutsuba, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u13	You'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u14	Mr. General, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u15	Today - and I will close with that - we do not, at least, walk in no direction. We climb up a mountain and see the top. We don't know exactly how much time it takes to get to the top. We know there are several raisins and cliffs from where we are to the top, but we see the top. And the top is the vaccine. And it is highly optimistic that at least one company has already announced that its vaccine is not just safe but also extremely effective. And I appreciate that other companies will make corresponding announcements within the next few weeks. The Government already has a plan to supply the vaccine and mass armour the population. The Ministry of Health and the Committee on Vaccines is completely open - because I have also seen an interesting question tabled by KINAL - to listen to parties' views on how this plan can be made even better and even more effective. Of course, we must all fight to convince the Greek society that, once the vaccine is available for all Greek citizens, Greek citizens must be vaccinated. Obviously, we're not going to go to any kind of mandatory vaccination. However, as our fellow citizens have been vaccinated for flu at very high speed and with vaccines that had been supplied in time by the Greek Government, the same logic must prevail in the vaccine against COVID. Of course, I would like to say another thing, which I consider to be extremely important. When we see the top of the mountain, the light at the end of the tunnel, as you say, we can react psychologically in two different ways. One is to relax and say 'you're not bored, you'll find the vaccine, it's all right'. The second is to be even more firm, to tighten the teeth, because we now know what the end of this route is. We have to do the second. We will have vaccines at our disposal, possibly from January onwards. These vaccines will come in section. It will take time to vacate a sufficient percentage of the population to break the transmission chain. Of course, in this period, we are in no way allowed to relax. But we now know that at the end of this route there is a vaccine, which is the only tool we have at our disposal to tackle this unprecedented crisis. And this prospect of the vaccine must arm us all with new strength and new endurance, so that the end of this nightmare will find all citizens healthy, the country's productive tissue ready to regain the string of growth. So I close with a sincere call for consensus and perspective. We will continue, in spite of the difficulties, to fight for the protection of public health, by listening to the scientists' instructions, by adopting every fruitful proposal, by not hesitantly correcting weaknesses, where they are identified, boldly and truthfully. For their part, all Greeks are invited to raise their own stature of national responsibility, to continue to respect the protection measures and the rules of the state, so that things don't get worse before they get better. Let me close with a reference to the concept of responsibility. Responsibility is a word that one can read from two different perspectives. It can be viewed as a fault or it can be seen as a responsibility. I read the concept of responsibility under the second definition. Responsibility means responsibility, responsibility to ourselves, to our fellow citizens. Responsibility is not a fault. We don't move the finger to anyone to tell him it's the fault of what's happening. We call on him to consider that responsibility is the twin brother of freedom, that there is no freedom without individual responsibility, without behaviour that protects the individual and the community as a whole. And I am sure that this concept of responsibility, responsibility and not as a fault, will be embraced by the Greek society and that, now that we may be facing the most difficult days, in the darkest days, we will be able to overcome this great difficulty as well, to get winners out of this battle with as few wounds as possible, so that in 2021 it will be the year of the great re-start and the year that we will have definitively left behind this unprecedented adventure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u16	It is now up to Mr. Alexis Tsipras, Head of Officer's Representation and President of the Radical Left- Progressive Alliance Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mitsotakis has had an opportunity today to show that he feels the criticalness of the moments. He had a chance to show that he understands the pressure the middle Greek family accepts today. He had an opportunity to prove, not to the MPs, but to the Greek people who are listening to him today, who is locked up for the second time in the house, how he understands that in these critical hours he must have the responsibility, courage, empathy and empathy to speak unitedly to the political parties and to take the share of the responsibility he deserves, since he so much likes eight months, now, to constantly refer to individual responsibility. This country has eleven million individual responsibilities, as much as its citizens. Only one has no responsibility, Mr. Mitsotakis. Neither individual responsibility nor political responsibility. I would therefore expect today that I do not hear a speech bisecting and provoking. Because Mr Mitsotakis' speech was challenging. He was a battalionist, he was provocative, he was incoherent. We have heard a mix of apology and divisive rhetoric towards the political parties. And I would expect this very self-evident and very human to take place, what, in a sense of sincerity, did the Minister of Development - is not in the Chair today, Mr Georgiadis - in a television show yesterday, when journalists repeatedly asked him 'but, well, you have no responsibility at all'. In a glimpse of sincerity he said the very human, the very simple thing: 'We fell out'! How hard is it to say two words? "We went out." "We went out with the opening of tourism," he told us. We ran into the pandemic spread. We're out! Of course, after your constant and persistent efforts - you have become even more ridiculous, especially in the media that support you, four times changed the title of his statement, but there is the video - you are coming today and that is the first thing you are telling us. You are the Prime Minister of a country that counts every day over forty dead. You are the Prime Minister of a country that has succeeded and we were the first ones to say so - I believed in this government - that when we have a success of the country it is a success of the government. When was that? It was May, June. What do you come and compare, though? What exactly do you compare? Compare those countries that in March, February, April, May were found with hundreds of dead and a spread in the community, which was equivalent to the current dispersion in northern Greece, with the ones we had managed to keep the virus out of the community? What exactly do you compare? And you came to tell us what today? We have no responsibility for opening up tourism. No responsibility. Because what were we supposed to do? Shouldn't we open the tourism? You are constantly referring to my own statements. Yes, I was telling you that you don't have a plan from May on how to open tourism. That's exactly what I was saying. And when tourism opened without a plan, foreigners, with different sanitary criteria from an entrance gateway, we told you you were wrong. We have told you that you are wrong that you are not asking for, that you do not require single health protocols and a minimum requirement. We didn't tell you not to open up. We said whoever enters the country has a test, if not thirty - eight, seventy - two hours, as you did at Promachona after a celebration and as you do now. Now you legislated that. You told us it couldn't be. But now that we are on the edge of the cliff, you have legislated it. And you come here today by this Step to make us an arbitrary assumption that if we did that, we would - it says - 10% of revenue. Where do you base this assumption? What scientist will come to confirm for that too? Tell us. Who? What's that counting on? On what given, if not on speculation? And I want to tell you that you're lying here too. It's not 5 billion pounds of tourism. It was 2.5 until the end of August. According to SETE, with official figures, 3 to 3.5 billion will reach tourist income. You know, based on yours - I'm not saying our own estimates - how much does the Minister of Finance himself cost the total lockdown for every month that passes? 2.5% to 3% of GDP. In other words, it's 4 to 5.5 billion the cost in the economy. So is there no responsibility for tourism? Did you do everything right? Isn't there any responsibility for complacentness? It was you, wasn't it? Which country do we live in? Unless I live in another country, Mr. Mitsotakis, and I'm sorry, I mean, but I don't understand where I am. Weren't you the ones going out and saying we beat the coroner? Didn't you make a finesse in Santorini, in the sunset, and call the tourists, saying, "We beat the coroner?" You say that 'we didn't boast that we won't. But you have done nothing but try to make use of and trust politically the positive course of the country, in which all Greek citizens and all political parties contributed positively. That's what you did. You proclaimed yourself as a mediator. Some media said: "Moses who saved us." You were able to interview how difficult, but catalytic, it was your decision. You did not say: 'Fortunately it is me and it is not Tsipras, why would we have more dead'? Didn't you say that? Yeah, you said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u18	The whole of Greece says so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u19	Whether all Greece says so, you should go and tell the families who have at the moment lost people, Mr Levane. Tell it to the mourning families. Tell the people who are right now with the white shirt in the hospitals, the doctors, and make a choice which people will put for regular surgery. Tell them and let go of complacentness. But when you say so, you confirm my words, that you tried to speculate politically on the health crisis and human suffering. Well, it wasn't the first time you did it, but that's what you did. And you come today and you say the same again. You're saying you didn't make almost any mistakes. You say it's the young people's fault. You told us again. So, if you'll excuse me, that's where you only track young people the spread of the virus? The fun of young people? Apparently, there's also there. There's no doubt about it. However, is there no spread of the virus due to the fact that every day thousands of people in large cities, especially in Athens and Thessaloniki, are pasted like sardines in public transport, in the metro, in buses? For you did not provide eight months, you were barely canceling invitations to tender for seven hundred fifty buses that we had left. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] And you didn't go any further...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u20	Don't scratch on the slut!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u21	Please, no vacation!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u22	You don't like what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u23	Please, no vacation!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u24	So we'll see now. Leave the characterizations on the side. It is a dramatic treaty experienced by the Greek citizen. Here too, we need to hear the arguments and answer them. You've got Chief, after all, he can answer them, I think. So here you have to answer us: Only young people? Any responsibility for crowding in public transport? Any responsibility for opening schools? While in other countries, in neighbouring Italy, a great effort has been made with thousands of new rooms, with single strands and a reduction in the number of students per class, you have legislated in the summer to increase the number of students per class in elementary school, in the midst of a pandemic! Any responsibility for that too? No responsibility for this too. Therefore, only young people and only there is the spread of the virus. In workplaces, which we had in structuring cases throughout Greece, with hundreds of cases? In workplaces where there were no protection measures anywhere? Wasn't there a thing? Just the young people who have fun? And I think, Mr Mitsotakis - and I will say this with awareness of my words, and this is perhaps the most critical problem, because you are the Prime Minister of the country - that you are not aware of how the majority of citizens live in our country. Because the majority of young people are not the model you have in mind, which only thinks how it will entertain and how it will go in the evening to have a party. Maybe you in your surroundings see such young children. The majority of young people today are in unemployment, they are in insecurity, they have no jobs, they have no prospects. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And it was not the only case - let me have the word 'false' - which demonstrates that you have no picture, knowing which country you are governing. You referred to the letter you made yesterday saying that you understand that there is part of the population - listen, listen! - that's dependent on his salary! Hey, what can we do, Mr. Mitsotakis? The majority is that, the majority of our fellow citizens! Yeah, it's not the majority of people around us with bank deposits, business managers or manage offshore. What can we do? The majority of our fellow citizens are dependent on wages! And the small ones who close their shops are dependent on this income. And what do they get? They don't get anything. The middle class that you made her flagged to rise to power? You made her a middle class flag! Go talk to a group of small and medium-sized enterprises today. In restaurants, people who are trying very hard to get through, tell these people that the measures you are taking are effective. You gave a TV interview, on the occasion of the Greek-Arab Forum, in which you said the following innumerable and incomprehensible: "It will be possible to develop immediately after the discovery of the vaccine in our country, because the Greeks are saving and increasing savings". What do the Greeks save? With the 534 euros they take the month to live four and five months? With an increase in unemployment of 20 thousand this semester, is the Greeks saving? Which country do you live in? You know, that's, if you want, more painful than the propaganda effort to make things look good. Because one understands propaganda. He understands. However, seeing the country's Prime Minister does not understand which country is problematic, entirely problematic! So you told us this morning, incoherent and inconsistent, that as many intensive treatment units as we could have, they would have ended sometime and we would have taken measures. So you did fine for not raising them enough. So why don't you remove the ones you have? Why don't you remove the ones you have?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u25	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u26	But is that a point? Is what the country's Prime Minister says from this point of view when patients are sorted out?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u27	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u28	Sit down now. Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u29	Please, be quiet! No vacation allowed, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u30	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Kikilia, don't let go! I'll come to you too because you've made an excellent appearance as a new Minister. You've been missing for eight months! Disappeared! Health crisis scary and not once did you come out to inform the citizens! And you got out the other day. You accidentally got out the day before yesterday! So don't let go! You will hear the criticism today. You will hear the criticism. You tell me not to compare and make any comparison today to the evidence - which is not mys - of the ECDC, the World Health Organisation, what? Prove what? The rapid increase in cases and deaths in our country since June, which no one disputes. However, do not speak of abusiveness, Mr Mitsotakis, when you, throughout the very first phase of the pandemic, have constantly compared the dead and intrinsic to Greece and the other countries every day, and when you here from this Step of the House, are celebrating the reality, in the debate on the bankruptcy law that we brought you to the House - while you did not want to come - by putting forward a motion of censure to the Minister of Finance, you mentioned the pandemic and brought us tables, to compare how well we are going because we have fewer dead in Greece than those who have in the neighbouring countries of Europe. Isn't that a hurricane? I would therefore fully agree with you that we leave this macabre comparison and go to the point. What's the point? The point is, there was a criminal complacentness on your part in September, October and before, where you celebrated that we defeated the coronary and opened the way you opened tourism and led the way you led things to go where we were today. Because I am telling you again not to compare with Europe that was then continuing, in June, when we had very few cases, to have hundreds of cases, thousands of cases and throughout the summer. At the same time, I tell you, Mr Mitsotakis, that what you have done all this time was not to strengthen the National Health System, but to pursue a policy. A policy that you, of course, say is your policy, your programme, what you were elected for. But this program is anti-liberal, it is anti-social, and you should have the empathy in conditions of pandemic crisis and health crisis at least to suspend it. So you left the vast majority of businesses in their fate without any substantial aid measures. You left the workers at the mercy of the crisis, legislating the suspension of contracts and the legalisation of unpaid overtime work. You've launched the redundancies, the recession. One out of ten employees lives with less than 200 euros. Approximately - so they say the statistics - EUR 4 billion from the available income. At the same time, all the previous period - and I am solely responsible for the national health system - you have not made any substantial aid. Obviously, you increased the intensive care units - there is no doubt about that - not the numbers you say. For you have done the following alchemy: Add to what we left you with those units for private, private hospitals, beds for private nurses - one hundred and fifty-eighty - those beds for military hospitals, for military hospitals, special beds, special intensive care units that were side by side in the system. If you want to talk about the essence, the real increase in intensive beds after the beginning of the pandemic - because before the beginning you did not have a new bed - was about two hundred beds. And now we are going to see this: is it a question of beds and in public hospitals only the question of strengthening the National Health System? The House has given — and rightly so, Mr President - financial aid for 50 beds to be made at the Salvation Hospital. How many runs today?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u32	All fifty!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u33	Mr Kaklamanis, the Vice-President of Parliament, said last week that nine operate. And why? Because the problem is personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u34	Mr. President, we had nine incidents...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u35	Because since the start of the crisis...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u36	This is the first time in the history of the ERC...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u37	Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u38	You'll answer, you'll answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u39	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u40	You'll answer! So the problem right now is the lack of staffing of the National Health System. And the lack of staffing of the National Health System lies in the fact that you categorically refuse to go ahead with a design of essential recruitments and particularly permanent recruitments to medical and nursing staff. I think the most characteristic of all the graphs that deserves to see and testify in the Minutes is the graph concerning the staff of the Ministry of Health, the National Health System. It's from the census of the Greek government's human resources register. It shows, therefore, the human potential throughout the whole health system and concerns permanent and contractors in September 2019, shortly after we handed over the National Health System that was not a pandemic and September 2020. So you will see that in September 2019 there were over 100 thousand employees, permanent and contractors, while in September 2020 there were ninety-four thousand four hundred and twenty-four. I think that's the most characteristic [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] However, it is also characteristic, and is worth it, that you should see the comparison - let us not catch this macabre comparison, Mr Mitsotakis, as regards deaths - but see how much the national health system has been strengthened in other European Union countries and how much it has been strengthened in Greece. I therefore take two countries which were indeed champions, if you like, in the spread of the virus, in Spain and Italy. So it seems that we have 5.3 billion for Spain, 3.3 billion for Italy and 230 million for Greece alone. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] See what was the increase in intensive care units in France, which, unfortunately, is in a very bad state. Of the five thousand, the intensive care units went to eight thousand. So, here, the crucial issue is that no matter what we did, no matter how much we increase the units, would we have a lockdown again? Is that the answer? And I want to come to the point. Because I, Mr Mitsotakis, will not only remain in that you have lost the ball and cannot manage it - it seems - when the Minister of State comes out of one, and says alpha, the government representative goes out and says beta and the Prime Minister comes out the next day and says "gamma," it means that you cannot agree with each other. One says there's never gonna be a lockdown and the other says there's no case at all. Is this within 24 hours? In twenty-four hours is the virus's transmission being increased at such a high speed? You can't consult each other here! But I am not going to insist on that, because I believe that the problem is deeper. The problem is strategic, Mr. Mitsotakis. The problem is strategic. You're not strengthening the National Health System, because you have another perception. You do not even go into a permanent recruitment of staff to the National Health System, because you have another perception. Because your programme was public-private contracts. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Listen to me. It is worthwhile to tackle strategic issues and ideological issues, if you like. It's worth it. It's not a question of whether one element is alpha or the other element is beta. They're strategic issues. You do not support the National Health System, because your basic concept - and before the pandemic and it goes on and on now - is that the ESS is for flying and that it will be restored not through its strengthening, not through the recruitment of permanent, nursing and medical staff, not through the reform of the wages and the increase in wages so that there are incentives for doctors to come - because we have a problem that doctors - but through public-private partnerships, that is to say, through the possibility of providing private individuals to come and make use of the ERC infrastructure to win. That's why you don't want to increase permanent staff. You do not want to increase it because in your planning tomorrow this will be a burden. Because the permanent staff you want to replace with the staff of private individuals. And in all this crisis, we have seen the one-sided oneness that holds you. So hard was it to prescribe diagnostic tests and let the 1/3 of the world with the need for a test to go to private nurses and pay 80 and 100 euros out of his pocket? Why? Because that is your understanding. At the moment, while we are talking, Thessaloniki broadcasts SOS and it is not a matter of statistics and alchemys to say that beds are empty because we take beds from the non-COVID treatment units. That's what you did, Mr. Kicilia. He's not here. He's gone. Maybe he accepted my proposal. It's not a solution because, you know, right now, it's sorting. This morally critical process of patient selection is done. Do you know who's going on? It's not happening in CIVID patients for time, thankfully - although I'm not very optimistic, the way the data go - but it's done in non-COVID patients, when it's suspended by 80%... Mr. Mitsotakis and Mr. Kiklia, I was saying that at this hour, at the critical time, a sorting is taking place. And doctors are sorted out for patients who have no coronary because when regular surgery is suspended by 80%, you understand what is happening. Apparently, it's not the emergency, but none of our fellow citizens have a regular surgery for fun. He's suffering, it hurts. He has to deal with a very serious illness and the doctor is at a difficult time to choose which patient will lead to surgery and with others to play the risk. And that is precisely because the National Health System has not been strengthened throughout the past eight months, which you have had the opportunity to do. And of course, applauding these people is good. We all applauded them. But I go almost every week and I see them and I speak with them and they cry out screaming. This cry of agony won't drown, as it drowned in the first phase of the pandemic. This cry of anxiety will be heard in the last Greek house. These people say, then, that they are many times overworked. They say these people, nurses and nurses, that they are nights next to dozens of people, whether suspects have a coronary or a coronary disease, for 8,5 euros! And I ask you, Mr Mitsotakis: will we move on to a plan essential to support these people and the health system? Let's agree to the minimum. And don't tell me: "You were Prime Minister too", Mrs. Bakoyannis. If I understand correctly, is that what you said?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u41	I didn't say anything, Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u42	Okay, Mrs. Bakoyannis, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u43	We don't understand through the masks. Don't talk, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u44	There are masks now, and I can't understand what you're saying. So I say that we have ruled in memorial conditions, just as you have before. And let's compare what our government did in memorial conditions and previous governments, when Mr. Georgiadis came out and said, "I will not get the glory of the Troika" and "I will be the one who will first cut permanent staff from the ESS" and put 5 euros on external medical services and not accept public hospitals uninsured. We in conditions of fiscal crisis, fiscal suffocation, Blonde and Paulakis, whom you so muchly oppose, make mistakes, but in his term in the Ministry of Health, like Andreas Xanthos, they have only one positive task to show. In budgetary suffocation we have come and increased by EUR 1 billion the annual expenditure on the National Health System. In conditions of fiscal suffocation, we came in - and had no coronary - and increased by a hundred and fifty beds in intensive care units. There was no coronary. In budgetary suffocation, we brought nineteen and a half thousand workers, permanent and contracted to the national health system. In conditions of fiscal suffocation, we were redefining the budgets of public hospitals that were all deficits. In budgetary suffocation, we were the ones who reformed primary health care by making dozens of TOMY - primary health units - all over Greece, when you were coming back then and said: 'But what is it? Is this a reform?’ And in conditions of fiscal suffocation, we were the ones who enabled a million and a half uninsured people to enter public hospitals without having to prove they have insurance information. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Imagine today that hadn't happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u45	Lie! It was done beforehand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Not a vacation. We're getting pretty good so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think anyone knows where to start and where to end today, because there is too much to say. But I will come and tell you, I think, the most crucial thing we have to get out of this debate. I wish, Mr Mitsotakis, that I too had an Opposition like the one you have today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u48	You're laughing, huh? You're laughing! When the country was in an emergency, when we were on the edge of the cliff, what did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u49	We voted for the memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u50	You said "old man, Gerun!" You, Mr. Mitsotakis! That's what you did. You said "old man, Gerun!" You asked for elections and for the resignation of the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u51	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u52	When the country was in front of critical times, we had an Opposition...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u53	These holidays are not recorded. It's for nothing. Please be quiet. Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u54	What you say has not been done under the chairmanship of Mr Mitsotakis. Mr. Mitsotakis was the most extreme Chief of Antipopulation that passed through the Greek Parliament. He asked for elections for three and a half consecutive years. That's what he did. [[Noise in the Chamber]] And exploit any hard time. He did not even hesitate to use very bad moments - I recall: tragedies, dead - as he did not hesitate - and it is the most classic example that one can give - to the Prespecies Agreement, which Mr Zaev is now coming and says is honouring, that he keeps it and that he is fighting, to be next to those who said it is treacherous. So let go of your opposition. All I want to remind you is that you had come to this Chamber - in an irrelevant bill, of course, in an irrelevant debate - and you denounced the Minister of Health Blonde and I that we have a responsibility because we have had forty deaths all year round from the flu virus. You told us features - there are also the Minutes - that we have a responsibility for these forty fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u55	Four hundred, not forty.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u56	It was forty.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u57	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u58	When did I say that, Mr. Tsipras?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u59	Come on! I'll get you the minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u60	Do you have the Minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u61	Leave that funny, Mr. Mitsotakis. When I speak to the House, I am fully documented in what I say and you are constantly trying to cover yourself later, with the support of some media that you have ever financed. That was the opposition you made to us. We did not follow this path, and we did not follow this path by feeling the responsibility and feeling that we should be primarily useful in Greek society, because these are the values and principles of our own party, the Left, the democratic area. It's not the horror with the dead, as you did in March, it's not the horror of the flu dead, it's not the fury and the other opposition. And in the first phase of the pandemic we set back and supported measures which at the time seemed too much to us. We supported them to the end, and now that's what we're doing. But beware: we cannot put back on the dissolution of society, we cannot put back on and give an alibi to the burglary of social cohesion and constant amnesia, constant complacentness, constant inertia and oligopoly to the strengthening of the protection of public health, which is the National Health System. We can't keep doing that. So I asked you to admit your failure as a first step to regain the confidence of the Greek people. The admission of failure, the admission of error is an act of responsibility and bravery. You didn't do it today. You don't want to do it, saying 'I'm responsible'? Do you not want to do it, saying 'I fell out', 'we went out', as Mr Georgiadis said yesterday? Do it another way. Say it in Latin, as the late Andreas Papandreou said "mea cuulpa". Find a way. We gave you this opportunity snugly, and what did we tell you? Recognise criminal flaws and serious mistakes, unthinkable reassurance and ask the help of the political forces, do not denounce them. You are not just divising Parliament. The bishop is not about opposition parties. It is about the citizens who listen to you today and fight. I have asked you to admit failure, to convene a Council of Political Heads, not to let us know. We don't need you to let us know. We are better aware of the current situation, the suffocation of the National Health System, the situation in which doctors, nurses, are found, the situation in which the average Greek household is, with the agony for tomorrow. To go to a Council of Political Heads not for us to be informed, but to agree on a rescue plan and obviously not a confrontation, Mr Mitsotakis. We won't save you. You cannot be saved as you have done it in the economy, in society, no matter how much the media supports you. It's a bubble that. But, first of all for us at this time, it is not to say 'you leave now and elections', because people die at this time when we talk to intensive care units. The first thing we have to say is to change your strategy at least now and ask for our help and for a six-month plan, with support to permanent staff in the National Health System, not with patches. Do you know what the greatest assumption of your failure was? That after the crisis, when we got to the edge of the cliff, you have brought an amendment here to the House for three hundred recruits of permanent intensifiers. That's after the crisis. Two things we told you eight months: Recruitment and measures at the entrance gates, tourism and you did them the other day after we crossed the limit of the red alert. That was the greatest assumption of failure. The second biggest was the assumption of Mr Georgiadis. The third was all that she does - because I forgot to refer to it - Mrs Keramea next to you, Mr Kiilia. The masks are a big success, aren't they? The masks in the schools and the ice cucumbers, the tweezers' masks! But the worst part isn't that. The Court of Auditors is now coming and is postponing the tender because you did not have the opportunity to submit the necessary documents. That's the kind of shit you've done. And you come out and move our finger as to the overriding failure with 'SISCO', the digital platform. And you say to us: 'But throughout Europe.' Europe-wide with regard to 'SISCO'. But no other country and no other Ministry of Education across Europe has given 100% of the education process to the public to a provider. None! There were, therefore, minor problems, because there were problems with the server in the United Kingdom, but no other country had given 100% of the procedure to a provider. You did it. No other country had left without strengthening the public network, the public platform, the school network, the pan-Hellenic we have here. And we're not the only ones who tell you. We and Mr. Friends have been telling you since summer, and KINAL tells you: Bring the contract to the House. Why don't you bring her to the House? Let's see exactly what you signed with this company. She's so generous and she's giving us her services for free? If capitalism is overestimated, okay, to change the visa, dear Demetris, for capitalism, but maybe something else is hidden. Why don't you bring the contract to the House? We're waiting for you to bring the contract to the House. I'll go. I don't want to get any further. On the basis of this emergency, we have asked you for three things: to draw up a plan to save the National Health System and our people, even now. All of us agree to a Secretary of State for Health with knowledge, credibility, experience, which will not make a micropolicy to salvage his political capital at the time of the crisis, but will implement the extraordinary plan that we will have agreed. And we didn't tell you to put a member of ours. No, that's not what we told you. Mr. Kikilia, I have nothing personal to do with you. You've been overrun by the crisis. You hid eight months behind a worthy scientist, Mr. Chiodra. He's not the only one in this country. He's not the only one, and he's making mistakes. We all make mistakes. People make mistakes. Mr. Mitsotakis could use you to make you a Minister of Sports. You were a basketball player. You'll be better than Mr. Ausgakis. But, Minister for Health in this crisis, eight months missing and coming to 'and five' to blame the opposition instead of presenting a plan to tackle the crisis? Of course there are worthwhile joint acceptance scientists, which we could agree, if you agree to draft a joint acceptance plan to save the health system in the 'fresh' of anti-grass bills, not all of your programme. Is it possible to apply what you voted yesterday, the bankruptcy law, to put it into practice in the midst of the crisis and that there are people who are called at the same time to be in quarantine, but to take their home? The self-evident thing we asked you to do, as at the same time as to "frozen" your design in the next period to bring an anti-government bill to the vote. We asked you for self-evident things. So there are people who could play this role, if that is your question and not our executives. I'll offer you Mrs. Athena Linou, the professor of medicine. It was not absent throughout the crisis. She was present. It did not go out on September 30th to say that in Thessaloniki there is no problem because Thessaloniki has heard us and that here in Athens we are to blame. He said 'everything'. He said "everyone masks". In any case, would you like someone else? Come and find someone else. But stop this nonsense hiding supposedly that you are with science and that we here are the ones who underestimate science. There are dozens of worthwhile scientists at our place who can now play a role, not to hide behind them and hide our political responsibilities, but to show us what we need to do and criticise us when they need to criticise us. In any case, Mr Mitsotakis, however, your constant and current refusal to accept the help that the opposition and political forces of the country offer you does not only mean arrogance. It's also a choice of self-destruction. But we do not care about your own self-destructive course. We are concerned that we are losing valuable time to save what is saved in Greek society, whether it is about human lives or about social cohesion, because at this time the vast majority of our society is squeezing, and all you do is continue to move the finger and say "I have not been blamed for anything and it is all the others' fault".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u62	It is now Mrs Fofi Gennimata, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last nine months, our lives have been defined by the coronary. It requires us to live differently, to work differently, to think differently, even to love differently. We get to the point where we think it's safe and if we have to hug our children. Unfortunately, it is clear from the debate so far that one thing is not changing with anything. The obsession of the government and of the Officer's Response to improper cohortry and in this climate of tension, polarization and division. It's completely uncomfortable right now. I would like to begin by sending a message of solidarity, above all, to those who give their fight for their lives in intensive care units, to hospital beds, but also to those who give the battle for life, to the health staff of the National Health System. There's no doubt that the first wave of pandemic was a meeting with fear, with the unknown, with insecurity. We all put our backs on. We're home. We heard the experts. What did we do with the first quarantine? We actually gave the government and the state time to organise it at all levels, because it had to organise a new daily life, obviously with the priority of strengthening and supporting the National Health System. We stayed home, but we didn't sit with crossed hands, at least we, the Change Movement. We proposed that the National Health System should be supported, how society and the economy could stand up, how the transition from the first quarantine to the opening of the country should be made, how tourism should be started, how our daily lives, as I said before, with priority for public transport - a word I did not hear about them, but I will come back - and schools. Why? Because we had to delay as long as possible and reduce the spread of the virus and thus the coming of the second wave. I shall therefore be tabling a motion for a resolution on the Minutes, because I do not have time to talk about all of this, all the treatments we have done. I begin with the question we were addressing, the Change Movement, on 22 January 2020 to the Minister of Health when the problems had begun in China and long before the domestic debate began. We asked how the country would be prepared and what would happen at the country's entrances and all that. I shall, therefore, begin the filing of the documents by that. I continue with the 50 interventions made by the Parliamentary Group on all the issues of the daily lives of Greek citizens, from his health to the economy and support for the weakest and the smallest. For, in good words, populism and demagogy, but we need practical support with very specific proposals that we have submitted for many months and we are fighting for them, we do not throw them out as a fait accompli, but we are fighting them from this here every day with our entire parliamentary group. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] I'm continuing with the mid-term program. What should we do from the time the restrictions started, precisely because we knew that these restrictions would hit the weakest, middle-class and small-sized ones. I'll testify to our proposal. Some of these proposals from the government were adopted slowly to torture. Of course, most have not been followed by visible consequences, both with padlocks and with unemployment and with multiple risks. I will table the proposals from 21 May on what had to be done with the end of the lockdown for the economy. I will submit our proposal for the regeneration of the National Health System on September 3, because I see that they've been caught all of a sudden. All those who in practice ruled fought it with nails and teeth. Some people were glad to say that we had to cut it to pieces and give it to private interests, and that's why they've already embezzled it, and it was ready to collapse, while some were hiding behind supposedly great words, but that's where things led to the collapse. Of course I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that if he had hired nineteen thousand, Mr. Tsipras to the National Health System and another thirteen thousand, why are we looking for doctors to operate today in hospitals and intensive care units? [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] I suggest we start exporting them, because I hear the systems are being pressed around. Because you say it's very substantiated what is said by this Step by the party leaders, so I heard it. So take the proposals for the National Health System. [[At this point the President of the Movement of Change Mr. Fotini (Phot) Gennamata presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] I continue with our proposal for the Recovery Fund because we are not enough on what needs to be done in the intermediate part of Lockdown until we open. But since Europe has finally managed to agree on this Recovery Fund, how will Greece be prepared and exploited in the best possible way and, above all, not only how, but also for whom? Because I hear various nonsense that there is no longer the struggle of classes, there is no "right", "left", there is no progress or maintenance. But there is very well progress or maintenance and interests of the few and strong and weak and small and medium-sized ones in conflict depending on how the resources of the Recovery Fund will be used in Greece as well. We, therefore, have taken a clear and clear position on how this money should be used and on behalf of the people of the middle class, the small and medium-sized and the weakest. I'll testify for the Minutes. Of course, we have also tabled proposals on how schools should safely be opened in line with what all the other countries of Europe have done. I'll testify for the Minutes. We have proposals aimed at how the focus sector should be supported. They're ruined! We will return to our home today and know that beyond our concern some issues are solved. This is not the case for too many people in Greece. And beyond human life this must be our second great concern, this must unite us, so we must work in this Chamber, kill each other on how to support these areas that are being destroyed today. I'll testify for the focus. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] I come to our programme for supporting cultural activity. Greece cannot be without culture. And culture, of course, are our ancients, but that's not all. There is a world that is destroyed, which is suffering, which cannot live, theatres and cinemas and triumphs that if they close, they will not be able to open again when they stop the lockdown and so we must bend over them and see what is to be done. We have said very specific things, read them, listen them, I will submit them to the Minutes of the House. Of course, what has to be done with public transport. The world is stacking, it's on each other, the government is afraid to say the word 'via mass transport'. I will come back to the proposals, because repetition is the mother of learning, but I will table what we have said so far to have been in the Minutes, because that is not what we are talking about, today, for months. I therefore put the proposals on public transport and all the others in the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Change Movement, Mr. Fotini (Phot) Gennamata, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Listen, ladies and gentlemen, the moments we are living are historic and that is why it is very important and crucial that each one of us be recorded in the Minutes of this House, because at some point after too many years all this will be sought and it must be known to the next generations in the battle of our own generation and era what each one has done and how he has placed himself not to the government, to the Greek people. In two words, Prime Minister, you also had proposals, you had time, you had unlimited social support, you had money for the first time in Greece after too many years - because there were no restrictions - you had total support from the whole political system to take your measures and not lead us to this new adventure, at least not to drive with this vigour and so fast. The question is not whether there was a need now for the new lockdown, since it is clear that your situation has escaped and in fact has been and has to be. The question is, Mr Mitsotakis, why did we come to the point of being necessary? Is it imperative, unavoidable? And don't ask us if you had to have made up your mind earlier and enforced them. If, Mr Mitsotakis, your scientists said that you should have imposed them earlier, you did not listen to them and you were late.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u64	But they didn't tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u65	If they didn't tell you, I don't know why you're insulting it. In any case, it is not the responsibility of the Anti-Population to propose such measures, because if we had done so, without publicising what is happening, then we would all be accused of sowing panic and concern in the world. So to the extent that everything is said responsibly and seriously. The government's responsibility is to decide which time such restrictions must be imposed which have direct effects on the economy. What did you do from everything you should have done? You let the time flow. You sent the government a vacation in June and were indeed photographed in the wonderful sunset of Santorini. The point is, was the country finally helped by all this? Is tourism better today? Does he make sure his next year in 2021? What is today's situation with hotel owners and workers in them? That's for another conversation. Let us confine ourselves to what we have come here for. So you knew, Prime Minister, very well what you had to do to keep the country's advantage, the enormous benefit it had in health and economic terms to all other European countries. You know what you had to do to avoid disappointing the Greek people, who sacrificed once again, because the first lockdown is many who paid it very much, but they did so proudly, they did it with hope, they did it with expectation, saying "Hey, our country stands out. She's the first in Europe. It's okay if I get economically difficult. It's okay if I had to close my shop. I'm proud, because I did it." And don't be foolish today is not the climate in the Greek people. It has nothing to do with the psychological situation of the Greeks today with the initial first lockdown in spring. It's not like spring's coming in. There's a rough one coming in. Obviously, none of you expected, but none of you, Mr. Mitsotakis and your government, to face the coronary that plagues humanity. Now don't charge us any more of these jokes, because we've heard them and they've been said. But what we were expecting - and we, and above all the Greek people in particular - was to see a government that is trying to shut down every carpet. And you, instead of closing doors and windows, opened the door. How? With the relaxation message you've given yourself, with the unconditional opening of the borders. You opened the land borders and at least for one, maybe a month and a half, there was no control. And you knew what the problem was in the other neighbouring countries of the Balkans. Even on flight trips, delayed checks began. They came from England where there was such a big problem and they did not carry out any checks. They went to the islands and waited for the test to come out and go back two and three days to the shops and take a vacation and then they found out they were positive! Inconceivable things took place during the summer! There have been limited tests and, of course, inability to support and staff the National Health System. As for the Salvation, even the fifty do not work. I spoke just now with the Salvation. There was a delayed activation of primary care. It was crowded daily in public transport and, of course, in schools. There was indifference in the nursing homes. It's amazing what's going on in the nursing homes! You knew it all along. We called it from March: "Get a test at the nursing homes! Take measures!' As in the structures of immigrants: you brought them to the center of Athens and went back to Athens, in the public transport, having a coronary. They also went back to all hospitals. And you knew it! Last time I told you here, your partners were pulling your head down. And we have not finally heard a word of self-criticism about all of this, not a single word about all of it. Do you know what that means? It means you're not willing to do anything about all this. Nothing will change again! And what happens when this quarantine ends? Are we going to be back in the same place and just wait for the next one? Are we gonna wait to see which of us are the unfortunate ones going to get stuck, get sick and probably lose their lives? So, where's the plan? If what I'm describing is not seeing and doing, what else is it? And the worst part of all is that you're just trying to cover up all of this by supplying your own propaganda the subsidized, with enough money from you, the media. I will come back for that too. Listen, Prime Minister, arrogance and authoritarianism are bad counsellors at these critical times, as are the divisional speech and polarization. They don't fit when people's lives are at stake. On the contrary, one is the enemy, the coroner. Let's finally figure it out! In order to deal with him, however, we must first of all tell the truth. Because, if you want, it is the only way to regain the confidence of Greek citizens, as, to highlight problems, mistakes and prevent unpleasant developments. So what have you done, Prime Minister, with the tests? I remember from this step that I said 'test, test and test'. I said it, I heard it. We remain the last among the fifteen Western European countries to test by population ratio. I am tabling the relevant table for the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Movement of Change, Mr. Fotini (Phot) Gennamas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] You made the health security map. It was a positive development. But at some point, we told you that you made it nice, but besides watching the green areas, too, becoming orange and finally red, what is the use of this painting? You said they were excesses, populism, opposition to the opposition. So I'll tell you what the problem was. This sanitary map was not accompanied by random sampling. That is what it was necessary, because we could only have real knowledge of dispersal in each region. And that's not what I'm saying. Scientists say it every day in public dialogue. And I'm going to tell you a very special example of Grevena. One week you presented on the Grevena map as the only green regional unit in Macedonia. Here's a document. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Movement of Change, Mr. Fotini (Phot) Gennamas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] A week later, random sampling was finally carried out by the EGE in Grevenna and the real and unconscious problem appeared to be apparent. 31.5% of the people who did the test were positive. That's a very high number. Do you realize what happened in the area this week when these people thought it was the only green unity and were circulating everywhere free until the week when they knew they had too many positive ones? Do you understand how it spread, how you were dispersed with your responsibility, why did these sampling checks not take place in time, in the wider area? I am tabling the relevant document on the control of the EGE and its result in the Grevenes. [[At this point the President of the Movement of Change Mr. Fotini (Phot) Gennamata presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I come to the third point where the tracking is. Is a country's adequacy in tracing cases from which it's assessed? Of the so-called 'orphan cases'. The more the 'orphan cases' are, the more the bell hits us that somewhere we lose control of the situation, that the tracking we do is not effective, that we have a problem somewhere. So let's see what happened in our country. Already since 21 August, when the number of cases was very low, the rate of 'orphan cases' was 44.1%. All month in September the 'orphan cases' were over 50%. On October 30, they reached 69.7% and on November 9, 83.6%. These are indicators that prove complete inability to control the pandemic. Did you have that evidence? We found them now, looking for them. In Greece, at the Tracing Centre of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, they are working in a fierce way and we congratulate them - you have congratulated them too many times - a hundred ninety people and you wait until the end of November to get another hundred ninety two. Do you know how many we should have for tracking, in accordance with the CDC guidelines, if we wanted to be in line with them? Ten times the number. I therefore present the relevant table with the percentage of 'orphan cases' in our country. [[At this point the President of the Movement of Change, Mr. Fotini (Phot) Gennamata, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Ladies and gentlemen, despite the encouraging news about the production of the vaccine, it is clear that the path we have before us is both upside and difficult. It's not enough intermittent and continuous lockdown. We urgently need a plan from the government. And obviously the country has a government and democracy has rules. We respect democracy and its rules. The government that has a fresh mandate also has a responsibility to deal with matters and bring its plan and proposals. The counterpopulation of what he can do is to continue to press, as documented as he can, to prevent him from healing - even afterward if he cannot prevent - to deal with mistakes and to try to make the government as effective as possible. These are the rules of democracy. So this plan - I am coming back - has not seen it exist to date. It is characteristic that four hours before the ban was imposed, the Government Representative said there was no possibility of lockdown in Attica. You're out. I'm not saying it. Minister tells you. So each of us will be judged in battle according to its own responsibility. We support the proposals and decisions of scientists. Clear words, from the first moment, clear, public, unstoppable. We're across the negatives of the virus and the mask. We believe that in this difficult period, despite disagreements, objections, fatigue, suspicion, we must support measures so that we can deal with this second wave of pandemic as effectively as possible and with the fewer problems. We do not share the war speech in the politics of those who choose government and Civic Opposition over people who are in danger of losing their lives. It is another thing to criticise the government's mistakes and omissions and another thing to divide the population into battletime. We will, in the first instance, continue to speak courageously of our opinion and our disagreements. We're not going to give up on the second one. We're not involved in polarization. We are here, with responsibility, with positions and suggestions. We therefore need a plan - not other semi-metres and even delays - on the one hand, to strengthen the National Health System and, on the other, to provide brave financial support for workers, businesses and, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises. We therefore propose, as always, immediate implementation measures, starting with the strengthening of the National Health System: single coordination and electronic monitoring of beds and intensive care units in public hospitals, military hospitals and the private health sector. We also propose an electronic announcement of the availability, open data, because either we have or do not have a state, anyway, in this country, because open and public information is also a question of democracy, it is also about control and accountability, and in such critical times the government must have its priority to being as transparent as possible. So this information must be public, known to every citizen, not just to the political parties. It is not politics that an elite is somehow in agreement with one another and I do not know on what basis. We are representatives elected by the Greek people, and we account for them, and each of us's attitude confirms whether we believe this deeply within us and whether it can trust us. We further propose integrating all medical equipment donated to the plants that can use it. Until two days ago we learned about donations, respirators, which are still in boxes in Thessaloniki, which are in "red", which is tested, suffering. I hope that's changed at the time we're talking. And if it hasn't changed now, it has to change as soon as possible. Immediately fast track hiring three hundred doctors, because obviously there are not all those who say in the system. The notice was only issued on 5 November. Since when has the first lockdown finished? Since when did we know that we should strengthen the National Health System with personnel? I fully respect the intensifiers, they do a very difficult job and we really rely on them. He's obviously happy with an intern when he sees a pneumonologist coming to him, a pathologist, because he's going to train him, all right, he's gonna waste some time, but it's better than nothing. Ask, though, the director of the hospital next door who took that pneumonologist, who took his pathologist. Because that's what happened, you swamps from one hospital to the other. So tell us what the manager of the hospital says, if he's pleased he's broken up his clinic! And of course, whoever's in trouble and has money will go to the private sector, which is COVID free. But how many have this possibility today in Greece? The doctors are to have the image of their clinic. Politicians are to plan and coordinate the whole thing. So I say many times: do not use scientists as a shield, because each one is for his own business. We're not all to do the same. And we slowly solve the questions: why, you guys, was there such a long delay? Why have these announcements and recruitments not taken place for so many months? Because they're coming in private! We found a solution to the government. Two thousand euros tax-free monthly, with the possibility of additional on-calls with their office running. More money than the people of the National Health System who give the battle to the front line all this time, to keep us healthy, alive. It's a hybrid, it's an insult to their work, to their devotion all this time. Should we talk about strong motives for doctors' pay? Let's talk. To find solutions now that there are finally funds from the European Union for health systems. And to plan the terminations of subsidiary contracts in good time, not to lose them too, instead of looking for a set of private individuals. And give us, finally, this information about the thousands of recruits you've made in the ERC. And if you don't want to give them to us for good reasons, uh, take some of them and take them to the hospitals to work, even for the eyes of the world! Energize primary health care networks at last. We don't. Special scientists all over the world say it. Our biggest weapon isn't the intensive care units, it's the primary health care. Because the only way to delay someone to the unit is to have an organised and effective primary health care system. But someone must have decided, planned, put them on paper, given the orders, the instructions to be made. And all these months, they just don't! You're right, he says, with the cell phones of primary care. We'll do it. 'We'll do it. They're still gonna do it. They became the same for the eyes of the world, a few. That goes too. So whoever is ill and at home does his own doing what God can to him, until his condition deteriorates and reaches the hospital. Another one at the hospital, another one at the hospital, another one at the hospital, I was flipping the hospital! Because there's no streak earlier. Increase in the number of tests. Continuous sample test. Samples! No, I'm setting up a table and come on, people, whoever's suspicious. Sample - the lily - dot! It's very simple. It's not a difficult Greek word. Development of university workshops and direct purchase of processing machinery to accelerate them. It's a huge pandemic cost. The cost of purchasing machinery for quick processing of molecular tests is lower. We have people in universities and research centres. Take advantage of them. Weekly health tests - since August most had to be checked, now something rapid test went and some are doing - in the hosting centres of migrants and in the nursing homes. Mandatory test for students and teachers whose class comes into quarantine. I lived it personally. No symptom my son had. If I hadn't run a test on him to see that he's positive, my family would be stuck with at least a hundred people, and I'm sure that's what happened next to us on several occasions. It's not mandatory. Wait, it says, fifteen days at your house! But does the kid live in his own house? Of course, they're counting the test and covering the costs of the EEAS. It's a huge cost. There is unbelievable speculation right now in the private sector. While public hospitals are delaying results even for people who urgently need to operate, there is at the moment an area in the private area that is bewildering by the government's tolerance. We've said it a hundred times, we're tired of talking, but we'll repeat it, let's finally change something in this place. Cooperation with regional selfgovernment, because at regional level there must be strong public health services well organised. These must implement the EGE's directives, bring back the information to the EGE and also do the tracking in each region. Not everything can be done centrally by Civil Protection. It can't be. It's beyond them. A second package of proposals on measures to prevent congestedness, because the need remains and will, first of all, remain in the service of schools. Right now, only primarys work. I don't know how it's done - if you're starting to do it, I wish - but since high school and high school don't go, why don't you use the halls to dilute at least the primary children? Let the matter be reduced so that they can cope. As a matter of urgency, teachers should be recruited, because after the end of the quarantine, when both high school and high school open, the problem should be addressed with the thirty children and the twenty-seven in the classroom. Of course, what needs to be done with distances primarily is to always have a reliable plan B, because it has entered into our lives and has to work unnecessarily, beyond all the other things that we have repeatedly said about transparency in relation to the conventions and the information that has to be found in the political parties for all of this. Public transport. At last, you speed up the hiring of drivers and technicians. They're too late. Buy spare parts to quickly fix the buses and trolleys that are in the trains and can't get out because they don't have spare parts. The easiest and fastest you can do is to have coordination with the CEDEFOP, so that, because each municipality has municipal transport, it can coordinate municipal transport with buses. It's not a solution to the Kappa Tau. Do you know that the buses you brought don't have windows? So who chose at a pandemic time, the main thing being sanitary conditions, to put on the bus lines that have no windows to get in clean air, oxygen? Does it make any sense? A great deal of attention to the newly recruited ESS. It's begun and completed in the next few days. The Department of Defense must bend over and with care for all these new children safely. You understand what will happen and what dispersion will occur if some of them have already been infected with the virus. Ladies and gentlemen, our aim is to have fewer victims and fewer inequalities than the effects of restrictive measures. Because the economic chain turns one's quarantine into 'luke' and unemployment for the other. That's the reality. And we need to see her in the face. So will everyone pay for this crisis, Prime Minister, which I hope you can hear from your office? It's obvious not. Who's going to get more burdens than that? The weaker ones will be charged mainly. The few and the powerful who currently have liquidity in their hands, the opposite. They'll expand their power. We, therefore, in the Change Movement of a goal that we are ruthlessly serving, not to allow this crisis to create ruins in the economy and deadlocks in society. This is also the stirring creative force of our proposals, to stand by man and his needs, and above all to the side of the economically weaker, non-preferential ones. We must not let today's insecurity and anguish be succeeded by frustration and injustice after the end of this quarantine, because then the risk of populism and blind conflicts, division and dead ends is at stake. Our concern is to leave all this behind in the past. Only the Greeks united can we move this country forward! [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Unfortunately, this time government measures in the economy and in the support of workers are not only inadequate, they are behind what was announced in the first lockdown. I shall therefore present today our main proposals that we shall continue to make and claim until they are implemented. Firstly, we call for an increase in the advance payment schedule. Perhaps he needs to touch the EUR 4 billion on the basis of a reduction in turnover. Because you are talking about a repayable advance, but you are limited to the amount that you had already announced, namely 1.7 billion. And now you've added the self-employed. What will each interested person finally get affected today? He's gonna get some scabs, but are we gonna say we gave something? Secondly, companies affected by the State's granting of a work subsidy with 100% of the insurance contributions. Thirdly, suspension for six months of the obligations of firms affected by taxation, insurance funds and banks. The suspension announced by the government only applies in November, as if suddenly in December, we will press a button and everything in this country will function properly, and companies will be able to cope with and pay their obligations as if they were operating normally all over the previous period. But is that ever possible? We recommend a 40% subsidy from the state for a professional accommodation for six months. Fourthly, the suspension of the application of bankruptcy law and first home auctions. It is in full application both your law and the auctions, of course under the pressure of banks and funds that you do not want to displease. This, however, is a disaster for some of our fellow citizens. Fifthly, we propose payment to workers who are suspended from work of 100% of their wages, with a limit, of course, of EUR 1,000. You announced that you are making an allowance of EUR 534, 800. But the truth is that it actually becomes 640 euros. We recommend ensuring that the Christmas gift is paid to all with State subsidies on the basis of real wages. Because you go and calculate it on the basis of EUR 534. And I would like to stress once again that seasonal workers in tourism and foodism see their license and Christmas gift being effectively abolished, since there is no provision, at least until this time when we are talking about it, for the State to grant it. There is nothing in the relevant ministerial decisions. Sixth, to strengthen all unemployed persons registered in the OAU with an unemployment benefit up to at least 30-4-2021. Seventh, suspension of deposit of the law on working hours and unpaid work, immediate promotion of the protection of teleworking, legislation on the protection of teleworking. Eighth, the integration of farmers, farmers and fishermen affected by the return of an advance and, of course, the suspension of their obligations, the support of farmers for the purchase of feed in winter and the immediate repayment of aid and compensation due to the agricultural world. We are also repeating our original proposal to buy from the state and place on vulnerable groups the quantities of fruit and vegetables that will not be placed on the market. Tenth, creation of a cultural aid fund. It may begin its funding from the 87m euros provided to the municipalities for culture in the summer, but this has been cancelled and this money has been left to the municipalities. Get into a fund and go to the people of culture. And, of course, finally join all the staff of the National Health System and the social care units in heavy and unhealthy. Enough in words, now is the time for actions and you have available resources, gentlemen of the government. In his recent report, the Prime Minister himself said he had 37 billion to spend, which, of course, come from the overtaxation imposed by SYRIZA in the middle-class and over-borrowing of the country over the last few months. So these 37 billion, which the Prime Minister spoke about, are money that should be returned to the Greek people. And if not now, when? Ladies and gentlemen, the easiest way for a government that does not want to see its mistakes, to face the problems, at least those for which it has the same responsibility, and to get away from the virtual reality of communication, is to try to eliminate the positions of counter-population and despise the criticism made in it, especially when this criticism is not with stones and easy slogans, but with documentation, as is done by us, the Change Movement, the fact that Greece has been raised higher than anyone else in modern history. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] You, of course, gentlemen of the New Democracy, as Opposition in 2009, were pushing the country into the cliff with your anti-monotic populism with SYRIZA. So you are not the best to give lessons of opposition correctness to tactics. But what you have to understand right now is that the issue is not the course of your government. This will also be judged and you will be assessed when the time comes. What is at stake today is the life and health of the Greek citizens and, of course, the present and the future of the workers, the businesses of the country and the economy. As far as we are concerned, we will continue to fight this battle to make progress and hope in this place, away from reasonable polarization and division, but with documentation, determination and dynamism. The change that we represent and pursue does not bring fear and insecurity. But it brings out from injustice, from inequality, and it also brings a fierce blow to authoritarianism. In particular, therefore, at these difficult times that the country is going through, it is for us as a one-way, it is a matter of patriotism, responsibility and honour that the responsible, documented and programme opposition is responsible, and so we will continue in and out of Parliament, in favour of the interests of the Greek people alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u66	I wanted to take advantage of this little interruption to tell you: Because there is a reasonable interest in the fifty-seat IC positions, which we unanimously financed at the Salvation Hospital, I want you to know that every day we are monitoring their operation. Fifteen patients are currently hospitalized. We've been discharged, we've also had losses, because they've been working for a long time. With fifteen patients, the first two chambers are currently being used. However, all chambers, all four, which do not need to be imported at the moment, are now available. Don't confuse how many people are treated with how many places are available. Fifteen are currently hospitalized, because there is potential to be hospitalized elsewhere, possibly in other gaps. But if, at the moment in theory, all fifty were to be cured, all fifty would be cured. There has been an acceleration from the hospital in making use of these fifty places and at the moment fifty in the system are registered and available. Do not confuse the number of people in hospitals with the number of places available at any time. And I repeat it was our unanimous decision and a significant offer of the House to the National Health System. Excuse me, Mr. Kutsuba, for the delay I caused you. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. We all understand that we are really in front of extraordinary, critical moments, with the risk that the spread of pandemic will take even more uncontrolled proportions. The moments are critical because the public health system lies a step before the total collapse. They are critical because thousands of workers are on the limit of survival, thousands of professionals just before the disaster. Critical because we are no longer standing in the thousands of cases every day, but unfortunately in the dozens dead every day. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] We warned you two months ago about this Step, when we were again discussing the pandemic, when the incidents were still three-digit. We told you and we'll say it again: Emergency conditions also require emergency measures, measures that your Government should have taken since the first moment of the pandemic. You could, but you did not, not as incompetent as SYRIZA tells you mainly or other parties, but from a clear, conscious choice. Our criticism is not about the health protocols and the scientific knowledge of the experts on the necessary health measures, but about your own political options. You were able to shield the Public Health System with massive staff recruitment, as the doctors, nurses, all the sanitaries, who know better than you and firsthand the resistance of public hospitals, the inadequacy of primary health care. Instead, you painted the patches and recycling of staff - particularly permanent staff - which in many cases is falling. You were able to take protection measures at the workplaces on the basis of the specific proposals of the workers and their associations, which warned that workplaces will develop into massive over-transmission centres, as was the case with the canning industry in Giannitsa, the livestock plant in Yannina - I do not say them in detail - in other parts of the country. You do not do so because you consider it to be cost and the cost of protection is, of course, threatening, as you say, capitalist profitability. You were able - and you had all the time to do it - to proceed with the necessary recruitment of teachers, to find the rooms required, too, to reduce students by class. Instead, within the law pandemic you increased as a ceiling of twenty-seven students per class. You were able to take steps to avoid crowding in public transport, as were even scientists recommending to you, knowing what tragic consequences the daily crowding of thousands of workers, thousands of people in public transport, can have. On this, of course, you yourself, Prime Minister, responded cynically: 'Hey, what can we do'? - you said - 'Municipal transport is a means of public transport'. In other words, the world has no choice but to compromise with the fact that it will be moved stacked like the sardine and shaking not to get stuck with a coronary in the buses. Instead of taking these measures nine months now, you are insisting that you go with a flag solely on individual responsibility, as if for the party that the coronary does in the nursing homes it is the 'living' old people who disappear and not the lack of measures and the day-to-day control of the implementation of these measures. As if the massive cases in the packing facilities, in the canning industry in northern Greece, were made by supposedly negative workers of the mask and not by the lack of any elementary measure, with the responsibility of the government and, of course, of various businessmen. Nine months now you are swinging the finger on the people and youth, taking advantage of some irresponsible'sprayed', as the people say - because unfortunately there are such ones - to hide your own criminal responsibilities. Who is responsible for the fact that the hospitals, the clinics, reach their limits, for the fact that the ICUs are slowing down, the surgery is delaying? Who will ultimately be responsible when doctors find themselves in the difficult position to choose who will enter the intensive and who will not? Invoking individual responsibility not only can not take you far away, but has an even more insidious goal, to accept workers, people as data the limits of resistance of the public health system, their infrastructures and their staff and ultimately, to believe that your government, your state, does everything it can and therefore, what will determine things is mainly or only its own individual behaviour. We hear you justify the new restrictive measures by not having pressure on the health system, which could not - you say - manage this system. You have again and again called upon the limits of the health system that you have, however, created. For the years that have passed by the governments of the New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA, have closed over ten thousand beds in public hospitals and today you are all being sensitive to the public system. Break all hypocrisy records! Who shut down the hospitals during the memorial period? Wasn't New Democracy? Wasn't it PASOK? You're not the ones who said they'd have to go to hospitals, because they're counterproductive, cost-effective, so waste for the state budget? Aren't you the ones who said they had to be removed from departments, clinics, why are they in nearby prefectures and patients, as you said, can be served by fewer hospitals and clinics? In fact, these hospitals were also the infectious hospitals. What were you telling us then? That these hospitals have no reason to exist because the pandemic age has passed. However, pluralist policy can only make a proper prediction in the light of popular interests. Even if we accept that you could not, as you say, anticipate, even as a possibility, since pandemics do not often appear, the infectious diseases exist anyway and require special medical conditions. And yet, you sealed these hospitals that could be in the front of the coronary battle. And because SYRIZA has become very forgotten now that he is in the opposition, to remind him of this: Really, who kept the hospitals closed and even closed more, like the Thorakos Hospital in Patras? Wasn't SYRIZA? Who brought on the edge of the cliff primary health care with the merging of the units? You were all company, weren't you? Who flagged the public-private partnership to health? Weren't all of you again? Now like the harmonious coexistence of public and private sectors! While surgery in the private sector is normally done, for whoever can afford it, and has money, it is cut by 80% in the public sector, while uninsured people who cannot afford to care for the public system in the private sector are unwanted and thus lives are lost. Even the new amendment that you said, which we have learned from the press, that you will be tabling - and I say that on the basis of the articles - does not change the substance at all. And that again you have had to do or will do, if the publications are valid, after the revelation made by the KKE newspaper yesterday, "RIZOPASTIS". So enough about lies and hypocrisy. You're all co-responsible for today's mess. For everyone above the needs of workers, the people, you put the demands of big capital. Didn't you do that at the beginning of the summer, when the cases were almost zero? Above the need to protect the health of the people, your government has put the demands of the major groups of tourism, shipowners, shipping and air transport. And leave what you know, that you don't want to put human lives at risk. It's a disgrace and you say that, because obviously no one wants that. Neither do you, of course! However, the undeniable fact we are discussing today is that with the opening up of tourism, as it has been, you have finally put many human lives at risk. And it's really outrageous for the government to try to make convenient and selective comparisons with other countries, to get away from the difficult situation. What are you hiding apart from everyone else? That things would have been much worse in Greece too, if not all these years of hardship, often quiet struggles for public health, which even prevented the worse ones other countries that had no such struggles, but prevailed cemetery silence in the movement, which all of you in Greece fought and slandered, despite the applause lately in spring, to the heroic sanitation, which, of course, did a few months ago. On the other hand, we have the other equally outrageous SYRIZA, who is now trying to separate itself from the government, from the policy he himself has pursued, is trying to make the other governments, such as Italy, Spain and France, who have equally condemned their peoples with the hundreds of victims, with the cynical dilemmas 'who will live, who die', with the backs that all governments have made in the various business interests of either industry or tourism. A few days ago, in Spain, which runs the PASOK there with SYRIZA there, there, there was a great strike for the sanitary people facing the same problems as these ones, even to the point that the government was commissioning doctors to carry out tasks completely unrelated to their specialty! In other words, back to the Middle Ages. This is yours, the capitalist world, dear Alexis, who is gone now, since you have addressed me about capitalism and you as "Dear Dimitris". And this capitalism presents to us as beautiful and angelically false and, of course, presents only his hideous face today. In the Middle Ages, those who saw the pandemic as a golden opportunity to pass through new reactive measures, to literally pass the anti-grassroots reversals of the century, aiming to pay the economic capitalist crisis again. I am referring first of all to this abortion, to the bill on the work you made public. And we say 'extension', because it aims to turn the whole country into a large special economic area of full immunity of capital, a ban on trade union freedoms, a ban on all voices struggling for working people's rights and freedoms. Is it true, or is it not overthrowing of the century, the legislation for the first time in our country of 10 years, a hundred and thirty-four years after the Chicago strike, and just a hundred years after the first legislation of the eighth in Greece? In fact, you tell us that workers as modern slaves will be forced to work ten hours, with unpaid overtime, for almost six months, only conditional on employers giving them a few days' leave at the same time. Is it or is it not a overthrow of the century the ban on strike in the public, in the OTAs, in the legal persons of public law and in most of the concentrated factories, forty-four years after the 'black' law of the then-known Minister of the New Democracy, Laskaris, who remained on paper and in history, after he himself and the government at that time, why did he think that by a law he would abolish the class struggle? That's what he said back then. Is it or is it not overturning what your trade union rights bill provides for, which you are actually inaugurating, a hunt against unions, creating an open 'false' mechanism for those workers who choose to organise in them? What do you want to do? You want to create a trade unions file, which will, of course, be at the disposal of the Ministry, but above all of the great-workers. What your bill also provides for further reduction of average wages, extension of flexibility, and upgrading of the HMD, i.e. the majority of the government and employers, is the culmination of the overturns you are planning. All these crimes at the expense of workers, of course, along with teleworking - which you will also put into this bill, as we learn - cannot be legalised in the working people's consciences, no matter what your members say, no matter what the Minister of Labour says. The reactionary changes to the trade union law after forty years and improvement are neither modernising the trade union movement, as you say, because the new obstacles, which are a continuation of those that have put before governments - and the government of SYRIZA - do not guarantee, but are abolishing the right to strike. It is at least challenging for your Minister to say that with the new law, the trade union movement is becoming more attractive to workers. And don't tell us that the pain has taken you because the workers don't trade massively. For terror in the places of work, have you ever heard of it at all? For the trade union workers who lost their job because of their action? In fact, it is the hatred of your Minister for the trade union movement - for the class labour movement in particular, to say things with their name - that drags them into court for their racing activities. You're deeply laughed if you think you'll catch the workers' sleep. Get that abortion back. Nothing else can be tolerated. Such abortions do not freeze, as SYRIZA urges you, only withdraws, otherwise they are actually abolished, as are many, if you do not want to become, gentlemen of the New Democracy, again a political joke as your various predecessors, who believed that they can put on the plaster the greatest conquests of the working class. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not in March. We're in November with dozens of dead people every day. You're the ones who say we're at war. So now, even now, take all the measures needed to get out of this war with the fewest possible losses. And because it is a loss to human lives, these measures are crucial to take them now without further delay. Go ahead and order the private health and welfare sector to ensure the necessary ICUs, mass free tests, public control in critical areas, such as nursing homes. And when we say "writing", we mean requisition. Do you want to talk to you again? Syriza and KINAL will pay for it again by the people. Response means that the state is taking the private health and welfare structures under its control today - first and foremost, hospitals - undergo their operation, pays their staff. Let's stay, without profits, the clinicians for a few months. The world isn't lost! This is where there are workers who are staying without income and without any support. We will not cry for those who, as we speak about it now, have made uneven profits over the past few years, both in the crisis and with the pandemic even more. Now make the necessary recruitments to health, doctors, nurses, ensure the necessary equipment. What are you waiting for? You say that you almost doubled the IF beds, that we are approaching the target for the thousands of doubles, which is the average in the European Union. But do you want to tell you what happens in the European countries that have caught the average? They send patients to other countries, because they can no longer be nursed, while the screening of who will be saved and who will die beforehand. The only criticism that SYRIZA Census makes you are that you inflate numbers, since you also calculate private-sector beds. However, for the IFs he left, which are not enough, not for the pandemic conditions, but for current conditions. At this time when we are all speaking about the existing IF-beds - eight hundred eighty-three you say that it is - in some areas it is 100% covered. And as many as you have managed to add to this space for the needs of the coronary, the large majority are borrowers, either because they serve other diseases or because you have transformed some high-care beds into IF beds, and indeed, by transferring staff from other departments. We have come to measure the remaining MDGs with the fingers, because this is where the sub-financing policy came to us, 'I'm pulling a hole and opening a lot of others'. That's why you decided to suspend scheduled surgery by 80%. How much does a new ITH cost? Is the cost so forbidden? No, of course not. Why don't you go ahead with the creation of new ICUs with the purchase of equipment and recruitment staff so that we can also meet current needs later? You don't, because you don't want to. Because strengthening the public health system is in direct conflict with your perception, with your policy, which is a policy of trade, health privatisation. In the downgraded health system, which you have all shaped, there are no two diseases and anyone who manages not to get stuck with a coronary and gets sick of something else, bad of his head! That's what you tell him. In the private sector, therefore, mass recruitment to meet other needs that exist and do not become the public system of 'one disease'. Now take substantial measures to protect the workplace, with massive tests everywhere to stop the massive spread. Get the Labour Inspectorate to check that these protection measures are implemented. We know, of course, that you have all led this House - the LFS - to inappropriateness, you have denounced it. Recruit it, to serve it. Take measures now in schools, with fifteen children per class, recruit teachers. Your decision to close high schools and high schools is your confession that schools cannot function under the conditions you opened them. It's not for laughter, it's only for crying what's happening today for televising high school students throughout the country. For the last four days, the system has been dragging, teachers can't get into the system, students are being thrown out. And we're not talking about the English company that manages only. Parents, teachers are indignant, and they're right. This situation is further exacerbating the enormous social and cultural inequalities. Students, who are at a very critical age for their formation, lose their turn, lose their structured contact with school knowledge. Take measures now. Support the educational design of the club of teachers at each school, for all appropriate ways of distance learning. Implement the teachers' suggestions. Even for these few weeks, ensure the necessary equipment for this distance teaching. We have told you - we will repeat this - that decongestion of public transport is a very crucial issue. You can hire, you can dictate private buses that are currently inappropriate. We are telling you again: Two thousand tourist buses, we are told by the operators, they rustle, and they can join the central plan, to dismantle the situation a little. We heard the Prime Minister say: 'No one should stay behind. Our first concern is our fellow citizens who are the weakest.” Do you realize the situation of thousands of workers, thousands of professionals, who have been without work, without income, and who have already accumulated many burdens from the previous period? Are you aware of the situation where thousands of workers are in the food, tourism and commercial workers? Are you aware of the situation of the people of culture, the artists, whom you have left out all this time and have now reached the limits of tolerance? But what about the people of sport, coaches, workers and athletes? The exceptional allowance must therefore be for all unemployed without conditions. You may have opened up the appetite of the great businessmen with the Easter gift that is, however, the money of the workers themselves, but it will not pass on to you. Forget any thought of abolishing the Christmas present. Our criticism of the New Democracy Government for the real management of this unprecedented adventure, the positions and proposals we are putting forward in today's debate, are made from the point of view of the rights of workers, the modern needs that can be met and your system deprives them of. You, too - I am addressing SYRIZA in particular, but also in other opposition parties - and you consider that some of this policy, this development path that has brought us here, you who do not even question the words of this rotten system with the hundreds of deaths of the pandemic, can make proposals for ministers of public acceptance, you can find and discuss or want the Councils of Political Chiefs, but you can fight for the small ones, precisely because you agree on the big ones. The positions and proposals of the JRC do not compress on the strengths of the economy, the capitalist economy. They conflict with the growth of the profits of the few, namely a handful that exploits the many, who are the ones who even in these greedy conditions continue to treasure. Because we know, like you, that we are not in 1918, in the years of the deadly Spanish flu, where even doctors were poor and the means were too little. We are in 2020 with the enormous growth of science, technology, which our own country has a large number of scientific and technical workforces. And while every school unit, for example, could have a doctor, even have a school nurse, today not only does he have such a thing, and as a result there are young children at risk - they come to our party, as I imagine in other parties such complaints - but we have come to discuss even if he has an educational, kindergarten, teacher, teacher. The JRC, from this point of view, starts, from the modern needs of our people, which we believe can satisfy a different, necessary new social organization, with the people themselves setting the example, a society with such organisation, that is, production, services of the whole economy, where its development will be determined on the sole basis not of profit, but of real modern people's needs and work, education, health, everywhere. Our proposals for them are both useful and necessary and essential, both for today and for tomorrow. To conclude, I would like to point out this: Mr Mitsotakis, as you have long been targeting all those who are asking for self-evidents, say their opinion - are fighting it racing, claiming it - so are you all these days and with the celebration of the Polytechnic. You have put your ministers, your executives, some of your "pads" in the media, indulging in a retreat against the course of the Polytechnic. Today you took off this, and you yourself. Of course, it shows where this deliberate authoritarianity, propaganda, all this mud falling against a celebration that, if anything, deserves to remember that is why you are in here and have the prime position. Because on 17 November 1974 the first, even urban Parliament, was elected after the seven-year-old dictatorship and with the participation of all parties. There was before 1967, but without the KIC, without the Left, etc. But we are telling you this and, above all, we are addressing our fellow citizens, the Greek people and from this Step: it is not the Polytechnic that threatens public health. It is not events that are taking place with protection measures much better and much more increased than those in a number of areas where the government is responsible. Why are you doing this? You do it on the one hand to incriminate the people, the youth, their claims to the pandemic. That was the spirit of your speech today, and that is why you combined it with your prototype, without being touched by anyone else. You do it because you want to get it over with with the essence of the Polytechnic, its messages and its content. So you can't make fun of anyone, neither in here nor out of this Chamber. The prohibition of the course for the Polytechnic is not the starting point for protecting public health, but the one that has been disturbing your Government and every government: the genuine anti-imperialist content of the course in the Embassy of the United States of America, your strategic ally. Today this message is more timely than ever. You went out, for example, and all of you celebrated the Baiden election and before you were a paramedic, the State Department's exhibitions completely covered the aggression of Erdogan's Turkish government. As for the threats and famine, show them elsewhere and not in here or to the Greek people and the Greek youth. Show them to the "TUI" - the tour operators. Show them to the shipowners, big-time owners. Show them to private individuals who have nursing homes. You should show them to everyone, that is, those who are primarily responsible for the current situation in our country and our people, and of course they want the health protocols and their own measures. As for the bans, you should address them to the parties which are disciplined by unjustified, undemocratic and authoritarian bans, for no reason, even insulting the heroic struggle of the people who gave their lives, who have been beaten, tortured, exiled or lived in those days of the Polytechnic School, there, this fight. The People's Movement, the organised People's Movement, the JRC has demonstrated that they have and fight can respect all necessary health measures and all the encouragements and decisions of the health university community. In fact, much better than you and your party, we are telling you again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u68	Please prepare the Step sanitary. I should like to call on the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos. Mr. Velopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to begin by expressing a grief. I do not know how many of the parties' leaders have visited other parliaments. I was lucky, Prime Minister, to visit three parliaments in other countries. All three political leaders, by political courtesy, sat seven to eight hours to listen to their political opponents. It is only in Greece that the Prime Minister is speaking, that we are here, and then, slowly, Parliament is being dismantled. I don't get it. Is this the third time I've been doing it as an observation? It's an appeal. I'm sitting here listening to everyone. And it's kind of you to listen to your opponents. I cannot understand that and I cannot agree. I wonder, in other words, how Mr Koutsoubas speaks and what his colleagues, Mrs Gennimata, Mr Tsipras, are going away slowly. So what am I supposed to talk about now? What political logic could I discuss here? Everyone will speak and say theirs, they will address their political audience and the story is over. Okay. When we have a pandemic, which is a serious issue, because it is not a simple matter for pandemic and we are all talking about it, and we say it is a serious matter, at least the criticism we make of the Prime Minister and the government to have specific arguments to help him. Everyone's coming here, says theirs, and they're leaving. I have another view, I had another view and I remain in the other view on politics. It is not only political courtesy to listen to your opponent, but it is also an obligation for the voters of this party to respect them. It's disrespectful to both parliament and voters. Now if people disagree in here, I have another opinion and I think we should listen to each other. It is not just the House for the tenth or fifteenth news bulletin that will "play" a line of Prime Minister and a line of Mr. Tsipras. Well, you forget it, five seconds, two seconds for us and one for Mr. Varoufakis. That is not Parliament. I think so. Parliament is another thing. We come, we all stand together, we talk, we shout, we disagree, we agree, but we must at least be kind to listen to each other. That's how I start, and I'm really sad. I want to wish everyone who's in hospitals right now and they're fighting for their lives to end this story. We need to thank the doctors and the nursing staff. It is our duty, because they really work nights so that others can be well in their health and at some point say all political leaders - I imagine they will say so - the welcome to Mr Ceci. The man's here. Do not forget that we are a country that faces huge problems. Egypt is a strong, but also allied country. We could say a welcome to him all together as a Parliament because Greece needs such alliances. At the moment when Turkey's fascist attitude is imposed on other countries, we need alliances. I would also like to pay tribute to the Greek Government for its efforts. SYRIZA began, not to forget, and in earlier years New Democracy and EASTMED, to tell you everything. This policy is a good policy, namely the cultivation of alliances with other countries. And we have to talk about everything. We must not leave Israel, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, France. And thankfully he has listened to us, Prime Minister, Mr. Dendias, and has contacted India lately. That's good because we need more regional allies. Now let's go to why the citizens don't trust us. You know, today once again by listening carefully to all the political leaders, I confirmed what I always feared, that there is a sterile party perception for all of us. I didn't hear any suggestions. The impulse, without having the economic background of our opinion, is not an argument. Let me say, Prime Minister: "Give now $50 billion. Do you have them? Give it to me. Share them to everyone." That's not a proposal. This proposal of indulgence from 1974 until today has led us here, at point zero, and we continue with the same tactics to mow the ears of voters. I was expecting the political parties, and I say this with full respect to everyone, to tell the Prime Minister - I will do so in my dentistry - 'Mr. Prime Minister, you will take this measure, it costs so much, from there you will find the money.' We only say: 'Take it from the shipowner'. And I say it, Prime Minister: 'Take it from the rich'. I'm not a poor man. I am economically indifferent, but it has hit me - because I have a small and medium-sized or many small and medium-sized enterprises - this story of the coronary and the crisis. But where are you going to get it from? How long can you get from the businessman? Since companies in Greece, with the exception of minimum exceptions, are overtaxed. At least, those involved in the economy, Mr. Comrade, know that. How long can you suck his businessman's blood and something else? Instead of all thinking together and saying to the Prime Minister: Here, our proposals for the country to produce wealth in order to be able to share, make it difficult today for any government, SYRIZA, New Democracy, PASOK, the JRC, us, Mer25, to have a proposal based on a stock that exists. There's no stock. Since 2012 when I listen to the House is exactly the same procedure. Although they are from here in the Opposition, and when they come to the government - we saw SYRIZA - they voted for memoranda. I say this sincerely because we are actually coming to that notorious saying, Prime Minister, Churchill. What did Churchill say? He said: "Policy is the ability to present today what will happen tomorrow and explain tomorrow why it was not yesterday or today." We are saying things every day when we are from here, in the opposition, but when we are there, in the government, not only can we do what we say, but we do exactly the opposite. So how can the citizen of Greece trust political leaders who, at the time of the pandemic, who are all agreed that we need a union, a unity, common proposals, we come here and do not make proposals, concrete proposals, costed by accountants? You tell me. All right, I will satisfy my constituents, PASOK his own, New Democracy's own, we will again have the Prime Minister together with the ministers to go along with solutions or non-solutions, mistakes or not mistakes. It's not like that! Prime Minister, you have asked us to tell you whether or not we want a lockdown. For me, this is a fake felony, Prime Minister. Let me tell you what reminded me. He is a general, who leads the country to Vaterlos, starts the battle and then says: "Do you want to fight?" But she's lost from time to time, Prime Minister, with the mistakes or uncertainties that have been made in the process. You can't ask us, from SYRIZA, from Mera25, for us to tell you today if we want to or if we don't want Lockdown, when on the way to Lockdown, which is the last solution of a government, you never heard. And don't say you let us know. No, information means we are gathering together, talking and saying the problems from there on, everyone is taking responsibility. And then you go out and say, "Velopoulos, the Gennamata, Tsipras, Koutsoubas, they offered me nothing, after I saw them, they didn't bring me anything." This does not mean that you cannot rule or that we remove you from power, saying let's go and beat some people. No, but on major issues at some point we should all meet together, we can't. After you yourself said about war, and even now you say 'invisible enemy','pandemic'. In the war, Prime Minister, you join forces, you unite all the forces. So you didn't call anyone. That clever tactic - rather they advised you to do it, as a man of reform I did not expect you to do that, is that an old-party perception - to say: 'Are you in favour of Lockdown or not?' That doesn't make sense, that's not a point. That's my opinion. When you achieved it in March, I had come out with my announcement on television and said: "Bravo, drink, you achieved a lot", March, April, May. You did it. That's the truth. The New Democracy did it the first time, because he never heard of any of us again, he never listened to us. You did it. Now how do we say "go" about something that really seems to have failed? Your Minister, Mr. Kikilis, speaks, that you increased the ICUs. I, too, read today, Prime Minister, that you are preparing to make the "Belgium" space for meth. It's written in the papers. So we are not ready, as we should have been from March to today, eight, nine months to counter the second wave. I'm afraid, Prime Minister, we'll have a third wave. I'm so afraid of that. Prime Minister, I fear that we will have a third lockdown and a third wave and it will be harder, because February, if you ask the experts, who I understand, will tell you that the flu is incubating, the viruses are much more severe than in November or October. So I would like to say - and we also have complaints from workers in hospitals today - that there must be a continuity in the political system of speeches and projects, but when we say something here, we must mean it. In other words, it is hypocritical that SYRIZA today - and I say it directly - comes here and moves the finger to the Greek Government - I will not be an advocate of the Prime Minister or of the New Democracy, because we are opponents anyway, but I will tell them the truth - by telling them that they did not do the same, they did not do the other thing. And now they have the solution to solve them now. Five years, SYRIZA has done nothing about all this, both for health and the ESS, except for some fireworks. And today we say that the ESS has collapsed, that all governments are responsible for this, and we move the finger to a government, whatever government. On the other hand, when we move the finger to a Prime Minister, a party leader, we have our own proposals. In other words, three parties, New Democracy, KINAL and SYRIZA have been bankrupt since 1974, Prime Minister, to date in the country and today the rest of the people who have been bankrupt - that is, they have not been able to cure the 'conspiracy' which our economy has had - tell us that there are many diseases and everything - not to say a word - pandemic have a solution. That's not true. In other words, they died of the economy, of the "sympathy", they went bankrupt and now they have solutions for everything. Now they have solutions for everything because it's in the Opposition. It's an easy job in Opposition, you're hijacking. I'm saying it's what I can do. But I will also put specific proposals and problems in my dentistry, without compulsion. Prime Minister, 'it is not tourism' is your motto. I'll take it. SYRIZA also comes out and says "it's not the gathering at the court." I accept, Prime Minister, that you are right on 17 November. To accept it, you're right. I'm with you not to make any progress, not to do that. How will we become convincing as a political system when we forbid the Greek who is religiously inclined to go to church, who wants to go to light a candle and does not go because the political system says, all of us, that we have a lockdown, that the law is that, while the political system on November 17 wants to illegalise? You tell me, Prime Minister. How am I going to convince the citizen that we are right as a political system, that the situation is dangerous, that there is a lockdown? And yet how can the government convince me, Prime Minister, that what it says is convincing when she sent a representative outside the court? I see refluxes, when we, the JRC and the Left didn't go on October 28th to the Unknown Soldier to testify a wreath, which is the day of the National Anniversary. Mr Koutsoubas said that you were the Prime Minister on November 17th that was the Cultivation, we had democracy, Parliament, etc. Good, yeah, but on October 28 our grandparents fought so that fascism would not come to Greece. Can't I compare this here? So why should the political parties be illegal on 17 November? And here I am going to demand - and I say this with pain of soul - that the law be implemented. They cannot arrest the Greeks who circulate on the beaches themselves or the churches, indulge in and award fines, have law and some of them in here say "we will be illegal". It's a mistake, a wrong message to the citizens. Then there will be what we say many times, lawlessness. If some want to impose lawlessness, it is their issue, but fairness and order must exist for all of us. Some are not less equal than citizens. Let's decide what we want here. Prime Minister, a few minutes ago SETE came out of a leak that "TUI" does not want to pay and delay payments by the end of May. The hotel owners are in despair. We have a friend of hotel here in Mera25, who knows, I imagine, good things. The hotel owners are in despair. In two thousand hotels, the 'TUI' owes billions and will not pay them. So you must now, Prime Minister, give a mandate for the co-legislative ministers to find a solution to this issue, a solution. I do not say to you 'compensate them'. It would be very easy to say like SYRIZA or KINAL "give money". Find a way to press the 'TUI' at least to pay what it owes, not money against. I'll submit the report to the Minutes. It's from a foreign newspaper. I'm about to testify everything together. I would once again like to say and counteract the Prime Minister and the New Democracy. Prime Minister, it doesn't matter if you fought, as you say. It doesn't matter if you're fighting now. I'll tell you raw and let it sound extreme. It matters that you've lost. In the second Lockdown you have lost, you have lost your holidays and the country is unfortunately losing. You didn't just lose because any opposition and pandemic shotgun drives the economy to the tartars. We'll have a huge, scary economic problem. I tell you, as a businessman who deals with the economy every day. You have chosen, Prime Minister, in your prototype - I wish your dentext to correct it - to oppose opposition to opposition. I was expecting you to tell me why we got here. If it's the young people's fault, it's the other one's fault, and you can't impose legality, then we have an issue of incompetence, government power and incompetence. It's not justified any differently. Because very simply from the first lockdown, concrete measures should already have been taken. Also, by addressing the Members of the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, I would be very uncomfortable, frankly, when Mr Tsipras asked you "as an opposition what you were doing" and you were calling under "all together we voted on the third memorandum" and applauded. Is it possible to applaud and rejoice and rejoice that you voted for a third memorandum? Because from the result it failed. We have a quarter, we'll have a fifth, we'll have a sixth. As an opposition you said to Mr Tsipras that we "we voted together on the memorandum". And then he makes you relentless, Prime Minister, and he tells you about the scorpion. I would be very uncomfortable when Mr. Tsipras tells me, my colleague, that you were saying that you were the traitors who voted for the scout and those who named Macedonia and now you are not speaking. I'd feel really uncomfortable, honestly. I don't know how you guys felt. It's your thing. Now with regard to Mr Tsipras' proposal for the Ministry of Health, I do not understand. Is there a democracy? Is there a government? I did not understand Mr. Tsipras' proposal. 'Minister' - says - 'common acceptance'. Then we should also have a Prime Minister, a Minister for Foreign Affairs, a Minister for Public Health and a Minister for Education. Then there is no government. That government was not elected. Another logic has been chosen. On the other hand, I am saying this directly in no country in the world there is no such thing. Are we going to create it? If you want our proposal, it's another. As far as health and pandemic is concerned, the government, as is the case in many countries - in Sweden, in other countries - where there is no government, the mandate for scientists to take action, so that the Prime Minister is not today forced to apologise. At the moment, the Prime Minister is apologising and he tells us "we did what the scientists told us". Scientists seem curious that politicians were fearful in their choices, "Others we told them and others did or did half." That is why I say that if we want serious proposals to put forward, to put forward serious proposals, not fireworks, we are here, bamboo, bamboo, we are leaving. Oh, no. It's wrong. On the other hand, for televised education, I told Mrs Kerameo - I will speak on empty benches, it is okay that Mr Contozamanis is here, he will listen to me now - you have imposed the telepedia. I'll call her that. I agree, it's a good choice. Since we can't have lessons, we can have computers. In Portugal, however, once the government has decided, ladies and gentlemen, it has sent the children a hundred thousand laptops. If a family has two kids and they have a class and they both have a class, how are they gonna get on the same computer to do a class at the same time? I'm asking you. That is why I am telling you that it is not a question of taking action so as to talk about it, but of seeing the problem of giving the right solution. That's not how it works. So, the Portuguese are smarter than us, or do they have a better Prime Minister, smarter? Oh, no. Just sometimes when it's all up to the Prime Minister, there's a matter. Where are the ministers? Some ministers say to him 'Mr. Prime Minister, we have a problem'. We're talking about the telepathy, yeah, getting off, but they don't have computers for some kids. They're poor. The other takes five hundred euros and has two children. How will he survive? How's he gonna get a computer? Find a way to subscribe this. That is necessary, because the child, the family, with a government decision, the state, if you like, is obliged to take a class at home with a computer and has no computer. And don't listen to the laughter I hear from some ministers, "but they also learn from the cell phone if they want to." Christ and God bless you! Take a light too, so we can take a class like a secret school. I mean, I mean, all this shows that the ball's gone. The ball's really gone, and I'm sad about it. I'm asking. Let someone commit in here whether we have or won't have a third lockdown. We'll have a third lockdown, too. Scientists say so now. Mrs. Linou said so. He said we're going all the time for third lockdown. He'll be open for a while, and he'll be closed again. Good. What's the government doing? Did the Prime Minister tell us today that we're ready for the third lockdown to happen after the scientists say so? Oh, no. He came here and "sented the voices" and made opposition to the opposition. That's wrong, too. I was expecting a Prime Minister - he is not here - to tell us 'principals, the government suffered a defeat, but in battle and war, in the third lockdown which, unfortunately, can come, we are ready.' He didn't say that, though. He didn't say. So we've got a big gap. In other words, what we did not do in the first lockdown, we did not do it in the second and I fear that we will be led to a third lockdown with the same inadvertentness and ignorance of the first and second lockdowns. Why did we get here? Now I'm going to tell you, because the Greek Solution has a team of scientists who work with top universities and we're told by the people themselves, not by your own people who are on the channels, who made them partners of SKAI, your own channel. All SKAI partners, scientists, inside or out of introductorys, come to SKAI and say theirs, exactly the same. What didn't you do? Firstly, a valuable time has been lost since March - April. The whole management record was wrong, friends and friends. I'm telling you this so you know it. You thought the problem was solved without a test. Without making real scientific documentation, without having an epidemiological imprint on what's going on, you made decisions for the summer. That was your mistake. In the summer you opened the country in tourism. Wrong! And I'll tell you why it was wrong. Wait a minute. You did it because you used a wrong software. Nobody knows it here through the opposition parties. The software you used was wrong. The Minister's not here to tell us. It was a mistake. And it was wrong, because the algorithm preferred to investigate countries that did not carry out tests, and there the number of cases was reduced, thus rejoicing. But with fictional evidence. Not that it's your fault. Oh, no! The software you used gave you the results wrong, none of you checked and reached this point. That's the truth. Look a little bit longer. Algorithm's the problem. Those aren't my words. Mr Ioannides, Professor of Stanford, said so. He said it yesterday at "MEGA" and I heard him with my ears. The algorithm New Democracy used was wrong. You tested the squares blindly. Mr. Zervas, the Mayor of Thessaloniki, along with Mr. Chardalia in the square and said, "Come for a test." And all the “sheep” were going to run tests. This is not called a sample check. I'm telling you how we got here so in the third wave we're ready. Is that what it's called? I'll tell you. He said so very well again, a leading scientist. "To find people in the square and test them is not an epidemiological surveillance, it's cooking, it's a Master Chef." And who's going there? He's the one who's afraid he's got a coroner. So I'm increasing cases. Sampling had to be done. Can I tell you differently? Did anyone think in here that in three weeks we would solve the coronary problem? Did you think so? Because the government's announcement was three weeks in Lockdown. Did anyone think in here that in three weeks we could finish with the coronary? Are we all right? You're just moving the problem all the time. You can't give a solution and take time, time, time more. That tactic's wrong. You need to see the problem and the truth, the bitter truth, because it's a pandemic. New Democracy cannot alone. It's for granted. Not for the rest of us to help, but at least for them to make suggestions. It is not easy for a government to deal with pandemic - it is a given one - because pandemic waves last two and a half years, ladies and gentlemen. They don't leave in three weeks and five, six months. These are the basics. I don't know if it's the epidemiologists you have. There are doctors here. Ask them. We don't finish in a week. Actually, what you did - I'll say directly - with Lockdown is wrong. Now the winter begins, now begins the 'party'. Because after the second lockdown you'll open for a while Christmas, I imagine, and then we'll have a third lockdown. Here's the big problem. Substantly with the lockdown transfer the battle. And here's the wrong lockdown. Professor Ioannides said that as the government does, he carries the problem inside the house, transports it into an indoor space, in a house, not out in the air. And that's a mistake, Mr. Ioannides says. And that reminds me of the general, ladies and gentlemen, who, seeing a swarm of locusts coming to the city, is bombing the city. That's what you did with Lockdown. You bombed the economy. So it hurts tooth, it cuts head. That's what you did. You made mistakes, which you will find before a few months, when the problem is overcome and problems will move to the real economy. And there you will have a big problem, because the problem of moving a pandemic into the economy is not easy to fight. Also, because you may not believe me by some of you, I will submit to the Minutes statements of the top doctors - Sorbonne, London, Stanford - who say exactly the opposite of what you have done. And I don't understand your obsession with unimportant scientific dependencies. I never understood it. Trust me. Because it must be a panacea of what Mr. Velopoulos says, I say, or Mr. Tsiodras or Mr. Tsiodras, and you are not looking for the other side, if the other side says something different, at least we can hear it. You put SKAI to swear those who disagreed with the choices of the major scientists. Why? You made the channels target those who disagree. Why? Here you reached the point where you said "sprayed" those who react not to the mask or vaccine, but to the lockdown. Why? Because the one who enters Lockdown - and, you know, it's not just the economy - will actually be driven to depression. And how could we solve the problem? What would we do? First, mass tests. You'll tell me what I heard from the Minister. You'll be right. 'We couldn't order a test in April - May'. But Slovakia ordered from June to have it all now and now did a 70%-80% test of its population within a weekend and identified the problem and isolated it. Couldn't the government do that? He couldn't get ahead of evolution? That's why I'm saying you're lost. Because politics, ladies and gentlemen, does not mean repression. It means prevention and, above all, care, care to deal with the problem at its root. You move it, that's the problem, and you move it into society, economy, everyday life, to all those who really face difficult situations. Also, what else would we do? What Slovakia did, which pre-ordered a test in June, and found 1.1% of the population with possible infection and found the most infectious and took measures. You take measures in total for all. Whether I have a coroner or I don't have a coroner, I'm the one you take me as a criminal, moving coroner. In other words, I either have or do not have a coronary, ladies and gentlemen, I am a potential coronary. That's not what it's called government. You're making mistakes. Slovakia did it, massive diagnostics, and epidemiological surveillance. They need a test to do this. In specific age groups, ladies and gentlemen, it has been done by those in need, in the vulnerable groups, in the advocates, to older people who need greater care, increased care. This is where every bitter man laughs. You know, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that if you ask the Minister how many old homes are and how many are hosted, we don't know how many people are? You know that? We don't know how many in the nursing homes, how many in the state, how many older people, we don't know the exact number. So what if you don't know the number? Because there you need to focus on the nursing home. The bomb or mobile is the nursing home. That's not what we know either. I asked the Minister and he said: 'We don't know exactly'. Uh, now what state is it that doesn't know how many are - two, five or six thousand - nobody knows how many are hosted. So here I say that we should also do the primary care network. Okay, that makes sense to avoid charging large hospitals. The other has a little fever, he runs to the hospital, he sits in the tail where they have a coronary. Am I wrong? Aren't you a doctor, Mr. Colleague, or am I wrong? You have, you don't have a coronary because you're scared, you go and run a test and you wait in line, thousands of people outside the hospital, and he's charged with the hospital. Primary care, there for the tests, for doctors to take the tests, for doctors, for private doctors assembled. And get ready on the third lockdown, I tell you. I tell you that specific things had to be done since March, not now. As a country we're late. The Panhellenic Medical Association, for example, sent directions of primary care on November 5th. On November 5th, send instructions? Wrong. I'm telling you the mistakes. The proposals I'm going to make in dentistry. Example of Singapore. Look, you don't have to find America, you guys found it. So Singapore, Slovakia, they found America. What did they do? Sixty thousand diagnosed cases, with too many tests, twenty-eight deaths, three in nursing homes, and 0.03% mortality. They did it because they started straight to take action, they did not run behind the problem of firearms, as the Prime Minister is running now - he probably has no good ministers - to make the fireman. The politician's not a fireman. The politician is the one who cares not to light a fire. If it lights on your balls, you can't make it. And I'm saying it so people can figure it out. And it comes to the point today that the Prime Minister is to blame for the young, for the Greeks. So we're moving the responsibility of still dispersing the coronary into young people. Instead of saying it's our fault that we didn't do some things we had to do, it's the young people's fault. It's Hatzipetris, in short.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u70	Not all Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u71	Not all of them, young people. Few or many, it's young people's fault. So I did not hear the Prime Minister say it was others' fault. It's not the political leaders, it's not the Member's fault, it's not the Minister's fault, it's always the other one's fault. That's the logic of the Greeks, you know, that people are always to blame for the evils of our fate. It's nobody's fault. It's our fault first and then everyone else. So the New Democracy tells us that it is the citizen's fault for the quarantine. So what does New Democracy want to tell us now? That seven to eight months have taken the best measures, but the citizens are to blame for what is happening. There is an inconsistencies, a contradiction in the logical leap of this argument. We either took measures and saved the place in the second lockdown or the measures we took were not good and we have a coronary dispersion. This is the raw reality. The rest of you can tell your party audience, not us that we have a reasonable specific. For eight months now - I will say it directly, I said it the day before - the only PSU supported by the government - remember that, Mr Lebanese - is 'your fault'! The only RSU that this government has supported is 'your fault', 'you, sir', 'you, sir', 'you, sir, not the government'. Instead of helping the National Health System, we call you "your fault" with the finger, "you're sprayed", "you're not going out, you're going to sit at home". And I wonder: The state must have a pedagogical perception, it must be convincing. And I ask the Left: How persuasive will we be November 18, if all parties are going on the way to the Polytechnic at 17? You tell me. And how persuasive we will be to the believers we call "Don't go to church, don't make a divine reception", but on November 17th we'll go there. How convincing can I be when 28 October didn't go out of the Unknown Soldier with a decision of the President of the House because of a coronary to testify a wreath? But we went. The rest of the parties didn't come. How are we going to convince them, ladies and gentlemen? They won't be persuaded. They'll say we're mocking them, we're working on them. Of course, in order to understand that there is a mess, I do not want to believe that you are doing so deliberately. It's not the man's fault. It's not just the Prime Minister's fault, it's his ministers' fault. There is the CVT 4899/6-11-2020. Marriage in churches is suspended. You know that? Are they suspended, Mr. Comrade? Politicians, however, are normally allowed in town halls. Why? FEC, I'll submit it to the Minutes. In other words, in the church one cannot marry, but he can go to the municipality with nine or ten people along with the mayor to make the marriage. I'm telling you. That's what the FEK says. The FEK says only the priest, the singer and the couple. In the municipality, however, nine and the mayor, ten people. Why? Who wants to marry orthodox and have only the priest toward him? These are mistakes, I'm telling you. I think it's involuntary. I don't want to believe you're xenophobic. I don't want to think you're Greek-phobic. But if you go under Omonia, Mr. Colleague, the Afghan and Pakistani shops are full. The "STAR" showed it, a channel that is friendly to you. He showed it and said, why don't you go shut it down? And now I'm going to believe that on November 17, the Prime Minister will order the Municipalities to arrest the parties' leaders? They'd have been arrested at the courtroom. But I forgot you went to the courtroom too. These are incredible things and you don't get to be believed. That's what I'm telling you. You're making mistakes. I wish you could be believed. People don't believe you. Another mess. I'll tell you now. Saturday morning, Mr. Comrade from Thessaloniki, I'm in my office in Thessaloniki. I want to book a plane ticket to fly Sunday. The airport ‘MAKEDONIA’ is closed. From the previous Lockdown decision, before all Greece closed, the airport was closed. It becomes lockdown across Greece, airports are all operational, but the employee forgot to send an e-mail and to say "children, unblock the “MAKEDONIA” airport". And I'm calling Chardale, and I'm telling him, "Mr., what's going on here? Thessaloniki three days, until Tuesday?’ No one got it. Fortunately, Chardalia and the President of Parliament, Mr Tasoulos reacted and opened the airport. To see what's wrong, I'm telling you. This is the Greece you made. Since 1974, all political parties have made a messy, bureaucratic Greece, without structures, invertebrates. It's a really tragic situation, because I'm in private business and I realize that when the clerk doesn't do something, you have to pull his ear. It can't be done! The clerk who didn't send it, I imagine, won't be punished, will be released. Just stuff. So listen, to close slowly, not to eat much time, as I say many times. Now they say we'll have third lockdown. Let the government come out and tell us: will we have a third lockdown? I'm asking the Prime Minister, nothing else. What am I asking him for? Because as an entrepreneur I need to know how many employees I have from here, to have to fire some people, because I can't stand it anymore. I haven't had a cigarette since March. Ask the hotelier over there to tell you how he'll last now in the winter and summer he's coming to have the same employees. It can't be done. So ask businessmen how they can handle it. Five hundred employees are in my companies. How can I stand it if I don't know if I have a third lockdown? How are my companies going to reoperate? I've been locked up by four stores. It's closed, lockdown. Officials? The PPC I'm going to pay, gentlemen? Since my place is closed. Why didn't you make a arrangement, PPC pay it at least twelve months later, not to say the little more "delete the debt"? We've got the other one closed together. The focus is closed. Why would he pay PPC, guys? Traffic charge. Why should I pay traffic fees when you booked my cars at home four months ago? You tell me. I've got ten cars in my company. Traffic charge. Security. Why? You tell me. That's why I'm telling you you can't rule like this. You're making mistakes. And it's not about a Prime Minister. I'll say it again one more time. When you've got fifty two Ministers, one can't tell me that. The Greek Solution with 10 MPs cannot understand society and the economy and you cannot understand it. Am I wrong, Mr. Colleague, about traffic charges? Why? Make a discount. Since the other guy's not around. He's not allowed out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u72	You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Also, ladies and gentlemen, every day it passes is 170 million damage to the Greek economy, Lockdown, know it. Three months and one now four, put the numbers down. And what did you do? For three and a half billion revenues you have now murdered for thirty days in the Greek economy, which means five billion. Three and a half billion are from tourism. SETE says so. Check it out. Three and a half billion. So when SETE says three and a half billion, for three and a half billion, you opened up tourism without control. If you opened him up with control, with you. With the wrong algorithm, you did the job. I wouldn't have had any trouble. But I repeat, you have done huge damage. When we talk about losing four and a half to five billion a month, where are you gonna get the money? This is the question that the Prime Minister has to ask. To say, "Come here, Mrs. Gennamas. Come here, Mr. Tsipras. Come here, Mr. Velopoulou, Mr. Varoufakis, tell me how do I get the money?" Let's sit down and talk seriously about how Greece will produce wealth. There, yes. We should be serious about talking. But to say, "Minister, he's given money" is easy. Or "Belopoulos, he has given money" or "Mr. Tsipras, he has given money". The thing is where we're going to get the money. Because the thirty-seven billion you say, the sixty billion, the forty billion that you say we will get in seven to eight years from the European Union, we will not get them now, but in part. And you've got half the time, and you've given it to your best friends. Five businessmen took half of the funding. Let's not forget that. Five entrepreneurs have received half of the funding in the past few months. Look it up a little bit longer to understand. I will not say about the money you would pay, the eight hundred that are six hundred, taxed or not taxed. Let the Prime Minister tell us if the eight hundred that's been done are to be taxed. Because you said for a month eight hundred, but because it's only three weeks, it'll take six hundred people. Are they going to tax them already? Here's the question. Tell us these. Because the average worker is interested in it. You give him eight hundred, he's happy. It'll take six hundred in the hand. Are they going to tax them already? Ladies and gentlemen, I shall tell you personally how I feel about it. When I see shops closing, small or large, my soul hurts. Honestly. Not because he's a business partner, no. Because that's where people work. And when a business closes, the family stays without bread and water and no food. Do we understand that? Do we get it? Are we all aware of this? I didn't come here to oppose the Prime Minister or New Democracy, I don't even care. But I am interested in the entrepreneur who has workers working for him who make money that Greece produces, who export. I'm interested in him. I'm more interested in him than anyone else who comes here to make his criticism of Opposition in a bad way. Why? Because that's not politics, it's called micropolitical. Small-party policy. You know they're sinking into depression? There's research on top universities and I'll testify to them in the Minutes. Listen to get shocked. I got her here. Wait a minute, or people will go crazy. University of the world research, children's and adolescent psychiatry research: "Three times the chances of moving to depression from Lockdown." But why? Because man communicates.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u74	Whose investigation is this?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u75	I'll tell you, here's the whole study. And Mr. Grivas said so, well-known Griva, the psychologist - the psychiatrist. I'll tell you why. Because man as a helmet communicates. He's talking, he's smiling. When you get him locked up, you put him in a lockdown, the joy goes away, hope and expectation for a better day tomorrow. You deprive him of tomorrow, so we're going to get depressed. In antidepressive pills, most Greeks will go. My soul hurts what's happening. Since March - April we all had to sit together so that the second lockdown doesn't happen. And the third one will happen, and I'm afraid we'll have it all the time. Let the lesson become a lesson. Unfortunately, it's not possible, and you're happy for the vaccine. I'll tell you this. I have reservations about the vaccine a lot. Asking university professors, Mr President, they told me that a vaccine to be safe takes three to four years to be considered by the scientific community as safe. Hurry troubles me. If you don't believe me, take Professor Ioannides or Professor Stanford, not Ioannides alone, there are others. I can't understand your logic, how easily you believe what you're told. The man arrived here because he doesn't believe what he's told him. If we believed what we were told, we would say that the earth is not coming back even now. I don't understand! The one-sided conception of some things I do not understand. Because science is a dynamic situation. It's changing. It's mutating. He's on his way. In the same sense - and I repeat - the earth is not round. The earth is flat. So, I think I do. That's what they used to say. But I will tell you this: the safety of a vaccine - I shall say it directly - is not questioned by me. But what I doubt - and I shall say in public - is the precursor of Germany. Because if we are talking about Europe, Germany cannot say that out of the 300 million vaccines it will get a hundred million. This is German nationalism. It's a German fascism. That is to say, three hundred million vaccines Europe and the hundred million vaccines Mrs Merkel wants. And that is European solidarity! It's not worth a hundred million vaccines. Why's he taking them? That's what I'm telling you to know you're not doing well. You've confused the world. I'm telling you that. You've confused him. Finally, I would like to say this: I am making an appeal to the Greek Prime Minister, who is not here, and to the other ministers. Oh, the best of all is here. It's Mr. Pechas. Take a phone call, in the channels, please too, to stop showing dead. It's getting depressed in the world. I see 6.50 minutes talking about dead people. I see the relatives of the dead talking. Christ and God bless you! Don't scare people like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u76	Do we hide them like Chipra?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u77	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Comrade, you don't hear what I'm saying. That's all I'm saying. I want you to listen to me, so I can close up here, so I don't mind you too. So I say to them to be very simple: When you bomb a people constantly with horror and fear of death, you lead to a fall of their immune system. A doctor, isn't he my colleague with the glasses? Ask him. Fear and stress, stress, psychological pressure leads to a fall of the immune system. Am I wrong, Mr. Comrade? It's about like this. So I am not saying: 'Get out on the streets.' This terror, however, is the constant fear, the dead, the intubated, the respirator, the dying doctor, all of this causes psychological and mental problems. I say this because if you want ten million Greeks to survive after the coronary that you fight for it as a government, they can survive. Half of them, however, will be half crazy, the others may be half mad, and in the end, they'll die of hunger. Because you're wrong about the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, too. We are completing the protagonists with the President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Varoufakis. Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while the Prime Minister started his speech this morning, I was looking at the website of Kathimerini. And my eye fell on an article on the front page of "Kathimerini", where he referred to an interview by Mr. Dermitzakis, the well-known doctor, Professor from Geneva - if I am not mistaken - who wondered whether Thessaloniki would become the new Italy with the hundreds of them in March. I will also speak as a member of the Thessaloniki Parliament right now. Ladies and gentlemen, is it possible at a time when Thessaloniki and Northern Greece are facing this problem, can the government ask individuals to participate and contribute to the fight against pandemic? I've seen the notices: Two thousand euros, you keep your office, you double the money you give, the rent, for private IFs. Let me ask you something and think about it: If we had a real war conflict right now, would you ask for their contribution from truck drivers? Would you please ask them? Would you give them money to offer their truck for the transport of war materials that they need at the time? Of course not! You would've made a direct order. It is unacceptable that you beg the private sector in Thessaloniki right now, Mr Mitsotakis. We're asking for a requisition right now. Mr Dermitzakis - if you have not heard it, I repeat it - today in Kathemerini is referring to the major possibilities for Thessaloniki to become a new Italy in March - April. Prime Minister, it is not time to disagree about numbers - you rightly said it - but we do not disagree on the substance. The point is, we have an exponential worsening of the pandemic. We're not here right now for chicken fighting, or at least we shouldn't be here for it. However, the order of the private health sector in Thessaloniki in particular today must take place before today's debate is over. It is neither a matter of party disputes nor a matter of different policies. It is something you must do right now and I tell you as a Greek MP. You need to do some basic things, at least symbolically. Prime Minister, you know that. You know that extraordinary overtime has not been paid to our people in the National Health System for a year and a half. Pay it. It's a small amount, though, symbolic. It shows you're doing something for these people right now while you're not talking to them. You talk to everyone else, you have privileged speakers in the private sector, with which you discuss the future of the public sector. Why haven't you spoken to the people of OENGE, with the elected representatives - some are New Democracy - of hospital doctors? Is it possible that you don't talk to them? [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] You spoke of responsibility, Prime Minister. The responsibility goes along with the support we must give to the rest of us. In March - you know that, we have also publicly said not only that we, but also other parties, and I, in our debate - supported you and, indeed, gave you credit for the fact - and I said it in plenary - that unlike other conservative prime ministers, Prime Ministers from conservative parties, Mr Boris Johnson, for example, you moved quickly. You had the support. However, at the same time, we had said to use the two-month, quarter, of the first quarantine of the lockdown restrictive measures to create this necessary public mass test system. We've been talking about it. Our tongue was softened in March, April, May. You didn't. When you talk about responsibility, you have to take responsibility. I have not heard you today say that you have failed to create a public effective system, because mass tests, which were necessary to get out of the first lockdown, will be necessary now. You still don't have it. The only way to get out of quarantine with some normality is to have a mass test system and, indeed, a public one. It's the only way there might be. And I'm not very sure about this. And we read what the experts said. Yesterday the newspaper "New KRITI" made public a letter that was sent to you by important people, who later proved to be your partners. The first was Mr. Dermitzakis, another was Mrs. Layou, Mr. Majorkinis, Mr. Georges, Mr. Thanos, Mr. George Collis, Mr. Konstantinos Stamatopoulos, Mr. Nektarios Tavernarakis. They're all people with whom you finally worked with later. And what did they say? What we said on 10 March in this Chamber, that it needs, that is, - and I will mention it in particular - an aggressive model for a virus test. This is a letter sent to your office and to the Minister of Health's office. This letter was sent on 16 March. It wasn't just us talking about it. You didn't. I submit the letter to the Minutes of the House. [[At this point, the Secretary of Mera25 Mr.Giannis Varoufakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So we supported you in the first quarantine and on June 4th, Prime Minister, you will not remember, look at your records, you will be confirming it - I asked you a timely question, in which I asked you without opposition, phrase or disposal a very specific question: How did the government take advantage of the two-month lockdown in order to organise the mass tests, which are characterised internationally to minimize a second wave during the gradual relaxation of containment measures, and health structures to withstand the second wave? That was the question. And a second question was: What level is the country and the ESS prepared to face up to outbursts due to the coming of tourists? And what's your corresponding design, especially for education, in the autumn? Commission proposal: OJ C 144, 16.5.1996; COM(96) 224; Bull. You decided not to answer it. Then - you are right about that, Prime Minister - SYRIZA was silent, not to mention any and mischief to tourist professionals together. SYRIZA remembered this a little later in August, and then on the 11th of the month - if I'm not mistaken - you cause a debate - but on what issue? - not on the question I asked you on 4 June, but on the management of the recovery fund, not on the subject! That's when I insulted you, Prime Minister, because you did a wormhole off the subject. The Recovery Fund will discuss it. You know we, Mera25, our study, our analysis, according to which it is a macroeconomicly insignificant contribution to the Greek economy. We had even said that it would not be more than 9.5 billion over three to four years clearly. But it wasn't the point. The question was the question, which you have deliberately ignored and served in this cohort. During that debate in the House I told you that your refusal to answer the question how prepared the country is for a second wave actually meant that you missed the train. It's verbatim my words from that conversation. I now come to the opening of tourism, Mr Mitsotakis. You said today - I heard you - that no one in the counterpopulation said to close tourism. You're making a big mistake! I said it in here, and you dared to iron me. Do You Remember? You stood up and said "Mr Varoufakis does not want billions of tourism this summer." What did I tell you? I have warned you that fewer tourists will come than they need to get the costs of the hotel opening, but they will also be more, as far as the burden on the Greek society is concerned. We said that then. We had the courage of our speech then. You were choking about how great and wonderful you were overcoming the coronary and, of course, our mockery we told you it was a disastrous move to open tourism this summer. In fact, you have simply wasted your own political capital, Prime Minister, with this unfortunate movement in the middle of summer and, of course, your even more unstable frustration in the preparation of schools and hospitals. We've been through this, it's not right now. You're talking about responsibility. Incidentally, rightly, Mr. Tsipras, you reminded the Prime Minister that at the time the troika pressed us to put 100% tax advance, to cut off the CSCE and continue recycling, to roam the debt crisis, you ye in here screamed "Sign on what Gerun gives you" and "Vasta, Gerun". You did well to remind them. Of course, it would be nice to remind them that together you signed the third memorandum after and even worse, at least on the semantic and aesthetic level, Mr. Tsipras, Geron, you had him in Maximos and you were happy to join, even after his discontinuation. Let's not forget that, but it doesn't matter right now. Prime Minister, you have rightly said - you often say it - that we must, unlike Donald Trump, trust science. That's right. But, Prime Minister, what science has advised you to give you 22 million for the acquisition of the media? What science was it that made Mr Stavoura in the draft budget to put a budget line for public health of EUR 300 million less than last year? Your scientists said that? What science has he dictated, Mr Kikilia - that you are not here - to go through this Chamber twice - that is to say, mock your own Members - the same amendment to hiring the same seats and present it the second time as if it were a new recruiting lot? No science, ladies and gentlemen, can have led you to the crisis of authoritarianism and sadism that we saw on the first day of the new restrictive measures. Mary Stefanos is her name, street musician in Thermi, Thessaloniki. The first day of the new measures and you want the people to support you. Does that mean moral legitimacy, which is what it means? It means proportionality of the actions of the Security Councils. Mary Stefan, street musician, sitting on a sidewalk, was singing. You fined her for not using a mask while she was singing, pointless move, occupied public space. I'm not telling you that it's not right to approach such a person and use it and convince it and say we have a lockdown. A fine of EUR 500 to a person like that at that time? That's how Lockdown is denouncing, Prime Minister. You have a Minister - supposedly - Citizen Protection, who is currently undermining the law, the legality, the legitimacy of the laws of the state in the way in which he has done the repression and does not stop anywhere by strengthening the break-up of society through toxic, sadistic autocracy. And while they fined the poor street musician at the same time - others have said it, but I will say it, I can't - buses were passing next to our people like sardines packed in. I don't think that's either - if you want - the advice of science. No science can be behind what happened in the hellhouses where refugees are locked all this time. No science could advise you not to do magazines, every week tests on nursing staff. Since the relatives do not even visit the elderly in the nursing homes, the infection, the dispersion of the coronary will be done by the staff. Which nursing homes did you systematically carry out periodic tests? Really, what science led to two incidents, which I witnessed, in two different Athens hospitals? First incident: Cabin doctor told me he was positive, but he continues on command, because otherwise the chamber will close. Occasion two: Trauma nurse, who transferred my father from one room to another, described me as an incident that day, that morning. A positive case, even if it was not asymptomatic, but it had symptoms, which were taken away from the hospital - and indeed that traumatizer - and they told him to go home because they had no place to put him. Do you know how he went to his house, Mr. Mitsotakis, this particular patient? They put him down, that certain traumatizer with another, and they told him to take a cab. And because he had no money getting a taxi, he sat in the tail and got on the bus with a mask. We wonder why you have lost control this time, have you lost public support, have you lost support from citizens? Don't ask yourself! The situation is very simple. Before you announced the new lockdown, last night, our party, Mer25, had made a announcement and we told you that we are not here to create conditions of questioning measures that should ultimately be imposed. But if you are to have our support in order not only to have our support measures, but to have you as governors our support - which we gave it to you in March - we demand tomorrow that you make the announcement, which you will make with the measures, three things: finally announce the funds for the creation of this public mass test system that you did not create after the first lockdown, to announce a thousand permanent staff posts for doctors and six thousand for nurses as a first stage and the appointment of private ITHs and private healthcare instruments, particularly in areas such as Thessaloniki, where the system is now falling apart. And we told you we wouldn't support you if you didn't at least announce that. Of course you're ignoring us. You don't have our support, Prime Minister. The restrictive measures are supported. You and your Minister do not have our support, given that you are currently refusing to do an order in Thessaloniki to minimize, if possible, the chances of having a hundred. You don't have it from society, you don't even have it from your people who voted for New Democracy. And I come now to the subject of education, because since March and April we have been constantly talking and invited you and challenged you not to miss the opportunity given by the first quarantine and in the summer to prepare a few classes in schools. And we said that, Mr Mitsotakis, you will remember, but ask the Minister of Digital Governance, and personally he will. We thought you'd set up the telematics platforms. Not two days, not two hours - what two days? - He couldn't stand the system. And it is unacceptable to throw it into 'CISCO'. It is unacceptable, Mr Mitsotakis, that! I have here the letter from the Panhellenic School Network to all gymnastics and high schoolgirls that clearly says that schools that have no fibre, cannot have more than one to five, do not have a maximum of ten, connections if they have a VDSL of 100 Mbps, which we know they have few schools. We know, in other words, very well from this letter, that the system did not raise telecommunications. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Secretary of Mera25 Mr Giannis Varoufakis submits for the minutes the above letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Please tell us, even at the last minute, Prime Minister, what percentage of schools have 24 Mbps. And you know that means a connection. It only means one connection to the entire school for parallel telephony! I've heard that it's 29% of schools. Let me know if I'm wrong. Give us your information. Secondly, tell me what percentage of schools have 50 Mbps, which can have up to five parallel connections and what percentage has a visual fibre with which it can have fifty connections. You tell me! Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in Aegina, I entered the neighborhood shop for a few small markets. The clerk there, I know her and she knows me, she was mad. And this official is your voter. So she was mad at you. He says to me "I get, I don't get clean 550 euros and I had to give 300 euros to buy a typified laptop for my child plus a printer". Ladies and gentlemen, have we abolished the Constitution? Does the Constitution not make it clear that public education and universal provision of the necessary means for it is a constitutional check? Where is the support of these people? Because education, even public and free, is classic. When in the same class you have a child who comes from a prosperous family and another who comes from a family that doesn't make it up, where parents are unemployed, who have psychological problems, these two kids don't have the same beginning anyway. There's inequality even there. When you put in the middle of different computers or when someone has a computer and someone doesn't have or someone has a 2 Mbps connection, while someone else has 50 Mbps, you import another kind of inequality. You introduce inequality into the same family, because a child has a better computer than his side. Not all children who go to the same private school have the same access to teletext. In other words, discrimination, inequalities and classicity are increasing and growing. Maximizes, becomes turbo! That's not what I see you're particularly concerned about. Let them connect, say, and we will also have some income criteria, and we will also give some tablets. You don't have that anxiety because none of your kids are going to these schools anyway. And I'm putting myself in, as my kid doesn't go either. But it is very important to know very well that, at the moment, those who see us, the few who see us - because you have fruitfruits hopes, they do not see us - are deceiving us almost everyone, because at the moment society is in crisis. With regard to absenteeism, is Mrs. Kerameos serious? Does he ask the teachers to leave the children who can't connect? Are we talking about the professor, the teacher who's tied to a tsatre? He can't connect. You said to come to school to connect. Even at school it can be connected, Prime Minister, because the school doesn't have enough lines. Besides, they could be one computer by the other and there's two teachers, one by the other and they don't even have WiFi in there. And you insist that this teacher should leave children alone? Eliminate absenteeism, at least in the period of teleworking. Tell us as liberals you're saying you're, how do you feel with Panopticon, which you're creating right now, with teleconferences that turn the lesson into a reality student-teacher show? Remote education requires scientific training. Open University in Britain is fighting it for fifty years to do it properly, to have a matter of privacy and to manage tele-instruction in a way that is done in favour of students and teachers and not against them. Prime Minister, since we are talking about political and human rights or at least since I have referred to them very little, I will come to the matter of the Polytechnic. First of all, I just read - and I don't know if it's true, disobey me, I hope it's not - that it was ordered, he says, a preliminary investigation by the Prosecutor of Thessaloniki with the question of the incitement to disobedience. In fact, the prosecutor, or the prosecutor, asked Thessaloniki's Security to investigate, says, the statements made by the president of hospital doctors calling for mobilisations for these aberrations made by your own government in hospitals. I hope it's not true. If it is, then you have sabotaged your argument for the Polytechnic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u81	Does the government control the D.A.?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u82	I'm asking you to tell me what your position is,
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u83	I would ask the speaker to continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u84	...because your position is being evicted by judges and journalists to what Mr. Koutsoubas rightly said, "the negligence" against the use of the Polytechnic. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] However, I shall refer to the Polytechnic at the moment, because that is what it is all about.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u85	Please don't interrupt the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u86	Your hypocrisy, Prime Minister, really here, is breaking the red even the explosive growth of the coronary. You talked about a wreath deposit in the field of the Polytechnic. Why? We did not do that on 25 March or 28 October. I do not think that 28 October is minor in relation to 17 November nor that 25 March is minor in relation to 17 November. The difference is that on November 17, the system you serve failed to incorporate it, and that is why it does not want to abolish celebrations such as October 28 or March 25 in the way you want to abolish not only this year, but forever, the course of the Polytechnic. We say something very simple. If we are allowed, with all the distances, to deposit a wreath in the field of the Polytechnic, then we demand our right, the political and the constitutional, to make the course. We will be there - I warn you and I challenge you to strike us - the Members of Mera25 of Attica, with the party coordinator and youth representative. We'll be with our masks, our distances, we'll ask our other members not to come and not to create a crowd. And I challenge you, Mr. Mitsotakis, to tell Mr. Chrysochoid to strike us, as he beat us at the court of appeal. Your problem is that right-wing DNA cannot be renounced. He sits here, like the celebration of the proclamation by the Golden Dawn tribunal to a criminal organization, so you hit that day at the court of appeal. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] I was there in front, you weren't. I saw very well what happened at the time. That's why you're going to hit again on November 17th. Real legitimacy, real legitimacy is served by what we do. We show the Greek people, we show those who want to protest what responsible disobedience means. We'll be nine, there'll be nine more in Patras, there'll be nine more in Heraklion, it might be in Peristeri. We will keep all precautions against the coronary and we will keep the maximum precaution against your toxic, class autocracy, saying "yes" on the way from the building of the National Metsovian Polytechnic to the American Embassy. I'm going back to the issues of education. I don't know if Mrs. Kerameau is listening to me right now. Ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible to learn from teleconferencing the way it is done. It's impossible. I'm telling you this as a teacher. We may teach things through Zoom, through Webex, but children don't learn. It's a big difference - and I'm telling you this as a teacher - what you're teaching from what another learns. Kids are removed, distracted, unable to watch. But something else can be done, which is a positive proposal that we are making. Did you think about turning from the teletex - a lesson to what has always been missing from the Greek school system, which is telework? What do I mean, "telework"? I don't mean as you work for the bank, but they're assigned to the kids and then they're supervised at the base one by one. Supervision. No lesson. Let's think about that. It is the only way for there to be real learning in the middle of quarantine and through tele-education. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not just a recession, it is not just a disease. It's true what my colleague said before. It is also depression, the personalization of misery, which the Greek people have not learned. One thing we knew from the years of Occupation, hardship, poverty, is how to entertain it, to entertain misery through socialism. I'm not talking against Lockdown. We do not support your Government, but we support the restrictive measures. But I want you to think about it. I want you to think at the moment what's happening in there in the apartments: Unemployed parents, scared grandparents, houses where three and four people - some older people, some young people - have to call - work, train with 20 mbps, which means a connection only - a god knows how to connect - and out of the way to paraphrase the well-known 'parparents', which are already calling them, even today, threatening them with gods and demons and in the deep after 30 December, which has been announced, will also take them home. It is the vicious but profitable cycle for your cycles between bankruptcy, public debt, which justifies continued austerity, and private debt, which leads to continued insecurity, especially with your bankruptcy law, in particular your “HRAKLE”. Prime Minister, you recently had a meeting, from what we read in the newspapers that support you, on the issue of Piraeus Bank. I tabled a topical question on Monday morning, hoping you might answer it tomorrow. You won't answer that either. It's all right! It is a question of the re-statement of Piraeus Bank. I am not going to blame you for the fact that, in fact, you are forced to give away 2 billion in Piraeus Bank, because this is written and guaranteed since October 2015, from the third memorandum of SYRIZA. But you have come out and said - and I read your own words, Prime Minister, or at least your Government Representative - that the government has committed itself to defending the short-term and medium-term public interest in the Greek banking system. Prime Minister, you understand that. Do you know what that means? In order not to lose the State from this republicisation of Piraeus Bank, you will have to next year - because you have said that in one year you will have sold it again - the shares will rise by 1,000%. Do you think that will happen? You believe, in other words, that the shares of Piraeus Bank and the Greek systemic banks, despite the huge volume of the new red loans of the huge recession, which, incidentally, I meant and talked to you about at least 10% recession and you were mocking yourself again, in the end - yet next year, they will rise by more than 1,000%. Good! Here we are, here you are. The second point I have raised in the question I raised for tomorrow, but you will not answer it, is this. I said: Do you realize that the huge increase in the provision of securitised red loans, given that the Piraeus Bank recently announced that it would put 13 billion more red loans into the hammer, which would be thrown into the secondary ERAKLE market, what it will do is to throw more prices and make sure you get another 12 billion more from the troika to give them to the predators? And what are you going to do about it? This is what I ask you from March and before March, when the 'HRAKLIS' was voted on. You never answered me or now you'll answer me. Will you order Mr Stakoura to freeze the public guarantee of 12 billion? It's just the question. You can say 'yes', you can say 'no'. You know, arrivals are what you're going to say, but I think he's leaving you out. Mr. Mitsotakis, that matters very much, why the pandemic of what it's doing? It speeds up and strengthens this darkness, this interaction, this feedback between bankruptcys, on the one hand, red loans and, of course, the continuing fall in banking capital. Do you remember in 2012-2013 what your government did? He detained Piraeus Bank and the rest of the banks. A huge sum, a volume of 40.6 billion, went from the Greek public sector - which, of course, was borrowed, had not to give it to the banks. After October 2015, with Mr. Tsipras' third memorandum, they were privatised again by public money. Because what you are doing now, which you will give them 2 billion, is written there, plus the 5.4 billion you, of SYRIZA, from Mr. Regling to give them. That is to say, whether a bank is stacked in the debt-government "Greece", whether it is privatised or re-ruralised, it needs public money to support banks that cannot be supported. And I can't count on them, because we're in debt, because this revolt between a recession, a recession - and a debt - depresses them into continuing insolvency. I'm telling you this. Now with the pandemic - clearly now you too - which I see to be the recession greater than 10%, how many new red loans will be created, Prime Minister? Tell us a number. I'm telling you it's going to be a minimum of 15 billion. What do you think? Doesn't that destroy HERAKLE? Does this not lead to the activation of the public guarantee of 12 billion? In other words, the only way Piraeus Bank could raise its value, do you know who it is? To break his leg, as we would say, to sell these red loans, to put them on the market of "HRAKLE" and as magically raise the share to such a degree that the shares you now buy ten times over their stock market value will reach a point so that the public does not lose much. Yes, but then you will lose 12 billion euros. In order for this process of privatisation and sale to the Piraeus Bank's red loans to have succeeded, auctions should be made. Because these auctions are not going to pay off what the "HRAKLE" contract says in, you have to give 12 billion euros. In other words, whether the re-privateisation of Piraeus re-publicised or failed will be lost. That is why you do not tell us that you are committed to defending the short- and medium-term public interest. This is impossible within a memorial process, which has been strengthened and extended by the pandemic that is finally as great as we said it would be and had nothing to do with the foolish figures you gave 3%, 4%, 5%, 7% and you went to 8% at some point. Really, when will you apologize for that? Here we go. Mr. Mitsotakis, when would he apologize? This is where I told you it'd be at least 10 percent and you were mocking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u87	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u88	Are you kidding me now? You're mocking yourself, you're making fun of yourself! A "I'm sorry" may be a reboot for you. What you're doing and what you're responding to right now and the vocals of your followers, they're just undermining your image even more. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] When will you admit that the Greek public debt is now absolutely unsustainable? Didn't you come out and say yesterday, Mr. Scully, Mr. Styros - I don't see TV luckily - and did you admit that the debt has exceeded 200%? Is it still viable? And don't start telling me about low interest rates. Low interest rates are part of the problem. It's not part of the solution. Why? What do low interest rates mean? All that proves low interest rates is that the Central Bank is calling the stock exchanges and says to them: "Don't worry about these Greek bonds, we know they're bankrupt, of course, but we're covering them." In other words, you are even more indebted to the European Central Bank than Mr Tsipras was before you, Mr Samaras before Mr Tsipras, Mr Papandreou before Mr Samaras. I now come to the point of focus and small and medium-sized enterprises. I had a conversation with the representatives of the focus, who you understand what the situation is. I will not take advantage of their agony and pain. I'm just going to tell you what I said to them, and I'd like an answer. You remember at the beginning of the crisis in 2010, the media, the various 'think tanks', some of your people, some of the PASOK people, who then had this Subeter account - who doesn't remember it, forget I said it - and said: 'What to do? It's the Greek economy. The bankruptcy crisis of 2010 is an opportunity to change one million Greek jobs, to go from non-marketable goods to market goods.” He learned the "tradable goods" and they called it. We then - some of us - told them: How would that happen? This transition, how will it be done in a collapsed economy where investment does not exist? They'll just be unemployed. The magic market doesn't exist. Today there are too many in your own circles, who understand - small and medium-sized - that you have the same culture of so-called creative destruction. "Let's just close the restaurants, they've opened a lot, it's a shallow entrepreneurship." Yes, entrepreneurship is a shallow thing. We should have entrepreneurship of value added higher. But it is another thing to close the focus at the moment, because you don't make them haircuts on late debts, but you're making them inhibited. You yourself said that, as far as Greece within the Eurozone is concerned, it is not only aid for the loans. You don't give aid that's capable of stopping the mass padlocks, the tsunami of the paddocks. But there are too many of them within your circle who think: "Don't matter, let them close", as they said then that a million Greeks should change their job. And they changed their jobs, became unemployed. That's what's gonna happen. With the account of the so-called creative devastation of Subetter, you destroy everything that creative, everything that can give people a breath. Destructive devastation for the many and creative snatching for the very few, the ones with whom you enjoy and confuse.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u89	Creative ambiguity...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u90	Yes, the creative ambiguity has made you redundant. You don't even know who thought of that idea. Henry Kessinger said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u91	Talk a little bit better, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u92	I'm fine. Because I referred to Henry Kessinger? I didn't mention Marx.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u93	You're welcome. There is no need for devaluation or interruption. Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u94	We are not followers, we are MPs!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, when you think I'm sad by referring to creative ambiguity. You just prove that not only do you represent the oligarchy, but how few are you serving the interests of the oligarchy. Prime Minister, you saw where we arrived. At the beginning of your pandemic we supported. At the beginning of the pandemic we were behind you. At the beginning of the pandemic, Prime Minister, in addition to political conflicts and party conflicts, there was a sense of solidarity in society. There was a sense of mutual protection in society out there. That was essentially the basis of your political capital. You don't insist on the ICUs. You don't support the NSA. You are doing absolutely nothing about mass tests and the public system that can only ensure that they are done. You've lost that trust. But in the end - and here I agree with Dimitris Koutsoubas - this crisis was born from the establishment you represent. He was born of an ecological, class and economic order that you represent. You are not going to be part of the solution. You'll be part of the problem. And since you're forcing me to talk to Marx, I'm going to hang up with Marx. Not with Carl, but with Grucho Marx. In his movie "Duck Soup" he said of someone: "Do you see him? He may look like an idiot, he may speak as an idiot, but he may not confuse you. He's an idiot." That's exactly what's happening today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u96	Who do you say that for?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u97	I'll tell you who I'm telling you about. For your policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u98	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u99	They may look saditically authoritarian in favour of the predatorial oligarchy that makes the epidemic an opportunity in favour of pillaging the few. Your policies may work as sacrificial autocratic policies in favour of predatorial oligarchy. But don't get confused. That's because it is!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u100	A small account as long as the disinfection is done. The usual time of the last eight sittings of Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure shall be three hours. We're already touching the five hours. As we have said on several occasions in plenary and in the Conference of Presidents, respect for time is no longer a matter for the Rules of Procedure. It is also a matter of health at the same time as a long time's presence. I am sure that all the speakers agree from now on in the second reading that the time should be respected. I stress that despite the triple of time, all the leaders, all of them, have spoken much more than the Prime Minister's excess. Their excess has been greater than the Prime Minister's overrun and which we have all tolerated here. But since this has led to about double the sitting time and we are still halfway through, I am sure that you all agree from now on that the time has come for us to be able to respond to the subject of today's speech, which is the measures against pandemic. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, I have chosen in my philosophy to be as specific as possible. I should like to answer questions raised by the Quaestorial Opposition and by the other parties, at the same time making an appeal not to raise the tone and to give an image in this Chamber, if anything, of the criticalness of the situation. I'm starting with the last speaker. It was neither a picture nor a vocabulary that you used, Mr Varoufakis. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If you think you can come here to make just one communication show, consider your own personal responsibilities for the situation in which you led the Greek banks. I do not remember you showing the same sensitivity to the weakest when you turned around and said: 'My love, I closed the banks' and retired people cried out of the ATMs. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Not even when you were being photographed in various life style magazines, highlighting the fresh image of SYRIZA government. So it is good in this Chamber to have a sense of our historical responsibilities. And unfortunately, you personally for the third memorandum, for the bankruptcy of your Greek banks, are burdening you with many such responsibilities to think that we have forgotten them so easily. I shall now come and try to respond to what I have heard in keeping with the timeframe that you have set, Mr President. I understand, of course, that this debate is of particular importance. I hope and hope that a number of Greek citizens will follow her. I would first like to begin by replying to Mr Tsipras on a point of order. I was really amazed at it and I think it is worth commenting on Parliament's assertions that, before you even get to the Step to give your speech, you have already distributed the text of your speech to the journalists. The speech you will make, in response to what I have said, you have shared it with the journalists. He's here all shared up. It is also very interesting that on the first page of your speech, you start by saying - they are what you said - how selfish and dissatisfiing I was in the speech. You wrote these or wrote them to you before you heard me. I don't understand, I mean! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I did not express the speech which you expected me to say despite that, and you shared the speech and said the same. But are these serious parliamentary things, Mr. Tsipras? I have been a little concerned with the Opposition and with you personally and very much about answering the reasonable questions that Greek citizens have. I cannot, however, dispel the fact that there has been a controversy here, which I understand, Mr President, has also taken public features, as to how many intensive treatment units at the Salvation Hospital really work. You said nine out of fifty. Our briefing, from the hospital commander, is that they all work. And that is exactly what the President of the Parliament has moved into his place. He didn't go to see them himself. He made a statement from the hospital commander and said they all work. And what happened next? Apocalypse, Mr. Paulakis with a vulgar hybrid online, attacked the President of the Parliament, in other words, against all of us, with unspeakable phrases of being a liar because he said that all fifty intensive treatment units were working. Here two things may happen: Or the information, which we have is not accurate, so I can commit you that the commander of the “Salvation” Hospital who gave us this information or Mr. Paulakis is lying, so at some point you must decide to remove it for the insulting way in which he continues to express himself. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I suspect, however, that the problem is not Mr Paulakis himself, the problem is wider, the problem is 'pollism'. I describe 'pollution' as a mixture of irony, arrogance, falsehood, lies, irrationalism. This means 'pollution'. Only by this 'pollution' you can't hear, because such features are distinct from your speech. Mr Paulakis was absent, but his spirit was expressed through yours. I sincerely tell you: You have the illusion that you have political capital to consume, using that kind of reason. I must tell you, however, that you are no longer the hopeful candidate, you are the failed former Prime Minister and the failed one is not my crisis, it is the Greek people's crisis, because if you were successful you would not be in the chairs of counter-population. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Sometimes I really hear you feel that the harder the problems we have to deal with, the more the shallowness of your positions and the less sufficient you are to be able to articulate one, even in elementary factually documented, convincing alternative political speech. I now come to respond to a number of specific issues raised by the political leaders. I asked you in my prototype not to use the statistics of deaths and not to attempt the same acrobatic that you made use of a percentage increase in deaths, not to take into account the fact that the base numbers you compare were too low, because we took them in the first wave. And you said that in the second wave of deaths we're messed up. I'll put aside the first wave. So I will testify to just the cases and deaths of the last 24 hours in the Minutes. When in Greece we had forty-three deaths, in Portugal we had eighty-two, in Belgium we had three hundred forty-five, in Italy we had six hundred and twenty-three. In the figures, there is a tough statistic, which, unfortunately, is unrelenting. At some point you may understand it and it is - unfortunately - a number of deaths per million people. That is the tragic indicator of the evaluation. There's a second indicator. I've told you many times, you insist you don't understand. And this is the indicator of extra mortality, of express Mortality, of how many more people than one would expect to lose their lives in a normal year, die because of a pandemic or a particular crisis. These are the elements and these are the only comparable elements. So stop plucking on those numbers. And stop today presenting an image of our country, which does not respond to reality. I've told you many times you have a right to have your opinion. But you do not have the right to question official data as they are presented by the ECDC, the European mechanism for the prevention of infections. That also applies to the tests. Greece is not much worse than the rest of the countries that perform tests. It's about the same fate as everyone else. Would you like to run more tests? Yeah, we'd like to run more tests. And to those who spoke of a testing strategy in the population and random sampling are done, ladies and gentlemen. And I will repeat that we were the first country, the first country in Europe that provided rapid test reliable, because there are also rapid tests that are completely unreliable. And these rapid test have been used and through the contest we have ordered two million more to go to completely random sampling, so that we can have better accuracy in the predictability of our models. So all that you ask for is things that are done. And I'll say what I said in my prototype again. I really would like you all to comment on it. When the intensive doctors themselves come and say 'what has happened in recent months, is what we have always asked for and not done', do you really think that the world will believe you and not the doctors, the specialists, who say so? Indeed, in the crisis, we have had to do things that might otherwise take more time. And it is a miracle that this unit of the "Salvation" Hospital which has rushed in such a vulgar way that the usual suspect, Mr. Paulakis, took place in three months. It was a miracle that happened. It is not common for the Greek State to work at these rates, and the same applies to the donation of the Narchy Foundation, because it is not enough simply to get a bed, it must have a suitable place to put it, it needs construction work that needs to be done in hospitals and it obviously needs suitable staff, which is not easy to discover. There is no endless number on the lists of candidates and entrepreneurs or anaesthetics, people who can serve these intensified ones. So these are things that are happening and I would like all the political leaders to comment on Mrs Cotanidou's statement. What's going on here? Is she, too, just like Mr. Chiodras? Is he serving the government? Does he have political ambitions? Does he have any other political purposes? Or is it quite simply telling the truth that there has been significant progress in the crisis? We're not where we want to be, but please, at last, ask Mr. Blonde who's behind you. Aren't you telling me, Mr. Xanthi, on your own day there were patients who had to be hospitalized in intensive and didn't find a bed? Tell me about 'yes' or 'no'. Of course, they were, as was the case for our own days, as has always been the case in this country, because we had a stable deficit of intensive beds. This to date, despite the enormous pressure, is not happening. And don't talk about patient sorting again, about whether the surgery that was compulsory is postponed. Ask, Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Blonth. Is there a European country that today has not suspended non-critical surgery? Mr. Xanthi, is there one? Mia! Tell me a European country that has not done so. So how do you come here and blame the government for what is happening everywhere in the world when there is a huge, unique crisis in the last hundred years? Ask Mr Blonde, Mr Tsipras, if there is a country in which this is not the case, as is the issue of choice. I have heard from some people that there are supposedly some patients who are losing their lives and that is not the case in intensive care units. Of course, this is always the case and it is always the case, and so it must be because there are many cases of people who doctors, those responsible for the intensives who have the first and last word on who needs to be evacuated, in consultation with the families and in order not to suffer their loved one - all the doctors in here know it, everyone knows it! - they decide not to intrude. This is done in all the countries of the world, it is done in Greece, it is done and will continue to be done, not because there are no intensive ones, but because that is ultimately human and medical correct. So this is to restore the truth about the issues that have to do with the National Health System. [[At this point the closing bell of the speaking time of the President of the Government is ringing.]] I shall try to be brief, Mr President. Let me come to the question of public transport, for which I have heard quite a few criticism from other opposition parties. Look, we made a great effort to add buses to the urban transport system in Athens and Thessaloniki. I don't need to describe the situation in which you specifically handed us over to OSH in Thessaloniki. Mr. Pappas, the father of the congressman, Mr. Pappa, has handed us an OSH broken up! This is something that, I think, there is no Member from Thessaloniki who does not know very well. So we have added buses as fast as possible. And obviously, competitions that had been rejected by the competent authorities as illegal will not be completed on our own days! Isn't that right? I don't suppose you're asking us to outlaw us because you had prepared tea-frog contests that didn't stand anywhere. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] From there on, however, there are a few studies which say that public transport does not play the most important role in the spread of the virus. I see here: 'Public transport is COVID free'. A study by France, which says that in relation to other sources of possible dissemination, only 1.2% of COVIDclosters are connected to public transport. That's evidence. We're not saying we're satisfied with the picture. And it does not satisfy us with a picture not only because of COVID. We have a duty to support public transport, because this is what our fellow citizens are using, who have no other way to move. It's our obligation and commitment, and the relevant contests and recruitment proceed. Because I don't remember - the truth is - you've made so many recruitments on your own days. In any case, if your work on intensive and public transport was so successful, I imagine in some way that you would show it. One of my colleagues showed me a very interesting text: “SYRIZA Report 2012-2019”. So I searched - not me, I ran it all, but we searched - and we said there will be no page on public transport and on health, on intensive transport? Will there not be one paragraph on public transport and intensive transport? Won't there be a proposal in your account? But there's not a word in your account! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So take him and see him! You haven't said anything! You yourself said nothing. You had nothing to say about this because you just didn't do anything at all. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by referring to what I have heard about the course of the Polytechnic and the way in which this year's anniversary is to be celebrated. I oppose all of these - I use a heavy word, consciously - disgusting things Mr Varoufakis said that the polytechnic class is identified with our extreme right-wing DNA. And at the University there were citizens of all political parties! Just some have built a career on the Polytechnic and others with modesty have kept the resistance they have done for themselves! [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] Again you'll tell us that only left-wingers were at the Polytechnic. Just some people didn't build a career on the Polytechnic, remember it whenever it suits them! Come on, let's finish these ideological unbabes in this Chamber. That's enough! I told you about the Resistance. Listen to them for the Polytechnic! [[Upright Members of the New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] Look, this is also addressed to Mr Koutsouba and Mr Varoufakis, who spoke about'responsible disobedience'. It was after 'creative ambiguity'. Together, he's hanging out. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Look, you're not Mahatma Gandhi who talked about them. [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] There is, indeed, this concept, only used at other times and against resistance to regimes, which were free and non-democratic. So because there is a Parliamentary Republic here and because the laws apply to everyone, I would like to inform both Mr Koutsouba and Mr Varoufakis that they are not excluded from the overall application of the laws. As for every Greek citizen, it applies to both the Communist Party and to you and to Mr Varoufakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u102	They're enjoying you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u103	It is now up to Mr Alexis Tsipras, Chief of Staff and Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u104	I'm going to Stepma because I think that's healthier. It's the plexiglass, too. Prime Minister, I have heard your speech and even though you have begun with a style of educational, gymnastics, addressing Mr Varoufakis, to bring him on the right path, and you have spoken of inadvertentity, inadvertentity and a way that is inconsistent with parliamentary morals, but you have not been able to hide your irritation. You have spoken with hard arguments and designations against all your political opponents, while you would expect, after almost five hours, to have felt exactly where we are. I heard all the political leaders. All political leaders have tabled concrete proposals. Most have put forward constructive proposals and criticism, in which, of course, you have an intolerance. However, they have tabled constructive proposals. You are the only ones who show up astonishing to be proud that you have done everything well and to oppose the opposition. I would like to make a comment on the proposals that have been made before I actually came to the point and what you said in your speech. A meeting of the political leaders at this stage, given - I repeat - that all parties and all the leaders feel the criticalness of moments - apart from you rather - would be useful not to be informed, but also to understand how to save yourself at this critical moment. But you deny it. But you insist on the logic of rejecting any idea and of opposing opposition. I think you don't feel the criticality of moments. Only when we talk in this Chamber - they are over five hours - statistically speaking, more than twenty of our fellow citizens in the ICMs, in the beds outside the ICMs and many helpless people in their homes. And what do you have to answer these people? Did you come back here again in your discourse to bring back statistics and tell us that more people die in Belgium? There are fewer than forty who die every day in our country. To go to the families of people who have lost their fellow people and tell them that more are dying in Belgium!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u105	Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u106	Oh, yeah? Did I have to understand anything else, Mr. Mitsotakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u107	You don't understand anything!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u108	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u109	He understands and listens to us, but - do not worry - he sees and judges and compares.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u110	Fortunately!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u111	Did you tell us what you're going to do to deal with the crisis? You didn't tell us what you were going to do to deal with the crisis. You told us one more time. While the world is gone, you must attack again and again on the left, you must attack your political opponents, you must call on your MPs to stand up to you, because you told us that citizens from all parties, from all political wings and from all trends. This, Mr. Mitsotakis, you often do. No one's coming here to question it. No one comes to question it. These are issues that have long been resolved. You did it with the matter of the National Resistance at the previous session. However, every political party and every government actually proves how much it honors the symbolism of the Resistance's actions and how much this price comes here today. Because you are the government that has brought, for the first time since post-policy, a law prohibiting mergers. No other government brought him. There is also a very serious issue of democracy, a very serious issue of democracy. The quarantine is understandable. There's no other way we're here. This does not mean, however, that in the name of the protection measures that we all have to take, not the institutions will operate, there will be a monitoring regime for the daily lives of people, there will be no possibility for citizens, parties, movements, bodies, in a way that respects the difficult situations that we are experiencing, the epidemiological conditions, but in a symbolic way, to express their political messages. You started your speech with a genius - let me the characterization - of the joke, in the sense that you said that I shared my speech beforehand. It was one of the speeches I have made that I have not used the text at all. But be careful. I do, in fact, send a draft text to journalists before my speech. Do you know what you're doing? Then send a plan.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u112	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u113	Firmani then send the journalists about what they're going to play, not only from your speech, but also from my speech, as you missed a week ago and sent from the Office of Taxior Firm and some media reproduced it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] What do you want to compare now? This is your understanding of democracy. "Play that Tsipras hits Tsiodra" wrote and reproduced two media. One of them, ‘LIBERAL’, apologized to me and the users, to readers. But you sent these. This is your understanding of democracy. This is your understanding of citizens' information. You come here and tell us we lie all the time and you keep going out the liar. You said you never said, you never blamed us for the forty dead of the flu two years ago. Here, here, the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u114	What's he saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u115	What does it say, Mr. Mitsotakis? Already, the Internet is found from the videos that play, which refer to that meeting. In fact, it was your favourite issue, for the accession of Northern Macedonia, for its accession perspective. You then told us that you 'never', you said, 'you will accept the accession perspective of Northern Macedonia to the European Union'. 'You will freeze' you said 'the accession process'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u116	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u117	And you said, once you started your speech, “forty fellow citizens have lost their lives, hundreds are hospitalized, many in intensive, many more are ill with the flu virus. I am sorry, Minister, but it is a fact unacceptable in the 21st century and it proves that the government, unfortunately, has not dealt with it in time..." etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u118	No 'and everything else'. Go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u119	What do you want, Mr. Mitsotakis? What do you want? What exactly do you want? But you will give me more time, Mr President. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Wait a minute, don't rush. "Our forty fellow citizens have lost their lives, hundreds are hospitalized. Many in intensive, many more suffer from the flu virus. I am sorry, Minister, but this is a fact unacceptable for the 21st century and it proves that the government, unfortunately, did not tackle this underlying rumour of anti-infection in time. It has not even proceeded with the proper information of the public...'. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] And what does that mean? “...not in the fast supply of pharmacies, while many beds in the intensive - unfortunately - remain closed and the primary care, the so advertised reform of the TOMY, has not actually been implemented. We all know that it is a system that collapses." You complained to us, Mr. Mitsotakis, about the forty dead of the flu virus. And you have the courage to shake the finger that we play and blow, when we have forty dead in our country today, the day and not in an entire semester! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It's embarrassing what you're doing. And you're constantly trying to disprove your interlocutors at the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u120	No vacation on the speaker, please. Questions are not solved now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u121	You will give me more time, Mr President. I'm sorry, it's not my fault. You are constantly referring to the crucial issue of Lockdown. You asked us during your first speech whether we were in favour or against Lockdown. But the question is not whether we're in favour or against it now. The point is why we've come this far. Each day, bring an extra measure. Almost every day you undo the measures you announced the previous day. Today we hear you're getting ready, says, for military law measures, military-type measures. Prohibition has already been announced since 21.00. You know what? Only with repression is the problem not tackled. It also needs prevention, not just repression. You announced yesterday that after 21.00, we will thankfully be able to all those who have pets and we are friendly to get them out of the house with this SMS message. But for caregivers? You haven't taken care of them. For pets, okay. In other words, if some families have people who need special care, will they be able by banning traffic to help their fellow humans? I come to the most important point, because I say that it is not just repression. The main thing is prevention. You took out a whole lot of money for the Polytechnic. But you didn't tell us what would happen now, directly in Thessaloniki, in northern Greece. Are you going to check private nurses? Thessaloniki is suffocating. The Diavalcanic Center, however, is comfortable. All hospitals currently in northern Greece and especially in Thessaloniki, the public, have full limit, 100%. The Diavalcany, however, is comfortable. Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u122	Please, no vacation. You do not facilitate the progress of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u123	Will the private hospitals receive COVID incidents or become public hospitals, hospitals of a disease? Will you open the 424? I asked for it a week ago. Will you open it? Will you take a breath right now on the suffocating problem in northern Greece? But the question is how you can take advantage of the possibilities that the private sector can give you. Even the necessary staffing of the private sector is done on privileged terms for the clinical authorities, with twice a day’s hospital and with lower staffing and safety standards, with the possibility of increasing 40% of the IF beds, but with the same staff. At this time of crisis I ask: are there any people who have to prioritise speculation? And can we let that happen? In Thessaloniki there is the Diavalcanic, there is the "Saint Lucas", there is the "Cyannes Cross", the nursery "Galinos", the General Clinic. We must now allow their beds to also be given for COVID incidents, to breathe the health system. I also heard you blame us on the issue of the Salvation Hospital. Look, because I am perfectly accurate in what I say, I said, ladies and gentlemen, from this Step forward, that the Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Kaklamanis, in an interview with him the day before yesterday, said that from the fifty beds ICU in the 'Save', only nine operate. And here's the post. It's an interview by Nikita Kaklamanis at the militaire.gr website. Mr. Carvoulopoulos, the journalist, who says exactly that. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] And let's see exactly what's happened. There are three IFs at the Salvation Hospital. That's the ones we left. We increased by eighteen in the "Save" of the "Save", with twelve, sixteen beds and ten beds respectively, a total of thirty-eight beds. Everything is filled with COVID incidents. Of the fifty beds that the House gave are used - Mr Kaklamanis was right yesterday - twelve or nine. I don't know exactly how much it is today. The rest, Mr President, and you are not wrong, is operational. But, look out. They are functional because individuals came, were transferred, moved by doctors and nurses from anesthetic departments of small hospitals, at first for one month. Later you made the nine contract. In short, to understand it - because Mrs Gennamas has also referred to it - and she has obviously had genuine information from the "Save" - obviously what you have done is that in order to make the beds created by the House operational, you bring staff and indeed from critical services, unconscious parts of small hospitals, that is, to avoid operating. That's what you're doing. That, if you say he solves the problem, we say that he is stepping up the problem. Because the fundamental problem, the main problem - I repeat - is the lack of staff, the lack of staff and permanent staff. You don't have to get far. The proof of your failure is that while all the opposition has been talking to you for eight months about lack of staff, you have just come to table an amendment for three hundred intensifiers. Permanent intake of three hundred intensifiers. Are they enough to send the system? To see your constant monologue with the private sector, as well as the constant neglect of the people who give the battle to the frontline, the doctors and nurses of the national health system, now that the troubles come and say: "We will give private doctors tax free 2,000 euros to come and help for six months." You'll obviously do it. The question is: Have you thought about the people who give the battle there, the auxiliarys who give the battle there, the permanent doctors who give the battle there and take less, that you also make two speed staff? Have you thought of that? Have you also thought that now would be an excellent opportunity to conclude a National Health System Support Plan, not only with new recruitment posts for permanent doctors? You went to Thessaloniki to the army while you said we had war, and you announced fifteen thousand permanent recruitments to the Army. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Yes, you did. The hospitals? Aren't we at war at the hospitals? Or - should we say it now - the difficulties we face at this time, the inability to control the Turkish challenge is due to the fact that we do not have permanent personnel in the Army? But I'm not coming to compare. I'll have to get to the Army. But when you say that we have a war on health, why do you go to PD and say we're better managing the second phase of pandemic than the first and you don't talk about permanent staff in public hospitals? I explained it to you in my first talk. Because you have the ideological obsession of the public-private partnership, the privatization of public health and you do not want an extra trouble in your head, that is, to charge permanent staff. But you want to provide services to individuals. Heavy and unhealthy are a mature demand for those people who take over 8 euros and are there for too many hours facing the risk of being infected, but also for human misery. But you have another perception. You have done the same for public transport. In the media your perception was: No driver intake. More than two hundred vehicles are currently parked in the trains and could go out into the day-to-day operation. You don't. But you know how to distract drivers from ministerial offices. Only to your ministers right now are fifteen drivers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, let us take a look at the time, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u125	I will try to finish in two minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u126	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u127	You're always telling us that you're the ones with science, and we're not. The truth is that you want to hide behind certain scientists and not generally from science, because other things are science and other scientists. I would like to ask you, Mr Mitsotakis: will you keep in mind the parties, will you put the minutes of the committee in mind, in order to find out what the scientists have proposed, and what exactly are you doing? Because this - how did you say it in the speech first? - which prompted us, which stumbled us - this word you used - it was not that you deceived a scientist in public pan-Hellenic direct transmission, calling him "Sotiris". That didn't bother us. "Sotiras, show the slides." No, it wasn't that, so you didn't talk to him in the plural. What has bothered us is that you constantly want to blame the scientific community. You want to blame your own political decisions. So I ask you to tell us: was it their opinion that tourism should be opened in the way it has been opened, that is what Mr Georgiadis has said? Is it their opinion that you should increase the completeness of ships to 80%? Is it their opinion that you should not do anything about public transport and not increase routes? Was they in agreement to open up schools just as you closed them, even raising students by grade in elementary school? Was their opinion at the outset to want to open the stadiums while you had the picture that the cases are growing? Bring the Minutes, then. Of course you can tell us, you who constantly blame the young - and today you have done so - what the scientists told you about the elderly. It's not just the cafeteria virus. In the nursing homes, the virus reapes. What's the matter there? Is it the irresponsible old people having a party? What did they tell you about the nursing homes? Did they tell you about the workplaces? What did they tell you about closed structures? What did they tell you about immigration structures? Did they tell you to take action or didn't they tell you to take action? Unfortunately, I have a lot to say on the issues of the economy. I'll finish with two sentences. First proposal for schools: Make mass tests, Mr. Mitsotakis. She has tabled a fascinating personal experience here, Mrs. Gennimata. Listen to her. I didn't tell her. Mrs. Gennamas told her. It's about a case in her family. When a child in one class gets sick with a coronary, there's no protocol to perform all the children's tests. They're just going home. And what do those who do not have the financial means do? They don't test and the whole family sticks. Secondly, it is not just the subject of the provider, ‘CISCO’, and telecommunications. Secondly, in my opinion, it is a question that Mr Varoufakis correctly raised. It's the issue of classics. Do you have the impression that each Greek family, every Greek household, has the ability to have two children - perhaps more - who do television and can have a parent who can also have the teleworking have two, three, four computers? Can you believe that? The Portuguese Prime Minister, as you wish to be compared to other countries, has produced a programme - of course, he is a socialist and not a centreright who is you. How do you want us to tell you? Neoliberal, liberal? - for a hundred thousand laptops in schools to meet on income criteria this major issue of inequality. Are you concerned about this? Will you do something? And I close with it, in my view, a very crucial issue. The world of work is what I'm going to say. You announced a job allowance. Only those who complete 12 months of registered unemployment after 1 March shall have the right to do so. In other words, you are giving unemployment benefit to long-term unemployed, but who have been long-term unemployed in the last 12 months. Previous ones? According to OAS data, we are talking about thirty - thirty thousand who will receive the allowance from the five hundred seventy - eight thousand. The others? We call on you, Mr Mitsotakis, even for the month of Christmas to proceed with an income support - breath for the Greek society that is sighing, to implement our proposal for an emergency income that provides EUR 400 to the first adult member, EUR 200 to the second and EUR 100 to each child. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This is a measure which will benefit 1.9 million households, four million people. Its budgetary cost is 900 million for a month. With regard to the workers affected in the private sector, we also call on you to take over the full coverage of the Christmas gift - I repeat for the affected businesses - so that the Christmas gift can be terminated. It must be fully taken into account by the workers who are entitled to it and do not impose any further burden on the firms affected. This will cover over 1.2 million workers at a financial cost of just 1.4 billion. The proposal is an emergency income and a Christmas gift of 2.3 billion. You will say: 'We don't have the money, it's a lot'. You have 37 billion in public funds, Mr. Mitsotakis. We left them to you. You kept them. We left them to you. You have the European Union to call on all Member States to spend what they need to deal with the health crisis and the social and economic crisis, an extraordinary programme of quantitative relaxation of the European Central Bank, which enables us to borrow at zero rates, financial instruments available. You've all got it. Just understand that the world, the majority of the Greek people, is not your world, the one you understand. The vast majority are narrowing, they are indeed dependent on their wages, they are unemployed who are not able to survive, they are small and medium-sized businessmen who close their shops, they are self-employed, they are people in the area of culture that are narrowing. And you always triumph that you did everything well and you keep telling us about billions. We're full of billions, but no one or rather the overwhelming majority have seen a substantial backing to get over this brothel. The only people who see substantial support are funds and bankers. With this policy, however, you cannot go away and our responsibility is to highlight these proposals, but also to fight for the salvation of human life and for the salvation of society.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u128	The next item is the debate on Mrs Fotini Gennamata, President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President. After all these hours of discussion, there are some conclusions. The first conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, is that the government has lost valuable time. He has lost valuable preparation in order not to find us the second wave of the pandemic powerless, which could delay the second wave even longer and certainly reduce its intensity. Because what is our goal from the start? We need to earn time with the fewer losses until we get to the point where the vaccine is not just going to be found, but it will have reached the population and given the opportunity to protect the population. This is unfortunately not the case. Indeed, the general prohibition was now imposed. But, as I said before, Prime Minister, it was not inevitable. The worst thing we can do today is that you do not want to admit or understand the mistakes you have made so far and that means that you are not prepared to correct them. That's the most dangerous, because we have a road in front of us uphill and difficult, as I said. We are not satisfied with the various comparisons with other countries that were far worse than us. Obviously, we are not concerned with comparisons with the previous government at all. That is why the Greek people elected you to be at least a little better than the previous ones. And all this perception and this measure of comparison with poor situations emits a misery and a sense of low expectations, which cannot create hope and uplift to the Greek people who need it today more than ever! Change the line quickly, Prime Minister. Because I told you before that the problem isn't your government. The problem is what the Greek people are facing. Conclusion two. You're saying half the truth. You say too many times that we have moved first, faster than everyone else we are taking decisions on banning and restrictive measures. Yes, sir. But, in fact, what you are hiding, the rest of the truth is that you are necessarily leading to more severe restrictions every time, because you know that there are difficulties with the resistance of the health system, which you did not do what you had to do to support and shield it, while so many months you knew exactly what is coming and what is waiting for us. Now, with regard to Mrs Cotanidou's statements, I have made a full analysis of my prototype, which you have either not heard or done what you are missing. I would therefore refer you to the Minutes of the debate because I do not have time to discuss them again. It was full. Please read why it can help you understand what you need to do for the ESS. The design for the National Health System must start from the activation of regional self-government, to increase also from there the tracking, from primary health care and mobile workshops providing services at home, from most tests to cover the price of the test for those who are obliged to do so, from strengthening hospital beds and, of course, from the activation of the necessary intensive care units, not by deviating other important public hospitals to large urban centres, because this is the wrong design, it has short legs. Simplified. We've submitted all the proposals to you. Read them and use them anyway. Conclusion third. You constantly insist on presenting your own approach to reality. But reality is one and the Greek people experience it in their everyday life. You cannot admit that it was wrong that you opened the land borders in the way you did, without any control and that is irrelevant to what is happening in northern Greece. What is happening in northern Greece and Thessaloniki especially at the moment is embodiing the gaps in your policy, for which we are currently criticising you for so many months now, but you are closing your ears and doing that you are not listening to us. Especially today as if we were not there, as if we had not told you absolutely anything about all the issues that we have told you. And I'm going to tell you two things, which I imagine at least will trouble you: On October 26, on St. Demetrius's day, the cases in Thessaloniki were eighty-four. Fifteen days later, 11 November, the cases in Thessaloniki were seventy-seven and obviously not just fun. Obviously, you could have thought that St. Demetrios' celebration was a key, critical point, and you should have understood it earlier, Prime Minister, and not see conspiracy images of churches and priests without masks, while contrasting instructions had from the Holy Synod. And the question is who finally controls the implementation of the measures. Is it also the Opposition's fault? I read somewhere - because there are many clever writings in social media - that the Change Movement is the ESS and the New Democracy is the culmination of 'your fault'. It's always someone else's fault except you. Treat it, because you need to solve problems, not just because you have now, but at the moment the cost for Thessaloniki is huge. And I'm not going to get into this hideous conversation that I can't watch for death. Death is not percentages, it's people, it's a loss of vast, irreplaceable for every family that is currently losing people from the coronary. And it is appalling that the debate is taking place in the Greek Parliament. Let us at least make a commitment here today that until we get to the clearing, we will not change the binding commitment of anyone who enters the country, whatever nationality, and have a negative test in their hands at least two days. This must not change again and should have been the case from the outset. At the same time, prepare for the end of Lockdown not to have the same phenomena again. It is not a solution to Lockdown - physarmonica, 'open - close, open - shut'. There are serious consequences for health and the national health system and the economy, especially for the weakest. It is not possible to continue assembling. I don't know what you've been talking about about what the buses and the public transport are about, but the crowding of buses in Greece over the last few months, with responsibility of the previous government for what it has handed over, but also your responsibility that you have done nothing to deal with, is huge. Don't tell me now, Prime Minister, that no one sticks to buses when they're on each other and they're killed for who's going to lead and who's coming down! These images must be finished! What you had to tell us today is not that they don't fit into buses, but when you're gonna solve the problem of buses. This is what the Greek people expect to hear from you. I come to economic matters. From this debate today, we once again conclude that all the interventions you have made since the beginning of the pandemic have been very targeted at supporting the few and strong ones. You do not understand that 80% of the liquidity given over these months went to the big and good customers of the banks and not to those who needed it. This cannot go on. Change the line on both the issue of liquidity and the strengthening of businesses. The criterion must be the viability of enterprises, not what the banks want. Finally! Nor can there be any abandonment of workers in poverty and unemployment and the social inequalities allegedly exist in the shadow of the pandemic, because your measures are inadequate and you know that. We have also tabled dozens of proposals for this. Read them and at last do something of them in time and not retarded again! I come to a very important point that we have already raised today. As of 7 November, there have been appreciations of basic foods. And that is really challenging and unacceptable, because this sector is the only one that has not been affected. The evidence is found at the Ministry of Development's Observatory, the matter was raised by our Member, and the Minister responsible told you that we were right. However, because we are right, we have heard this too many times, but our right to see it, and especially the Greek people do not see it, at last take steps. This is incomprehensible to continue even for one day. We expect actions. As far as the Polytechnics School is concerned, our position is self-evident. It is clear that the celebration of the Polytechnic School this year must be done modestly and in measured terms, on the understanding that we are a country in quarantine with restrictions and that people's lives and public health predominate. Is it possible to say that we will send our people on a course to be next door to each other? Obviously not. But what I can't understand is why for things you just and self-evidently choose to set up an incredible fight. Or maybe I understand. You are looking every time for a diversion, a disorientation from the big and serious problems that you have not given any answers and are looking for a field to set up a new government and officer fight. It is unacceptable and also appalling for the problems of each Greek family, but also for the Polytechnic in itself. It's too bad! And I close with this, Mr Mitsotakis: To endure, we have to change. He's gone once more! They're gonna transfer them to him. So I repeat that in order to be able to withstand, we must change. And I'm afraid Mr. Mitsotakis has absolutely no desire to change. And this is a very big problem for Greek society. We need a plan, a plan that also has a vision, but also a responsibility for health and education, for society and for the economy. This plan should also be accompanied by a new budget. We will be here in the budget debate, so let us see what the government's plan is for from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u130	We also thank Mrs Gennamas, who has been quite slim in using the time of dentistry. On behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, once again we heard the well-known governmental trophy of "individual responsibility", again "individual responsibility", "individual responsibility" in narcotics and secondaryism, as if we were still in March, in April, as if not all the events that have brought us here. You are, of course, abstracting and advocating, Prime Minister, on specific proposals. Of course, I do not know whether all you have achieved is what Mrs. Gennimata said, that is to say, to play a two-party rookie game again here, that is to say to give someone to Mr. Tsipras, like him in turn to give you his own passes, you addressing a far-right reactive audience that is interested in you after the trial of Golden Dawn and condemning her as a criminal organization or the Greek Solution or anyway all of this space, and Mr. Tsipras, of course, as always, to an audience of former fans, members, PASOK executives, centre, central left, left, etc. I don't know, the course will show it. Of course, the Greek people are used to it. We all know what is going on, and we can draw political conclusions now and judge both the Government and the Civic Opposition and all the political forces. And, of course, we all know now in here, as the Greek people know, that this road that primarily repossessssssssss individual responsibility to hide state, government irresponsibility, is precisely this road that is crumbling today, with stewardess, after all, even government officials. And they confess it, because the facts are stubborn and reality is not hidden. And it's not just Mr. Georgiadis. There is what the Minister of Tourism said, Mr. Theocharis, who cynically admitted that if we put a horizontal seven-hour test for entry in the summer, only a hundred thousand tourists would enter Greece instead of 4.4 million! That's what the Minister of Tourism said. This cynical confession made, by celebrating the conditions under which tourism was opened in the previous months, which were not one of the big-time protocols, the tour operators, air-groups, shipowners and go by and say. In other words, it confirmed what the world has with drums and the government with hidden pride, that you played the health of the people in the gambling of the great, the great business interests. This, of course, is not only about the tourism and transport sectors, but about the overall policy on the management of the pandemic, because you have all set up an economy entirely dependent on tourism and transport. This is, after all, the famous extrovert that you have made your flag for years, when you have undermined and continue to undermine our country's sufficient productive potential. And it is one of the reasons we are experiencing, of course, much faster and much stronger and deeper the economic crisis. The image presented today by the Prime Minister is raping the very reality, namely the one described by the health doctors themselves, the doctors, the nurses, their clubs, because here you cannot invoke the scientists in a card, those who have politically agreed with you have higher science and everyone else is lying or incapable. We invite you to go one day to "Evangelism", "Salvation", "Generality", "AHEA", to meet doctors, meet their elected democratic leadership, the Federation of Hospital Doctors who have been refusing to meet them for eight months. We learn, in fact, that there is thought in Larissa, with dozens of cases every day, of getting out of the COVID University Hospital and all the incidents going to the General Hospital. We warn you that the consequences will be disastrous and that is why the doctors and the General and the University Hospital are warning. What do doctors say, the sanitary doctors, who are on the front line of battle? They say: "Take measures now", what all the political parties tell you, all the trade unions, the clubs, the institutions, the Greek people, are telling you what the JRC tells you. Recruit now. Check the private sector now, so that both the coronary and the other needs for the health of the people can be addressed. These needs cannot be expected and the health system cannot be transformed - something that has already been done - into the health system of the one disease. A moment ago, between the talks, I was informed that IKA Tavrou was supposed to be stopped tomorrow morning and that all - and the doctors and the rest of the health staff - are being transported to the Keramikos. That's how they shrink public health structures. And, of course, the demands and the debate in here were not limited to the shielding of the public system. It was also about education and schools. They were both about means of transport and the need to dismantle. It was about workplaces - which most people do not talk about - where employers' arbitrariness is wrangling, from the concealment of coronary cases to the pressures on workers who have no reason to go to work, otherwise they have the threat of dismissal. So, Mr Mitsotakis, before you talk about the fun of young people, you should talk about the 'coron party' in the means of transport in the workplace. Before you talk about cases of individual irresponsibility, you do not question in here what they exist, you should talk about your own irresponsibility and the option not to take the necessary and unequivocal measures in time. Instead, what did you do? You attacked students, attacked teachers, ironed the request for more routes, for more buses, attacked all those who did not succumb to the irrationality of individual responsibility and chose to claim protection. Now attack everyone - and to us, particularly to the Communist Party - those who, while respecting all measures, want to honour once again the revolt of the Polytechnic. Before the House's step was taken down by the Prime Minister, the news of the public prosecutor's intervention in the announcement issued by the Association of Hospital Doctors of Thessaloniki, which you yourself say gives a heroic, titanic battle for this year's celebration of the Polytechnic University, which will also be symbolic of all protection measures, etc. And you know that very well. So that's where you arrived? And don't tell me you didn't send the D.A. and the D.A. took the initiative. Prosecutors listen to the government's political will, and at the same time they hear your various parrots calling for the prosecutor, abducing the world, the struggling doctors, that is, all those who self-sufficiently give the battle to save human lives and even without the necessary means and infrastructure, which is your sole responsibility to solve it. What exactly are you doing? Are you starting to sue industry, prosecutes to federations, labor unions, student clubs, doctors' clubs, which have already made announcements - and these are hundreds throughout the country, are we telling you, if you don't know - about celebration, about the course of the Polytechnics? As it turns out, your problem is the content of the celebration, which this year its anti-imperialist slogans are bound up with the demands and struggle of workers for measures to protect their health and their rights. Leave the instructions and the ring to the JRC for who keeps or does not keep the law, who keeps it and who does not keep it. The "Decision and order", by which various ministerial decisions come and implement and not in some cases real laws, is not even this spirit nor the letter of the law and you know it very well. And really, this is where we're talking about, what law we're talking about? This law imposed on you by the British-German company, this huge group, the multinational for tourism and travel, and implemented it in the tourism sector, with tragic results for the country? You said the same about all the mobilizations, all the claims. And for the Mayo, you were telling us the same things before it became the Daymare and then everyone - apart from you, of course - congratulated the FAME, congratulated the unions, the JRC and the JRC. Now, of course, you want to congratulate the American ambassador, and that is why you have obviously raised this issue very much today, without any sense or any basis at all, because the celebrations will also be carried out and all the measures provided for in the health protocols will be respected. The ban won't pass. You have found the opportunity to go through so many anti-labour, anti-grassroots measures, of course, which have been left by previous governments. And of course, you come here to put fake dilemmas, fake questions, if we say "yes" or "no" on the lockdown. It is clear that we are at war, as it is obvious that this war cannot be waged by the government, and it cannot be carried out by any government that sacrifices the health of the people on the altar of the 'objectives' - the word of the economy in introductory terms. That is why we, too, do not ask for either Ministers of mutual acceptance or quasi-equal treatment of national unity. SYRIZA or KINAL may ask for these, because it is obvious that it does not separate them from any gap or a long distance, anyway, from it, from your own policy. We sincerely tell you that we have no confidence in you. This war can be waged by the people, by health workers, by focusing on their needs, by those which all of you are sacrificing every day on the altar of a rotten system, which in 2020 - and now in 2021 - cannot even protect the elementary right to health, life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u132	And we thank Mr. Koutsuba. It is now Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, President of the Greek Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like - because I have a special weakness in sayings that I often call on - to invoke a saying by George Seferis: "It is easier for a camel to pass through a needle hole than a Greek politician to understand Greece and the Greeks." Dedicated on today's conversation. I didn't make any sense. I honestly didn't make any sense, and I think it's incomprehensible for politicians to argue with lame things, if you want, reports and the government to answer me with a lot of explaining. And I say that because sometime the bug will pass. That's for granted. How are we going to pick up the catastrophes that he's going to leave behind? And you know why we don't convince ourselves to be a Greek civilian? When we have a political dialogue on the dead and constantly invoking the dead, we have a matter - and I say it directly - to be at least consistent and serious to the Greek people. Terror is not the best counselor. And I am referring to what the Prime Minister has done, referring to twenty, thirty, fifty dead. You know, numbers sometimes are hideous because they refer to human lives. We need to be more careful. Listening to Mr Koutsouba, whom I always listen to, but he thinks that he should not listen to anyone other than himself, I should like to say to him: I understood one thing today from the parties of the Left, and also from the New Democracy that found a glorious glorious field to fight, namely on 17 November. Today, that's really what's left of it. If I put on a title I'd say: Coronovirus and November 17. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, In other words, we've taken out our entire political retreat on November 17, whether or not they're going to be marching or not. I'll say it in two words: Good night Greece! Is it possible for all of you to demand that the Greeks sit at home, but 17 November to make a move? Christ and Holy Mary! Is it possible to demand that the Greek citizen shut him down, why does he have a coronary, make him lockdown? Then ask all opposition parties no lockdown. Do it. You're not convinced, we're not convinced as a political system. The citizen will say: "Why are you forbidden me to go out, but when you have to deal with an ideology....?" An important day, I do not disagree, but you would be more persuasive, gentlemen of the Left, and I say this to Mr Varoufakis, if 28 October, Mr Varoufakis, you sent your mission to the Unknown Soldier. You have not sent a Member of your Parliament. I'd really believe you all on the Left. That's where you didn't send anyone. You did not protest when the churches were forbidden. But here, 17 November, you want to motivate - and I say it raw - political survival in the New Democracy, to escalate into a confrontation of no substance. Because the essence is that if there's a coronary, there should be no protest. It's over! If there's a lockdown, there's no protest. If there's no lockdown - do you believe it? - If there's no coronary - do you believe it? -, protest, massage. Just stuff. The logic must continue in a political and political mind. It is absurd that I hear, sincerely, it is absurd. And that's not ideological what I'm saying to you. It is really what I am pushing you to understand that the citizen will never be convinced of what we are telling him. And I say it with soul pain. I hear Mr. Koutsouba donate to the hospital doctors in Thessaloniki, who have had so much trouble, fight and applaud them, and we are with them, saying that the prosecutor has misinterpreted etc.But we had fifteen, twenty days ago arrests here opposite, Greeks. Seventeen people were arrested. He didn't protest there. Why? It was against the lockdown. I say that we must be equitable and equitable. This is not the way to make a policy. I apologise, but I am not that understanding, and I tell the Prime Minister, who is not here. The basis of medicine, friends and friends, is prevention. The government to prevent, gentlemen of the New Democracy, lost, failed. She's lost sorely, and I'll tell her why. Twenty days ago in Thessaloniki, the mayor and Mr. Chardalias gathered on the line to perform a test. Among these could have some coronary. Wasn't that where he was moving? Ura, thousands of people, you took them there to the beach to run a test. Wasn't that where the coronary was transported?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u134	They kept their distance, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u135	Let go, Admiral. I've seen the distances too. I was there. Let it go. That's not true. Honestly, that's not true. He said there's a test. I'm not saying there's no test. I repeat that this is not only a question of whether it is done, but how it is done. The way of Thessaloniki was wrong. It was not accidentally correct, nor did it actually draw conclusions. Mr. Tsipras, didn't you hear what the Prime Minister said? He said he has studies that buses don't fit the coronary. I want you to bring me the studies. This was heard in the Greek Parliament by the Greek Prime Minister? Did the Greek Prime Minister hear that there are studies? If there are studies then, and the coronary doesn't stick on the bus that we're on to each other like the sardines, it doesn't stick anywhere. At the actual event on 17 November and all parties go and say no - I don't understand - we don't go. The bus doesn't fit! I don't understand. I really expect him to bring me the studies. Because the lie is said by the Prime Minister, unfortunately - and I don't like to say it - or there's no coronary and it doesn't fit into buses! It's what I've said many times. Where the government wants it doesn't get stuck, where he doesn't want it. The polytechnic's stuck, the buses don't fit. On the 28th of October and at the churches it sticks, but on the buses it doesn't fit. I'm saying that because we can't be persuasive. Today, a few minutes ago, the German press, gentlemen of the New Democracy, "emptied you". Do you know what the German press says? I'll tell you now. I read it with surprise. ‘BILD’: ‘Possibly the Government resorted to tricks due to pandemic’. Article German newspaper which denounces the Greek Government for artifacts with reduced cases and incidents, by fraudulently, due to tourism. That must come out of the government and disprove it. Where's Mr. Petchas? Here's Mr. Pechas. You have to deny it this afternoon. The German press can't blame all of Greece by telling us liars, that you lied and, by extension, all of Greece. Who's saying that? The Germans! The German company 'TUI' does not pay our hotel owners today. Symptoms "TUI" began not to pay the hotel owners. It sends e-mails and says 'I'm not paying you'. This is where I honestly say that we need to be serious. Instead of today all parties send a letter to the "TUI" or to force the Minister or Prime Minister to "TUI" to pay, we are concerned about whether it will take place on 17 November or not. Mr. Varoufakis is fighting with the Prime Minister. "Sloppy" says one another. Not in the words. He says he said he said shit. To pay for 'TUI'. It's billions. They'll be closing hotel units. Seeing all this, the Greek people after seven hours cannot draw any conclusions. I will therefore say this because time is pressing. I have heard many suggestions from our own. The rest of them took them and made them theirs. That doesn't bother me. It is good for us, as well as for the Greek people who accept that our proposals were positive. It did not escape the attention, gentlemen of the New Democracy, that Portugal took 100 thousand computers. Mr. Tsipras said so, though, half. First of all, I said it myself. Do you know where he took them from? With funding from the European Union. He demanded money, took money and financed a hundred thousand computers. Where's the government? Where are your MEPs? Where's the government? So, the Portuguese are smarter than us? I'm saying this one more time. They took money from the European Union and gave a hundred thousand computers to the school children. I also have reservations about the lockdown after what I heard from the Prime Minister. I'm telling you that. If buses don't get stuck with the bug, I have reservations about the lockdown. I'm waiting for the studies. Let me make this clear to each other. Lockdown, where it was imposed, didn't go as well as you want to say. For example, Sweden did not lockdown. But he didn't have a government. He was responsible for a health committee. There's no government to give orders. It was open, ladies and gentlemen. The dead are much less than in France that had two lockdowns. I mean, it's not panacea the lockdown. You have to understand. Why? Because the results are awkward. Here I have the painting of cases and victims. I'll testify to him in the Minutes to understand it. I'll tell you why I'm being vigilant. I read 'Financial Times': Sweden: 'The most important criterion worldwide says scientists are deaths. Differences in information do not benefit, but panics.' I have all the article here that proves that in those countries where the lockdowns were made they had a higher mortality rate than Sweden and other non-lockdown countries. Here are the charts. Mr Varoufakis, I will repeat, with all due respect to all the leaders of the Left that you would be convinced if you had the same reaction on 25 March, the Easter, the Fifteen August, on 28 October, if, in other words, you reacted in the same way to Lockdown and the banning of demonstrations. There was no mention there. Today I see that you are giving food with your wrong choice to change the agenda for the Prime Minister and for the next ten or twelve days to deal only with it and all the pro-government means to deal with it alone: our false rivalry! I stress that. Because you wanted proposals I'm going fast - quickly. Focus. If I were a Prime Minister, I'd know the obvious. Unemployment in young people is 38%. They usually work on new kids in the cafeteria. Seven hundred thousand people are in the focus. What should you do as government to support the seven hundred thousand children so as not to go to unemployment? Listen, he's the second largest employer in our country. It has real numbers of about four hundred thousand workers. The seven hundred thousand have to do with the regional development of the focus. Do not cut off any catering shop that is not working now, by the Prime Minister's command. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] To reduce the rent, but not transfer it to the owner. This is criminal because you have the owner with the tenant fighting about whether the rental should go to 60% or 50%. To suspend each outlet, two hundred forty instalments for all businesses for all types of debt. I've said it a long time ago. These measures are appropriate for enterprises that opened up in 2020. You exclude these. Poor thing. Insurance contribution freeze. I, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, have no work to do. I have a catering shop, and I don't have a job. Why should I pay contributions? Freeze my contributions if I don't have a job. My shop doesn't work, guys. Why should I pay insurance contributions when my shop doesn't work and you shut it down? Lockdown, don't you want to? You made up your mind. You didn't ask SYRIZA, neither did the KIC. You've made up your mind. After deciding for yourself, then, you'll be compensated. In addition, there should be a exemption from municipal fees. What's simpler? Reduction of VAT to 6%. I told you about car charges. Do it, Prime Minister. You wanted suggestions. I tell you one - one of the proposals, because three hundred thousand places in the catering are at risk from Genoa being fired more than half of them, I tell you right now. I'm talking to people who have a focus. And that's where young people work mostly, young people. You have also made a very good speech, Prime Minister, and I must say that, in order not to blame you for heating. You've given a heating allowance. Yeah, but there's a lot of houses with electricity for heating. Give the subsidy there, too. It's not just oil or pelt. There are also the electricity and there are many houses that have electricity to warm up in winter. Let the government give. Also inhibition of auctions. I'm calling and requesting you until the coroner's breeze passes, don't let people out of his homes. Please very much. In Europe, the suspension applies in too many countries. So I said about the traffic charges. Prime Minister, you deprive the government - and I will say this again - of driving one's car for a few months. You are obliged, both from moral and legal, to remove 1/4 of the money from the traffic charges and from car insurance. You are obligated morally, Prime Minister. I'm telling you that. Do it! It's not bad. As long as you don't release your car and it's my fault, you won't pay traffic charges and insurance fees. What's simpler? Just do it. We were also pleased that the CEO of PFIZER is Greek from Thessaloniki. What would be the perception of political scenery and staff, you know? How these kids are gonna bring them back. How these Greeks will bring them back to produce the wealth they have done with this choice. And there are a lot of such kids. They left Greece six hundred thousand Greek birds in recent years. To return these children back, to find them a job because they are Greeks, our relatives, and our friends. This means that we must finally give solutions and suggestions. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You allow shooting, Prime Minister, you allow climbing, but you forbid hunting. So, on the mountain, in Paiko, where the other guy's chasing a coronary, while on the buses, and I want you to give me the studies, they don't fit a coronary? Allow sea skiing, rowing, swimming, but prohibit fishing. It's contradictory. Listen, Prime Minister, it's not your fault and I'll say it again. Pull a Minister's ear. This thing is laughing, Prime Minister. The hunter and the fisherman? Does the coronary fish stick to the man or the deer or the strand? I'm a philosopher and I don't like hunting anyway, I'm against it, but it's a process. I must also say, Prime Minister, that there are two and a half thousand amateur clubs, amateur sport is called, which have not taken one euro. Give the money to the people. You promised. Mr. Aggenakis has promised it for months now and he doesn't. Why? In conclusion, because it is too much time pressing, I would like to say that I personally did not hear any serious proposal from the Greek Parliament and I am sorry to say it. I will say this directly: we are asking for a government that received from the previous government, which received from the previous one, a bankrupt country. That's the reality. And SYRIZA is asking today and we're still asking if you want, and Mer25 and the JRC, things that can't be done if there's no wealth production. If there's no money, no money can be given. Understood! Of the 37 billion people who say, 20 can't touch them. Can we, Mr. Villardo? I want us to understand some things, because we tell the Prime Minister that he has 37 billion, but he doesn't have them in his pocket, it's not his. So I'm saying from now on - because the coronary will go away, go away, some time he'll go, I wish he'll leave tomorrow - that we need to change the economic model, we need to change the production line. Let me give you an example. Portugal has 12 and a half million tourists and 17 billion revenues. How much does Greece have, you know? Quality tourism, since you say it's a heavy industry tourism. There is a need to link our tourism with the production of basic consumer goods in tourist accommodation, to hotels with the primary sector in the fields and to the value of products. We need to make a plan seriously, we can't go that way. There is a combination of products for consumption and consumption and hotels. It's a high-tech industry. Prime Minister, Azerbaijan won Armenia because it had UAVs, which are assembled by the Turks, are various machines. In Greece for months the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki has created a stealth drone. As your Minister is delaying you, Mr. Gerapetritis - the Prime Minister if he wants to listen to me - let him be a little concerned with the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, let him deal with this stealth.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u136	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u137	We can have our own UAV that is the future. So Azerbaijan won the war with Armenia, with the stealth that the Turks gave them, UAV. So, since we have brains, let's help them a little. And I don't think the state will do it, but it needs public and private co-operation. It can be done, we might find PPP, there's goodwill. We told you about the bad bank, as in 1934 with the United States, you did not. Now you're going to make Piraeus Bank state to get the debts, i.e. the damage and re-do it private. Okay. I never expected a government that's liberal, like Mr. Mitsotakis, to stack a bank. I didn't really expect it. We are talking about a contradiction here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u139	I shall conclude, Mr President. In conclusion, I would like to say this because these news is serious. I must praise Mr. Giannakopoulos. I don't know the gentleman, ladies and gentlemen. I've never seen him in my life personally, I've never seen him. I must praise him for giving him money to develop the Polypowerful Regional Medicine in Kastelorizo. Good for him! So we must also find the Greeks who have money and convince them to help other regions and other islands to take primary care with their own money. There are. SYRIZA says we should check the private hospitals' ITHs. I say this to tell them to give money to take primary care on our islands. It's just things. To close, today, Mr President of the House, the Prime Minister is not here, and the board of directors of FRONTEX meets as a matter of urgency and accuses Greece of push back. Actually, FRONTEX takes Turkey's side. Inadmissible and unacceptable European countries to put our country on the stool, and it is not the case what they are saying, but it is also unacceptable and unfriendly what Europeans are doing. The worst of all, if you have not learned, is being sent back to us by our European friends. The European Union Commission asks for explanations from the Greek Prime Minister who has decided - and rightly decided - to take weapons because he says we prefer American F-16. That's where I have objections. The European Commission is asking the Greek Prime Minister to speak rather than go out of all the parties here and build up and support it in order to get weapons so that we can defend what comes from the Turks, friends from the Europeans, especially the Germans, because they can no longer sell arms to us, it seems, we are taking Americans, we would like to get their Germans, we are asked to apologise and pay money. Do you understand that? These are your European friends. I told you there are no friends, neither the Europeans are our friends nor the Russians nor the Americans. They're looking at their interest. I'm hanging up with Schefferis. I'm reading it to you, and I hope you understand that you're making mistakes. "It is easier for a camel to pass through a needle hole, alongside a Greek politician to understand Greece and the Greeks." That is what we have proved today, unfortunately, all of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u140	The seconds of the political leaders are closed with the denunciation of Mr Giannis Varoufakis, President of the MERA25 Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I raised seven specific questions. I'll remind you. Firstly, given the tragic situation in Thessaloniki, I asked whether the government is ready, instead of begging private health professionals, to order. It is a question which can be answered by a 'yes' or 'no'. I asked a second question. Are you going to pay for the extraordinary overtime that hasn't been paid to our hospital doctors for the last year and a half? Dispute that this is the case or tell me you'll pay them. Or tell me it's true and you won't pay them or when you'll pay them. That is a specific question. Third question, public mass test system. Will you fix it? You didn't. Will you do it? How much money will you give? Aren't you going to give? Tell us. It's a specific question, and it's not a question of confrontation, it's a question. Fourth question for small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly the focus it suffers - you are well aware - at the moment. Will you make them a haircut? ‘Cuts’, not tax suspensions, not insurance contributions suspensions, not bank loans, which they have to give in time with interest. Will you make them a haircut? Because the haircut will be done, it's certain. It's just legally sure it's going to happen. When they put a paddock and shut down, then they won't pay anything to anyone. The question is this. Will the ‘cut’, or will it allow them to operate next year, so that the public fund can get anything, get something from the bank, or will it cut them after death? That's the question. It's a question, but I don't hear any answers. I am going to the last question concerning the 'ERAKLI'. Once again, the Prime Minister did not answer, neither of you answered the government, but none of you answered it. Silence. Is it or is it not true that HARAKLIS has committed 12 billion to the SYRIZA credit card, Mr. Regling's credit card, to give it to the funds? It's true. You voted together here. We voted against it. You voted for that. It's 12 billion. They will take it if the 'ERAKLE' market is not going well. The HERAKEL market is not working well. You see, the bankers themselves say so, the cash themselves. Will you get an MDG to freeze this commitment of 12 billion public? Tell me I'm being stupid, but answer me. This silence is guilty, do you understand that? It's a specific question. Finally, I raised the issue of Piraeus Bank and was particularly fair to the Prime Minister. I said I don't indulge him for privatizing her, because she can't help it. There is a commitment to the Memorandum of Understanding from October 2015, which says that when these cocos are not repaid - and this is a decision of the European Central Bank - the Government will have to give them up, taking ten times the price above what their stock exchange value is. I think I am particularly fair to the government, but I put the question, when you then make a statement that you will secure the public interest. That means he won't lose the public. That's how I interpret it. Tell me how you interpret it. Do you really think the share price will rise ten times in the next year? And how can this be done without energizing the 12 billion-billion-dollar line for predators? These are specific questions, Prime Minister. You didn't hear them again. It's okay. I'm sure you've inspired them. And how did you respond? With 2015 and creative ambiguity. That's too bad! And last time you did it, because every time I ask you such specific questions, you put the ball in the 2015 stands. I told you the last time you didn't do it again. If you want, we'll have a conversation about 2015. I told you to do - since the summer of 2015 - to go to court, court, special court, a committee of inquiry, whatever you want. You didn't. Now I told you to hold a debate on the agenda at the level of political leaders for 2015. Do you want to talk about 2015? I will not fall into this trap, because I want an answer for the overtime payment of health care, hospital doctors and nurses. I need you to tell me specifically about mass tests. I need you to tell me about the order, right now that Thessaloniki is in red. Are you gonna do it or aren't you gonna do it? Don't tell me again about 2015. I'm here. In fact, I remember once when you were the leader of the opposition, that you wanted to drag me into a special court. I told you I was coming to the New Democracy offices to interrogate me there. You didn't. You didn't dare. The cowardice enters the service of silence of the questions I ask you. Answer me, please. Tell me these questions don't work for alpha, step by step, fuck a speech. Say it, though. Prime Minister, did you talk to me about a vocabulary? I wish you had the courtesy of Mera25, all of our MPs, you of the New Democracy. Tell me which word I used that reminded you. I've never used aggressive determination in my life against any opponent, despite all that you've been dragging me. I wish you had...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u142	Right-wing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u143	Top right is not a curse. It's like saying the JRC is communists. Someone who's far-right is far-right. And I am always talking about policies, ladies and gentlemen. I always talk about politics. Stupid policies all have the ability to implement both you and us. I don't think that voucher policy of teacher education was a smart policy. You admitted it. You called Mr Tsipras a "failed former Prime Minister". You did this. Look, my disagreements and my conflicts with Mr. Tsipras are well known. He and his former SYRIZA colleagues know them very well. Be careful, because I wish, after applying the fifth memorandum, which you have already started implementing, when you lose elections, you also get 32% in elections. You have had some time to take a parliamentary lesson, telling me that'responsible disobedience' has a role to play in a dictatorial regime, but not in parliament. Didn't you say? Prime Minister, dictatorships do not usually come as they arrived on 21 April 1967 in a night with tanks. Especially nowadays, dictatorships are gradually coming a little - a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u144	What exactly does the poet mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u145	What does the poet mean? Do you want to see how Hungary's democracy collapsed and fell into Orban's hands through parliamentary cloak and parliamentary procedures? Do you want to see how little - he did a parliamentary coup? [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] You want to see in Poland, which is right now...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u146	At this stage we're...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u147	Mr. President, please. You have a role to play, I think. Would you please protect me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u148	I'll protect you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u149	Do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u150	Please, no vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u151	If you want to have such a English parliament debate, we should. But first of all, we must change the architecture of the House and, secondly, the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u152	It would not be in the English parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u153	While it would be you, Mr. Mitsotakis. Amazing!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u154	As a small party, I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u155	Don't be so sure. My partner and friend Caroline Lucas is a member of Brighton. The Greens have a parliament and it is her. Don't talk about things you don't know that well. Now let me tell you that I think this is something that should not be a matter of confrontation between us. What? Protection of parliamentaryism. We must all be prepared to oppose a gradual erosion of parliamentaryism by means of a 'negative insanity'. I'll tell you something very specific. The Prime Minister invited us on November 17th to attend a wreath test. It would be more consistent to say that. We're not going to the wreath deposit. It's very limited space. We're going to go nine people. The seven MPs of the Attica basin, the party coordinator and the secretariat representative. We'll be on the outside, we'll be on the road, in the middle, two feet from each other. We ask - and please record it - that our members do not come in so that it does not become crowded. In other words, as Mrs Gennamas said,'short and measured'. Nine people, symbolically, will make our way to the Polytechnic. What did you say? In fact, you said, the state is me or essentially, I will order Mr Chrysochide to order the MATs to strike us. Beat us, we seven MPs, the coordinator of the party and the youth representative, in the middle of the road. At the time you're causing us to come to a more limited space to testify a wreath that we won't do. This is the 'acquisite insanity' which is the process in which democracy is being broken and democracy is eroded! Do it! Hit us! That's actually what you announced. That's your politeness, Mr. Mitsotakis. Well, Mr. Mitsotakis, I have news for you. You're not the state. Representative for an alliance of the extreme right and parasitic oligarchy you are. That's what you are! I put specific questions. You didn't have the courage to answer them. I repeat it in my dentistry. You will not answer them again, because you do not want to answer them. By 2015, you announce to us that you will hit the anniversary of November 17. That's how you reveal it. Amid pandemic you choose polarization. Because that is the non-response and the clarification of the answers to the questions I have put to you, the choice of polarisation because you have lost control. Otherwise, you don't raise the tons, do you? All the media are talking about hitting on the anniversary of November 17th. You don't raise the tons! Prime Minister, unfortunately for our society you are not asking for the support of parties, hospital doctors and nurses, students and teachers. You're asking for their submission, our submission. Hey, we're gonna disappoint you. We don't submit. We wanted to support you. We really wanted to support you today. It's a shame. We can't support you. We cannot support policies that leave public health to the mercy of luck and hand over the weak at the same time as the bankrupts, with what you are doing with HARAKLIs - all that you are not talking about today - in predators, at the same time as leaving pandemic to the mercy of the fate of clericals and private diagnostic centers, while undermining the Constitution, political freedoms, what has been left of our democracy in this obedience "Greece".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u156	We thank Mr Varoufakis for his speech and for her briefness. You will allow me, Prime Minister, before I give you the floor for your teratology, which closes today's session, to mention - and to close - the issue of the famous - and it is a famous - PTH of the House, which we have all voted together, whether it works or not. I took one, indeed, ruthless attack by Mr. Polakis. In fact, he told me that I'm lying unregulatedly while in our time it's an achievement to speak unregulated truths. Truth is the difficulty in our time, not the lies. We lie easily, and we don't blush when we talk about it. Truth is, then, the problem. I got a letter - so we're being watched - by the commander of the Salvation Hospital, which says: "To the President of Parliament. Subject: 'Relation to statements by Mr Polakis'. Regarding statements by MP Mr Polakis, we are aware that the operational ITH beds available to the Salvation Hospital are as follows: Twelve beds of University Pneumonology, where eleven patients are treated. Eight beds of the Respiratory Insufficiency Center, where seven patients are treated. Nine MAF beds - Increased Freudium Units - Respiratory Insufficiency Center, where seven patients are treated. Fifty beds of the Multivalent ICU, where fifteen patients are treated. Total operating beds of seventy-nine and added within the year, 2020, additional five beds at the ITH University Pneumonology. Yours sincerely.’ Here, and someone who appreciates me! I would like to point out that it refers to what is happening at the moment. I give the relevant letter for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of Parliament, Mr Constantine Tsoulas, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The Prime Minister now has the floor, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, for his tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, we have had an eloquently close seven hours of discussion on the most important issue, which concerns topicality, and I think it will concern us for some time yet. I would like to finish my position with a more optimistic, positive approach to things. Through the debate and despite the individual tensions, which inevitably accompany parliamentary dialogue, interesting things have been heard that have to be assessed by the government. I would like to point out one: First, what is going on in Thessaloniki? The question posed by all the parties to the opposition is reasonable, since that is where we are currently facing the biggest pressure problem with regard to the national health system. I would first like to reply to Mrs Gennimata, who smuggled me because I was allegedly not listening to what she said, but at the same time accused me of not making any self-criticism, that especially on the issue of Thessaloniki, I believe that if we were all turning the clock back, we should have taken drastic measures earlier. I'm saying it very clearly. The responsibility burdens everyone, first of all the government, but I think also the local rulers, and possibly all those who sought to celebrate, even as the celebration of Saint Demetrius was finally celebrated. The truth is that in Thessaloniki the speed of increased cases gave us the opportunity to say that yes, we fell out in our assessment, which, in other words, you mentioned several times that Mr. Georgiadis allegedly said. We fell out in appreciation in Thessaloniki, not in tourism, but in how quickly the incidents increased. That's the truth. I have no difficulty hiding it. They fell out, not just us, but all the experts, all the epidemiologists. Retrospectively, obviously, and we should have intervened earlier. But because time is not coming back, at the moment I want to assure all our fellow citizens that what is possible is being done, using all possibilities, not only of the National Health System but also of the private sector. Mr. Tsipras was mentioned in the Dia-Balkan. He's already in the papers. That's right, that's right. Obviously there must be no bed, which is empty and which can be exploited either as COVID or as non-COVID, to release other beds as COVID, which cannot be exploited. I can assure you that this is done and will continue to be done in Thessaloniki until we reach the point where the incidents reach a set and then begin to fall. There has been a great debate on the question of qualification. Look at you see, I think you should also acknowledge that if we had proceeded with a set of private-sector beds, when you asked for them, in March and April, we would have spent unnecessarily money, because we never needed these private-sector beds. That means an order, I pay, and I have at my disposal at the time, but I pay every day it passes. We have chosen a different model where we can use private-sector beds whenever necessary. And that is what we have done, in cooperation with the private sector and not confrontation. The final result of what is and what should it be? Using private-sector beds when it really is necessary. Yeah, now it's really necessary to use them. And if it is necessary to do it in other cities - I hope we don't need it - we will do it in other cities too. However, if we had followed the prescription in March and April, we would have spent the Greek taxpayer's money, not even needing one of these intensive beds, which we would have ordered. In order to suspend auctions correctly, I think that Mr Velopoulos has made it. Of course, there will be a suspension of auctions with the relevant regulation, which the Ministry of Justice will bring. It's self-evident and correct. Indicate, record and be done. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] On the issue of education, Mr Tsipras is not wrong when he says that there are households who today cannot access the technological infrastructure to support telecommunications, especially if there is more than one child or if there is a parent working. It is not a misguided point of view, it is right in what it says. At the same time, however, we are right when we launch laptop and computer laptop programmes, respectively what you referred to in Portugal. The same programmes are being implemented in Greece. More than forty thousand tablets and laptops have been released in schools so far. Planning is to reach nearly ninety thousand in February 2021. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I will ask the Ministry of Education, if possible, to step up this programme. We must not get to the point where there is a child who asks for access, must have access to telecommunications and for technical reasons he cannot have it. Because there, indeed, inequality arises, which I think cannot be accepted by any of us. Tests and mass tests: it is not possible at this time to be able, before we reopen schools - and I do not believe that it would necessarily be useful and useful - to pass on all our tests to a massive test of the whole school population. What we can do, however, - and we will do - is to do the next week smarter tests aimed at high school and high school students, so that we can see whether there is any virus in these ages that will not allow us to open schools whenever we are planning, namely at the end of November. This is something that will be launched. We've got algorithmic models so we can run smart these sample tests. It will give us a very useful tip on whether we have or do not have the opportunity to open the schools, as we look forward to and as we hope at the end of the month, or whether we should extend tele-instruction from home for a few more weeks. We must, however, take this decision on the basis of specific scientific data. I repeat to the National Representation that we were the first country to gain access to reliable rapid test, that these rapid tests have been exploited, especially in structures that we need to get quick results, structures of great sensitivity, such as the nursing homes, where regular weekly tests are carried out to all employees. However, I would like to make it clear that the test itself is not a safety indicator for the one who is tested negative on that day. Many times he also creates a sense of false complacentness: "I'm negative, so I can be a little more relaxed." And the next day you'll be positive, and if you're working at the nursing home, you'll get into the nursing home and you'll catch up with our fellow citizens whose lives are at risk of a dispersal. So the question is obviously also about the administrations of the nursing homes, obviously also about the control mechanisms, above all the regions, which are responsible for controlling the homes. However, it concerns workers themselves, especially in areas of very high sensitivity, such as homes. I am closing with Mr Tsipras' proposal to provide financial support for the weakest households. There will be financial support for the weakest households on Christmas. How much money we will give, where we will give it and how we will give it, however, is something that will be specific to the financial staff. However, since the cash possibility is obviously in place and we recognise that there are households who, for whatever reason, may have left outside the protection framework that we have established or needing special support, the government will stand - as it has done so far - with tangible support from our citizens who are most in need. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I say this because it is important that we should be able to close this debate today, after we spent many hours on our disagreement, at least concluding where we can agree. Finally, I would like to ask all parties to point out a specific interlocutor from the Ministry of Health, especially the Committee on Vaccines, on how we will proceed to the vaccination strategy for the population, once we have the vaccine or vaccines available. Especially the first vaccine of PFIZER, which has shown so encouraging results in the first tests, is a vaccine which, to be disposed of, needs a sufficiently complicated distribution chain, as until it reaches the end of the recipient must be moved to very low temperatures. -70 degrees, actually. But we are completely open to hear ideas and suggestions from the parties. I would really like this mission of national COVID vaccination to be a priority that all the parties of the National Representation will embrace. My reference to the issue of influenza was the 'closing of the eye' which was made - I shall not give up political responsibilities - in the anti-invasive movement. Remember how many difficulties we had to convince fellow citizens that they should be vaccinated for influenza. It should not be done the same as the vaccine of COVID -19. I will also ask for this: obviously criticism is made, citizens are listening, they are judging. Everyone has the right to his opinion. I will, however, ask all the political leaders, of all the Members who make a public speech, to repeat the key message in these days 'Restrict unnecessary movements'. Movements must be absolutely necessary and, above all, there must be no confusion between people who are not together in the same house, i.e. calls, visits, using the alibi of a move. This should not be accepted. I have also asked the Labour Inspectorate - I do not remember what political leader has made the point - to have increased checks at the workplace and for the mask, which is absolutely essential, but also for the implementation of telework where this is possible. Workplaces in both the private sector and our public sector have a number of questions. It's been some kind of overtransmission. It is very important that employers and workers should also know that the state, through its control mechanisms, will implement this aspect of legislation, because this is how they are protected first and foremost by workers themselves. I want to close on this difficult day, in this difficult week as a whole for the country again with a tone of optimism. The vaccine will come. And when the vaccine comes and we'll be able to be vaccinated enough, I think we'll leave behind this adventure. But to do this, we'll have to last a few more months. To those who accused us and told us that we should not go to a strategy - accordion - we are closing down, I would ask them to table an alternative proposal, if necessary, until we reach the vaccine. Because what cannot be done under any circumstances, when we are reopening, is that we all have the same reaction - look out, I do not exclude the government - as the one we have had since the success of the first wave. I won't get tired of saying it. Of course, there was reassurance by everyone, perhaps by the government, because there was physical relief or perhaps the conviction that we were done with this adventure. That's the truth, we have no reason to hide it. We mustn't make the same mistake again. And we must not make the same mistake again, especially in the face of Christmas, in the hope that it will somehow be possible for the market to function and possibly be with our loved ones. We may only have to meet with our loved ones, or spend different Christmas alone with our families. Because if we reopen and come back to the beginning of January in the same situation that we are now in, we will actually have a hole in the water. It is something that I think no one wants. I'm closing up with this. I remembered - because sometimes it is good to be inspired by art and by music especially - a nice lyric. It's not Seferis's. I'm gonna go a little further. It's Leonard Cohen, from "Anthem": "There's a crack, a crack in everything. That's how the light comes in." So the light will enter and we'll win this battle. As long as we are all united, all united, with responsibility and solidarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate has been concluded in accordance with the special agenda: "Summary, at the request of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in accordance with Rule 142A of the Rules of Procedure, on the subject of informing the House of the government's policy on the treatment of pandemic". It was the longest similar meeting ever. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S1-commons.u159	With the consent of the House at 18.05 p.m. the sitting is closed for today, Thursday, 12 November 2020 at 18.15 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, according to the supplementary agenda distributed.
