ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Friday 11 September 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 1009/7-9-2020, the question of "The inertia of the government perpetuates the inequalities between the insured and the retired even against the risk of death". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 1010/7-9-2020 of the Member of the Ilias Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Emergent need for the administration of the Department of Music at the Tower". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 4783/230/9-3-2020 was asked and application for the submission of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Management and exploitation of the real estate of the former PIKPA (PF)". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Discussion and vote uniformly on the principle, articles and all draft laws of the Ministry of Civil Protection: (a) 'Repeal of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Israel on cooperation in the fight against crime and on matters of public security'; (b) ‘Definition of the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation by the Ministry of Public Order of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Interior of the Russian Federation in combating crime of 6 December 2001;’ (c) ‘Decision of an Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on joint control at the Nymfaia-Mkaza border corridor, concluded by an exchange of financial communications (Athens, November 6, 2013 and Sofia, 17 July 2014, respectively)’. The bills were passed by a majority vote in the Standing Committee and are introduced for discussion under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to their ratification, and the Minister responsible for five minutes. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. First, I should like to give the floor to the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Nikolaos Papanastasis for five minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I would just like to speak on a point of order. We would like, please, to take the floor for a very short time and we agree with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u4	You mean to say you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u5	Yeah, but we'd like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u6	All right, let me tell you, if we respect Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, normally - and it has not been said - that the Conference of Presidents has not recommended the opposite - only those who object, the parties that have. And in the first, as far as I can see, it has the Communist Party of Greece and the second. Whoever objects will speak. But, if you agree, Mr. Kamine,...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u7	That is good, Mr President, but it is customary that there should be a tolerance of three, four minutes, if requested, for those who agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, I too would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u9	Anyone who wants to speak for a minute on a point of order. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has the floor. Here, Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u10	We always respect the dialogue procedure within the Chamber - there is no doubt about this - and in particular your person, who always do your job and your presence here is positive for both Parliament and society. However, because the programme today - I think - is confirmed in plenary because we have a lot of things to do and we are doing - as you know - and the meetings of committees within the House and at 14.00 hours must come for the committee, I think that if we go to other issues of topicality which are of concern to all of us and are tormented, the debate will be opened very much. And yes, you may raise a matter with decency for a few minutes, but the debate may open and I think it may not be the best principle for today. The Communist Party will obviously also speak against the committee, but we have time both within the House and outside the House to discuss all these matters creatively. I think we'll get away if we get into this conversation. So, Mr President, it is better to stay in the letter of the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u14	Can Mr. Gregoriadis speak? Yes, Mr Pafile, you will all speak on a point of order for a minute. Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u15	I just have to say that I agree with the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Of course the colleague of the Change Movement has shown himself to be modest and that he is very serious, but today is a special day, where we also have the votes on waivers of immunity, and we have many committees, and the programme is likely to be derailed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u16	What you are saying is correct, because we do indeed have waivers of immunity, and at 12 a.m. must have finished everything because we have other committees. Unfortunately there is this problem with the coronary, and we are all a little tolerant of the procedure, as has mainly been agreed. Now, of course, as far as the issue of avoiding talking about topical issues is concerned, as Mr Lebanese said, first of all it is right, but we will see what we will do if colleagues want to say for a moment why they agree. Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u17	Because the Conference of Presidents also includes colleagues - Mr Kamine does not participate, but is a representative of KINAL - they know there has been a debate. Indeed, the debate took place with some honesty, that is, there were parties - we were not on this side - who had a reservation that we would be placed in plenary and agreed. And we said that this must be resolved - and I am talking about those who disagree with the agreements - and that if everyone agrees in advance at the Conference of Presidents, then there can be a general debate. So we are staying in what we have agreed. There can be no general debate. We should have agreed on all parties and move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u18	Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, we did agree at the Conference of Presidents that the specific rule laid down in Rule 108 will be followed. However, I think they would have spoken as rapporteurs so long as we consumed the process. The rapporteurs could, as has happened in previous such meetings, speak of one, two minutes, even if they agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u20	Good, Mr. Villardo. Either way, and you're indebted, so you're gonna talk. It's not a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u22	Here, Mr Kamine, you have the floor for a minute because time is pushing us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, I would just like to say that when we insist with such scepticism on the Rules of Procedure, it is like extinguishing those who agree with the bill in fact disagree so that they can speak in plenary and explain their vote. It is not possible at this moment to sit down and talk about the two minutes we have asked to talk about when there is tolerance in this Chamber. And I'm sorry, but I'm surprised, because this is the first time...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u24	All right, Mr. Kamine. Since you will be confined to telling the reasons why you agree, you will be given the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u26	Before I give the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, the Rules of Procedure will either be observed or we will all be speaking. We agree to change that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u28	All right, Mr. Paphie, let it go. He'll just say about the deals.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u29	In any case, the House decides.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u30	Before giving the floor to Mr Papastasis, please, Mr Minister, please give us a brief statement in two minutes on sanctions, and then I will give Mr Papastasis the floor, which is also the opposite. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my intervention in today's plenary session of the Greek Parliament in voting for the three draft laws under discussion could not begin without mentioning yesterday's tragic accident at Saint Cosmas, which cost life to a police officer of the DIA Group, the wife and father of a six-year-old child, as well as the injury of the colleague and passenger to the motorcycle, who gives his own crucial fight for life. I would like to express my sincere condolences, like all the government, to the family of the wronged police officer and wish from deep heart and courage to the family and the injured police officer themselves, so that he will soon be back close to his and his colleagues. Yesterday's tragic accident, which immersed all of us in the grief, highlights the dangers faced daily by Greek police women and men, attempting at all corners of our country, with the sole aim of responding promptly and effectively to any incident that endangers the lives and property of citizens. That's exactly how both of the officers of the DIA group did yesterday, responding to a call for a direct intervention due to a fire outbreak. The sense of duty they have shown and their offering are a source of power for all of us. The responsibility of the state and all of us is to stand by the two families that are tested and that is what we are doing. Towards the end, I'll be placed for the contracts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest that there should be a debate at the same time on all three conventions and that the contributors speak. As far as the first convention is concerned, I see that the Greek Solution has been voted on. I shall therefore give the floor to Mr Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u33	Why, Mr President, will you give Mr Mylonakis the floor? We're ahead of each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u34	Two are the ways. Either we go in the order of power of the parties or we go in the order of disagreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u35	One place we'll do for all three.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u36	If you speak uniformly for all three, we agree. Do the other Members agree to speak uniformly for all three? As far as I can see, this House agrees. So we're going uniform for all three contracts, which will make it easier for the process to get done faster. Therefore, Mr Papastasis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are called upon to give our opinion on three agreements with counterparties from both Greece and Russia, Israel and Bulgaria respectively. The first two generally concern the fight against organised crime, while the third concerns cross-border arrangements. As far as the first two agreements are concerned, organised crime is not a new phenomenon. Their causes are social, and today there are all the conditions to strengthen. This is because the main prerequisite for these phenomena is the growing anti-grassroots policy, the ideological and temporary domination of capitalism. Legally, crime will multiply as much as poverty strengthens, as impoverishment surrounds as they fly on the road to unemployment and the margin of thousands of people and finally as the dreams of thousands of young people are crushed in the world of drugs. It is well known that the Communist Party of Greece has proposed and supported measures against organised crime, measures aimed at protecting human life, measures that hamper trafficking in human beings and human organs, the exploitation of prostitution. The Communist Party of Greece has been placed against drugs, the manufacture and trafficking of drugs, has condemned the exploitation of refugees and immigrants, proving that all these manifestations of organised crime are profitable business activities, which is not new. These are activities covered by the involvement of States, governments and security services. There is now a whole series of revelations that prove these involvements. In short, they are areas of profitability that are of great interest but remain unavoidable. The attack on every acquis right of workers, the constant confrontation of political and economic sovereignty, the incitement of local wars to control zones of influence are the main conditions and elements of the legitimate crime of capital, but also the elements that produce and reproduce ordinary crime. As long as this policy continues, however long as the conditions for its overthrow are not created, cases will increase as much as agreements are signed. The government's responsibilities are enormous. While he knows the conditions for developing crime, the extent and the elements that make it up, the ways and conditions of dealing with it, what does he do? At the time it calls'sheep', it continues not to direct the Security Corps to prosecute crime, it continues to entrust them with more important tasks than it seems. While it has most police officers, it also creates new police, private, municipal, border, that is to say, it is also trying to invest in the problems that its own policy creates to promote other purposes. It is misleading and provocative that the government should present to the people as the main causes of cross-border crime and trafficking in people and drugs the important geopolitical changes in the region of Eastern Europe and the Balkan Peninsula, as expressed in the trunk of the agreement. It is misleading, because the geopolitical upheavals, which the government is accusing as a cause of the rapid increase in crime in Eastern Europe and the Balkans, are abundant elements of the interventions of the most closest allies to date by all Greek governments, namely the United States, NATO, the European Union. It is also challenging, because in these imperialist interventions, both directly or indirectly, the Greek governments, the PASOK - KINAL governments, SYRIZA and, of course, the New Democracy. But today, uneasy, instead of all of you apologizing for violence, killing, uprooting, yes, crime, that came from these violent, bloody border changes, what are you doing? You act like all of this came from a virginity. You are taking advantage of these interventions to pass other anti-grassroots measures, your own projects. You also stand with other states, common sense, to face up to crime - it says. You are currently bringing two conventions to combat organised crime and terrorism. Except that these conventions do not only address the problem, but much more cover it up and contain very dangerous provisions. There is provision in them for dealing with extremist and terrorist organisations, as you say, indicating that you have already actually agreed with the counterparty state, Russia or Israel, in that they are terrorism or terrorists. Otherwise there would be no point in ratifying any agreement between you to deal with it. For example, the agreement with Israel is a text whose predictions are unequivocally moving towards the promoted upgrading of political, economic and military relations with the criminal machine of that state. But this is the state that imprisons thousands of fighters, bombs other countries, tramples a brutal crowd of international treaties. It is the state that is reluctantly murdered even young children and elderly people, who are baptising terrorists against the occupation, who are struggling to have a home. Are these your terrorists? And yet, this state with its horrors, both the New Democracy Government and the SYRIZA Government, yesterday and today, are spectacularly supporting it, shaping through this support for the agreement that you are bringing us today. In the respective agreement with Russia, there is provision for cooperation between the Greek and Russian authorities to ensure public order and security. In other words, the Greek Government, associated with the Russian State and the special services, will intervene whenever they judge on matters of public order and security. That's a creepy perspective. The Communist Party of Greece does not have deceit. Clearly, we say that the reason it gives rise to and reproduces the causes of crime is capitalism. That is why the workers are responsible for this is collective action to overthrow this socio-economic formation and to establish communism. With regard to the agreement with Bulgaria on common control on the Nymfaia-Mkaza border, it is our position that it is, among other things, intended to prepare the ground for full membership of Bulgaria in the Schengen area, which we disagree with and for which we have repeatedly expressed our objections. We do not underestimate the need for cooperation between countries on cross-border control to deal with organised crime. However, we consider that especially in the current circumstances, in the context of the current European Union, and this cooperation is subordinate to what we call 'anti-terrorist', 'anti-immigrant' doctrines of the European Union, which have in the past been used for preventive wars, to strike popular movements. After that, we are voting against the principle of both Articles and the three agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Papastasis. Please now Mr. Antonis Mylonakis from the Greek Solution take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, first of all as a Greek Solution, but also myself, we express our condolences to the unfair loss of a young child, a police officer who fell yesterday on the altar of duty and wish for rapid recovery, Minister, and to the other police officer, who is also in a very difficult situation from what we are learning. I learned it at the time I was going with the party MP, Mrs Alexopoulou, on the fire in Anavyssos, and there was really such a move and so great on some points, but the police did show that she was present yesterday. But now we have the accident, an unbelievable accident, and I hope that the evil will stop here, that we do not have any other accidents, because we lose people who fall on the altar of duty. Ladies and gentlemen, for the two of the three bills today, the sanctions for the two agreements on national security and crime, with the State of Israel and Russia, we had taken a stand at the outset and said that we were positive. And you know what? Today, after yesterday's events, we all had to say that such agreements, with developed countries, and above all with regard to information, are what we really want. What are these agreements? These agreements are for organised crime, human trafficking, illegal immigration, electronic crime, terrorism and financing, emergency management, fire service, etc. So the fires yesterday - and I ask, Mr. Pafile, really the Communist Party about the fires yesterday - that I spoke to the Chief of Fire, who was there, in Anavyssus, didn't tell you anything? The fire in Moria isn't telling you anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u40	And you're addressing us? Get to the governments!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u41	No, not in general. Doesn't he, in general, say anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u42	Leave the tricks! Don't talk to us!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u43	Yes, because Mr Papapastasis said, "Why these ideas..."... I want to talk about ideoscopy. Why? Shouldn't we be informed, have a good information network?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u44	Do you have a good network?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u45	But our country doesn't. Mr. Economou, what part does State security play? What role has he played so far?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u46	Please limit yourself to agreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u47	I ask you: is there state security, is there a National Intelligence Agency? About the fire in Moria yesterday, who set her on fire? Where did the people who left there and disappeared in the mountains and we're looking for them now? Didn't we have any information after all? On May 5, there was again the same thing that had come out then that MIT with the Afghans in Moria were ready to burn Moria again, which had entered the first fire? We don't know anything? What do we do? So the information on national security is alpha and omega. We get the information, we analyze it. A few days ago the President of the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos, had referred from this Step - and had not said so by accident, ladies and gentlemen - and had tabled a relevant proposal from the Greek Solution, where and how we should manage illegal immigrants, illegal immigrants and refugees. As we wish to be able to tell them, this is no longer a matter of how we tell everyone. They should be out of there already. The islands should have been empty, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Mylonakis, please confine yourself to sanctions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u49	These are on the bill. It's a matter of information, Mr. President. If he doesn't have information, where are you going? And let me tell you something else. Yesterday Mr. Bachtelli hit two of our islands, showed them on the map. He talked about our Samos and our Chios. Do you think it's random? Let's see, the State Security and the National Intelligence Service have information about the next few days, do we have something over there? And yesterday how did Mr. Concollon go with the Chief of HNDGS to a meeting in Maximos? So there must have been something. So if we had the information on the good news, if we had analysed it, and if we had strongly entered the spirit of the transmission of information, then we would have no problem and had prevented the crime. I now come to the agreement with Bulgaria. We said yesterday 'the present'. Look, it is a ratification of an agreement between the Greek Government and Bulgaria on common control at the Nymphaia-Mkaza border passage, which was concluded by exchanging private communications in November 2013 in Sofia and July 2014 in Athens. It is based on Law 3780/2009. We think it is an act that needs to be done. The financial communications relate to the joint control over the Nymfaia border corridor - Macaza, where the two ministries promise to build the customs, as the modern road network between Komotini - Alexandroupolis and Haskovo - Kirtzali was completed. This is a project that, according to the General Accounting Office of the State, will be charged with the state budget of around EUR 95 000. Before we agree or not, I would like to see that there are already four border routes between Greece and Bulgaria: Iliden - Extreme, Svilengrad - Ormene, Zlatograd - Thermes N. Xanthi and Koulata - Promahona. Thus, the new fifth vertical axis, which does not yet have a customs office, Komotini - Nymfaia - Makaza will be the fifth common crossing point across the borders of Bulgaria - Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u50	There are no customs offices between the countries - members of the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u51	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u52	Undoubtedly building another border station between Greece and Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u53	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u54	I don't understand what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u55	He doesn't know that they're coming from Russia. He doesn't know the basics.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Mylonakis, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u57	No doubt, ladies and gentlemen, the construction of another border station between Greece and Bulgaria will help to develop trade and reduce the time required for the transport of products. It will also help to increase visitors - travellers on either side, it may also generate more revenue for the state and increase the number of holidaymakers in the summer months. I would like to say, however, that there are also negative ones. This is why Bulgaria is "burned" more. Why is Bulgaria burning? To get into the Schengen area. I won't say that the Greek solution is against it, it's for it. But I must say - and we must say this - what some local players have said, such as the President of the Chamber of Commerce - Rhodope, Mr Aggelides, who said the other day: 'Fear exists and we have formulated it for a year, we have mobilised the authorities, many times even by radical action, since we have arrived to take over the St. Konstantinos peninsula in Xanthi. The issue of blockage and smuggling from Bulgaria is a terrible wound." Also, the President of the Komotini Trade Association said that in Xanthi only boasts the hindrance, as incomplete border controls are smuggled into thousands of products from Bulgaria, as smuggling moves uncontrollably in this region. So we are in favour of this agreement and must say that in all the issues that the Greek Solution agrees to know that what we are interested in is not what Bulgarians will say, what Romanians will say, what Serbia will say. We are primarily interested in what Greeks will say and what is of interest to Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, I would like the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u60	To finish with the circle of the other speakers, and I will give the floor for a minute to Mr Pafilis for a supplement that he wants to do and then Mr Velopoulos will take the floor. Mrs Bakadima has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin, I should like to extend our sincere condolences to those of the unfortunate three-year-old police officer who died yesterday in a tragic car accident and our wishes to recover and win the battle for the police officer, who is being hospitalized in serious situations. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the procedure that we have taken codecision, you will allow me to make just a very brief comment on Moria. We think it was something to be expected. The incarceration of nearly thirteen thousand people in a space that barely fits two to two and a half thousand, would lead to tragedy. We also believe that these images demonstrate the failure of the whole of Europe, its failure to manage such a serious humanitarian crisis, such as the refugee crisis. They are images that should grieve us if nothing else as European citizens. Let us now move on to the convention, which we are voting against. It is the one between our country and Israel. Its aim is to work together between the two countries to combat crime in public security. Let's get something straight. The problem for us is not the nature of the agreement or its kind. It is the fact that it has been concluded between our country and the State of Israel under the current criminal, colonial, settlement leadership, which bears heavy burdens of crime. It is also an agreement which cannot under any circumstances be considered separately from its historical framework, as it comes as a crown of the increased cooperation between our country and Israel, which at present constitutes a criminal extreme right-wing regime, led by Netanyahu and heinous crimes in the West Bank. This cooperation is not just politically and morally problematic and incomprehensible, not only is it alienating us from our traditional allies, peoples and states, with which we could maintain the good relationship and cooperation we have had, but also afflicts the Israeli democrats themselves, who resist words and actions in the current criminal regime in which their state has prevailed. So, instead of strengthening our position in the region, our country's bonding to the chariot of Israel has turned us into a third wheel, a country - despite a wider geostrategic framework and wider geostrategic balances. And I will close - to be consistent with my time - by saying that I am frankly impressed by the attitude of some colleagues. Of course we are all judged by the citizens and by history. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of KINAAL, do you not consider it problematic that following the relations of the late Andreas Papandreou with Yasser Arafat and after the placement of George Papandreou at the Fatah conference in Bethlehem in 2009, in the presence of Mahmoud Abbas, that PASOK was, is and will be with the Palestinian people, today, supporting an agreement that strengthens Israel? And, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, do you not think that anything else ironic, two months ago, at the end of June, after a meeting of the Palestinian Ambassador with your delegation and a statement on your part - Mr Skourlet - that your party's position remains inextricable for a just solution to the Palestinian question, today to vote for an agreement that intensifies our country's relations with Israel, which shows no willingness to resolve the Palestinian question fairly? Let us be followers and honourers of what we say in the first place and continue to support. As MERA25 from the outset we have said that increased cooperation with a country such as Israel, which not only respects human rights, but is acting criminally, is the worst political option that we can adopt and in no way close our eyes to the crimes of Israel, the murders of children and civilians, so we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u62	Mr Pafile, you have the floor for a minute, something to fill in.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. We also want to express the condolences to the police officer's family who lost his life yesterday and wish and restore the health of the other who are in a serious state. But I want to note this. Yesterday three employees were killed, one on the subway of Thessaloniki, one in Zakynthos with electrocutel and one in Drama who dropped a piece of rock on it. These are employers' crimes, in our view. Of course neither the Minister of Labour nor anyone will come out to say condolences. We are not just going to express our condolences. What we want to denounce is that the situation is unacceptable and has escaped from every limit. The government must take its responsibilities. There is employers' immunity, incredible intensification of work and no security measures. These are employers' crimes. And, of course, they are not confronted, but someone - and we say it all the time - needs to talk about those who go to get their family bread and who produce the wealth we see around us and go home to the coffins. And these are responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u66	Please. Let me run the procedure. I'll see you around. One will speak, either you or Mr. Raguss.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, one minute on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u68	The others have disagreements, and here, exceptionally, we said they'd talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, can we not have a minute on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u70	Any parties that have not disagreed will not speak. And from the New Democracy, one will speak, if he wants, who won't disagree. And by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, I insist.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u72	The President of the Greek Solution Mr Velopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u74	Then I'll give you the floor. You can't always talk about the process. Immediately afterwards, I will give you the floor to say about the procedure, but only about the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, the same sensitivity to show it beforehand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u76	Come on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Pafilis is absolutely right. It is good to remember also those workers who lose their lives every day in accidents at work. The point is correct, and we have to make it acceptable anyway. Not only for human reasons, but mainly because there is indeed a problem in the market and entrepreneurship, because employment rights are being circumvented many times, regardless of whether we are dealing with these issues. We're going to the deal with Bulgaria. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem with Greek foreign policy and its pathogen is that it gives everything very easily and takes nothing. That's the reality. I am referring to Bulgaria, not to the Convention itself. We are the country that put them in the European Union. We could veto them and the Skopje and the Albanians and the Romanians and everyone. The question is that before the PASOK put them and the New Democracy in the European Union should have adopted concrete measures, at least, for the national issues to be side by side with us Bulgarians. Unfortunately, we lost EUR 6 billion from the mistakes made by both the PASOK and the New Democracy. Greeks left northern Greece and invested in Bulgaria. The turnover of these companies is EUR 6 billion, an incomprehensible amount that the government - I told the Prime Minister personally - could bring it to Greece, reducing the rate of taxation for these companies that will come to Greece. So 15% is in Bulgaria? Being 15% or 14% in Greece, to come 6 billion - we don't have it - tires. Fifty-three thousand jobs are, you know. Fifty - three thousand jobs have given Bulgaria Greek businessmen. They absorb 4.7% of all Greek exports. The amount of direct Greek investment is EUR 2.2 billion in Bulgaria. And I say all this because we are exemplified in the overall ranking of investors in Bulgaria as a country and Greece does not have investments. Give an incentive to the Greek businessman to invest in Greece. Give me a break! And let's go to the rest. Doesn't it seem strange to you that Bulgaria has made an axis with Germany? Doesn't any of you see it in here? Bulgaria in two world wars - mainly in World II, to be clear - while it started in World I with us, later went with the Axis to get Macedonia and Thrace, and in World War II it was with the Germans. And we see that, now, such an axis is being created: Bulgaria, Germany, Italy, Hungary, Spain and Malta have reacted to the sanctions against Turkey. Don't we see it? Don't we see that? We have to respond immediately. Is it accidental that illegal immigrants are not going to Bulgaria? Bulgaria from Germany is closer than Greece and Germany. If you go to Bulgaria, you go more easily to Germany than to Greece. They come in here because Borisov has made a deal with Erdogan. Find out what's going on. And most importantly, he made 200 miles of a fence that no one can pass. Fence! And everyone goes through here, all the miserable and intimidated on Earth. They're coming here because we're just not taking repressive action. Borisov after the 2019 Turkle Pact, do you know what he said about Turkey? "I told the Greeks to find the tools to help themselves." We have put them in the European Union and where is the Bulgarians' European solidarity? That's why I'm saying we need to be careful. And, indeed, the geostrategic position of Turkey has also been exuded. He said it's a friendly country with Bulgaria and he can't be ruined. I understand that, because in its southern part there are too many Turkish Muslims who are owned by Turkish chauvinism. But we have given it all to the Balkan peoples and we have all been 'emptied'. This should be a message for the coming years, at least, of Albania and Skopje. Because Albanians are also based on the Turks. These must be messages from the mistakes of the past, not to repeat them. Borisov, March 2, 2020: “My friend Erdogan. It is a great mistake to bring people who are at European border confrontation with an army." And he was referring to Greece. These are the Bulgarians. If, therefore, Greece wants to respond in a legitimate and legitimate way, to carry out ongoing checks, Mr. Colleague, on the milk and meat products coming from Bulgaria, to carry out frequent quality checks and send all the products that are of low quality back to Bulgaria or Romania. That means a serious state. That means I'm pushing a country so it doesn't win from my own ignorance. I will simply say to you that we do not have bridges in Promahona, they do not work - I spoke to people last night - to control the weight, to control other things. Self-propelled scanners and staff are inadequate in the area where products are introduced which may be dangerous to Greek citizens consumers. At the same time you also protect the Greek livestock farmer, the Greek dairy industry, if you like, the Greek producer, farmer, farmer, farmer. That's not what Greece does either. I don't even believe hers, and I want profits, it doesn't protect our country. Not our country, the government finds no way, any government. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President is ringing.]] And I'd like now to be quick, because it's a little time to go to Greek-Turkish. I never expected the Greek Prime Minister to lie so much. When I spoke with him, he told me that he did not speak with Turkey or with Germany about the Greeks when we spoke on the phone. When it became the story with the head of his office, we were told that we were not talking about Turkey, that they were all lies and that they were New Democracy MPs on their own channels, "SKAY", when SYRIZA or we were trying to opposition, that we were representatives of the Turks because we were invoking the Turkish press, because we said the Turks said that you were talking behind the scene. And they called us Turkish propaganda people in Greece. Who? The New Democracy colleagues. And today I read Mr Mitsotakis: 'We had reached a written agreement with Berlin'. This means that they have agreed on something that you don't know about either the JRC or Mera25 or the PASOK. Something in writing was agreed. I don't know where in the leak? Work's broken. It is an institutional offense by a Prime Minister, lying to chiefs of the Civilian opposition or other parties, when he says that "we speak honestly or that we speak openly". That is why I have now stopped saying that the Council of Political Heads will never do so, as the New Democracy seems to have done. Because he has just agreed on some things that we do not know and we will find them in front of us. He never mentioned it. So I will tell the New Democracy that, as a great politician who was not a very philanthropist, but I will invoke him, Desraelli, there are three kinds of lies, the usual ones - which, unfortunately, New Democracy is addicted - to statistics - which you are champions - and, most importantly, to destructive ones. This is where you became champions. Because if you signed something with the Turks, it means you did something wrong, devastating about the country's foreign policy, without any one of us being informed, without anyone knowing anything at all. I hope - I repeat - that you have not signed anything that we will find before us. Because with the debates on the illegal claims by the Turks, all you do is legalise their claims, whether we talk about Samos, we talk about Chios or about what we say and what we talk about. Listen: Dialogue with a guy who said this, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, "A century ago, either we buried them in the soil or we dropped them at sea" and he is called Erdogan, you cannot do it. You can't talk to a chauvinist, fascist, Nazi, authoritarian assailant, hungry by his people, who put alarms on their products so that the starving Turks don't steal them from the supermarkets. You can't have a dialogue with this man. There is no dialogue because it survives chauvinism, it survives militarism. There can be no chauvinism and militarism even in the kemalians. That's how Turkey is addicted. It's a country looking for a vital place. It's a country that's looking to come out and review all its agreements. The accident for the New Democracy is that at the time of the demolition of churches, we build mosques. I have a church here, in Prussa, because this is my origin, from Prussa, half Pontius and half Asia Minor. They demolished a historic monastery, a historic church this year. In two years, she's been demolished. The New Democracy makes three mosques on islands that Turkey claims. Listen to Mrs Kerameo's criminal error and the New Democracy. She talks about Dodecanese and Turkey questions the Dodecanese, we have small, two hundred and three hundred people, both of them, a minority in Rhodes or Kos and she goes and builds mosques. Tell me why, why is this all happening? I say that because I want us to be consistent. So on the basis of international conditions, ladies and gentlemen, since you are all invoking them, two islands are under foreign occupation in the Aegean, only two. Do you know who it is, based on international conditions? Imbros and Tenedos, these two islands, according to the Treaty of Lausanne, have their own property, Greek administration, Greek hierarchy. It's called the Treaty of Lausanne. Everything else you can't talk about. It can't be done. Of course, what bothers me most is that I have been pushing New Democracy and the Government for a long time. The Turkish pound's falling apart. What would the Greek solution do? He would've shut down the transit of Turkish trucks. It's very simple, not that I'm just closing my borders. I'm making them permanent checks on their tires - as the Skopje, the Serbs, the guys - in their exhaust gas so that they can delay their products, since you can't shut them down. Why? I drink Europe like that. Because all these products are European, they are not Turkish. They are mixed Euro-Turkish companies, which carry bulk products from Greece. I show to Europe that I am determined to go to the extremes. Here we are talking about mediator situations and because New Democracy is looking for a solution to its problem, I will tell them: Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that Qatar, which is Turkey's strategic ally, controls 10% of the largest German bank? Do you know that? Do you think that Turkey's strategic partner, Qatar, who gives Erdogan money and controls Germany's central bank - here are the results, the bank's balance sheets, which I will submit in the Minutes, 10% controls it, which means that it uploads and downloads administrations - will Germany ever help Greece? Is that what we think in here? And because I want to go to the most serious issue, I would like to say that for forty years this country has not been able to pursue a serious policy. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President is ringing.]] Mr. Ragossi, you were Minister and you were. I have the Turkish lobby in front of me in the United States. There is no greater tool for foreign policy than lobbies. Greece bears its eyes to the Greek expatriates. Turks have lobbys with which they fund senators, politicians, offices of presidents of the United States. So here are the documents and all the money. Hundreds of millions of euros for lobbying give Turks. That is why Turkey is more receptive internationally than Greece. When you don't have mercenaries, you can't do business. And Turkey has mercenaries. Unfortunately, Greece has never done anything. You'll tell me we don't have...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u78	You're welcome, Mr. President. You've reached twelve minutes. Mr. Mylonakis has spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u79	I'm hanging up here, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u80	In view of the fact that the programme is burdened, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u81	Let's go to Moria's, 'cause some people are probably messing with things. Ladies and gentlemen, who set the fire? I'm asking you. Did the bad Greeks put it on? They put her in the police? Some of them put it on. Shouldn't they be deported immediately, arrested and imprisoned? Who set the fire on Moria? You tell me. Because there's been a fire before. Apart from the first burning, there was a second burning. Some people put the fire on. You have a problem realizing the problem. Listen. I have a picture here. In front of the police, and back to the fire extinguish the fire. Do you know why? Because at the time the fire went to the fire, and other photographs, here I've got them packed up - these good people, poor people, their peacekeepers were throwing stones, because they didn't want the fire to erase. And after that thing has been burned, the government or our state will now pay 200m euros, an extraordinary sum from the Greeks' pocket to re-engineer camps. We're talking about 200 million euros. They're coming here, they're not asking us, they're breaking in illegally. Of course, there's this banner - there's also a photo - two days ago in Lesvos that we're gonna burn Lesvos down, we're gonna destroy her. Illegal immigrants themselves. You will tell me 'no all'. I agree with you, but neither can we find them, who are the provocators. They don't either! So that means what? That sometime we need to heal the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, please, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u83	We have proposed something and I will tell you once again: Inhabitant islands. There's no other way. Highly uninhabited islands, so we don't have explosions, as we had in Moria, I repeat. Otherwise, listen: Uninhabited islands you don't want the Left. I understand that. In your homes you don't want to take them. I understand that too. But why should the Greeks pay well, save your own ideal, charity, etc.Huh? Why would you tell me why the Greek pay all this broken? Uninhabited islands with human structures, because Moria is a prison of human souls. There are inhumane conditions in which people lived there. So I'm telling you, since you're philanthropists, agree with us. With normal structures, with human structures, with water, with electricity, we can do so, but in the inhabited islands and deport from there all those who came illegally. That's what we say. I think it is serious, that it is measured, because some have misunderstood even this for Macronisos and Gyro. I didn't say that in a bad way. We don't have infrastructure I told you. We don't have infrastructure, and because the Left has a charity, which I appreciate, I said that there can be transiently hosted by the people on the streets now hungry. These immigrants - illegal immigrants - we tell them we, refugees, you tell them - are on the way. Shouldn't we put them somewhere?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u84	Mr. President, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u85	Closing down, let me say this. Four hundred children were transferred to Macedonia, children unaccompanied, eighteen, nineteen, twenty years old, with beards were most. If you want to "Macedonistan" Greece, you are wrong. These aren't unaccompanied little kids. They're old and they're the "five coup", which you don't want to see. I fear that not everyone but few need to create the problem. So be careful because this is a national issue and we cannot play with fire. You will see at the end that the inhabited islands will also propose them, because it is a sensible solution, a solution which needs to be made to get away from a national subject that is, unfortunately, coming and we are not seeing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u86	Since, by the way, it has been said about Moria, I have to tell you, Mr President, that, as far as the Ministry of Public Affairs is concerned, security measures have been taken for the world as well, for the citizens and in particular for Moria. Indeed, with an additional presidential decree of the Minister of Public Order, a separate police department is also set up to supervise the entire region. The other facts are many. We have no time now to develop them and they are not here, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Giannoulis, I'll give you the floor for a minute, tell me about the procedure. I should like to make it clear, however, that by way of derogation, we said that the parliamentary representatives or the rapporteurs of the parties who had no objections, who voted in favour, only them and therefore...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u89	I understand that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u90	...if you want to talk about the substance of the matter for a minute, Mr. Raguss will not speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u91	I'm not actually going into it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u92	Come on, come on, come on, come on, come For the procedure now, I will not be strict and I will not tell you which provision we have violated during the procedure. Because you need to indicate which provision. In any case, though, because there is tolerance from the Bureau in general to say about the procedure without demanding that the provision which has been breached and not a written proposal be printed, please tell us for half a minute what the infringement of a provision consists of.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, I will say this with great respect both to your face and to your institutional role, but it is good in this process that we are not cheap in flour and expensive in pit. For overcoming the shock of what I have heard a moment ago, the Left is a philanthropist, I would like to say that the Left is defending and fighting for European values and humanitarian values.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u94	All of Parliament's parties are all distinguished for their sensitivities on the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u95	Yeah, but I'd rather not have a dialogue with your permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u96	Okay. I don't think that was the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u97	It is shocking what has been heard with your tolerance, as well as that we, yes, are against uninhabited islands and against uninhabited minds. In particular, I would like to tell you that you tolerate a smuggling. You say, for example, that those who have proposed for - and rightly on the basis of the 108 provision - should not be speaking. Can you explain to me why there is tolerance to smuggling, to vote in favour of the Greek Solution and, of course, to gain the required right to use by speaking to the leader of the Group's parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u98	I apply the Rules of Procedure and since the Rules of Procedure provide for this, I cannot...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u99	Yes, of course. But I end up...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u100	Then it's not the first time reservations have arisen and bills not sanctions...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u101	Mr. President, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u102	...and the party comes here and changes after all, with amendments that have been made, with legislative improvements. That's not what it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u103	And the last one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u104	Come on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u105	As Mr Kamine will be given the floor, and since you should have had the minutes of the committee, you will read that our position was in favour of a statement of objections, on which Mr Chrysochoidis committed himself by saying: 'I will reply Thursday to the plenary.' Therefore, there is an undeniable need - what Mr Kamine said - to have the floor as rapporteurs for two minutes, beyond the placement of our Parliamentary representative. Thank you very much. I repeat my grief for what has been heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Kamines has the floor for a minute, and then he's Mr. Raguss. Here, Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u107	I will not abuse, Mr President. I should also like to express our condolences to the second guard to wish rapid recovery. I would like to say that we are also voting in favour of these agreements for political reasons, because they broaden the country's international bases and are countries which, in one way or another, participate in developments in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Aegean. Thirdly, you will allow me to submit to the Minutes the question I signed on the initiative of the former Prime Minister, Mr Papandreou, on the issue of the coronary in hospitality structures, with specific references to Moria, with detailed questions. I'm sorry to say it, but it was prophetic. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point Mr Georgios Kaminis presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What I would like to say is that our concerns about police departments also seem to be verified. We just heard about the Alimos Police Department, about the young Egyptian, that a whole police station is in danger of getting quarantine. But that will be the time to discuss it in greater detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u108	Thank you too for keeping time. Mr. Ragus has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President, and I will try to be within time to return your good will. First of all, I too will be allowed to express on behalf of the President of the SYRIZA and the Progressive Alliance, the whole of our parliamentary group, the pain in the unfair loss of the young police officer yesterday in this accident, which is being investigated and, at the same time, to express our hopes and wishes for the full recovery of the other police officer, who was involved in this accident. We are obliged, Mr President, especially on a day like today, which dawned very much in the minds and backs of all the Greek people - and I refer to the tragic events that took place in Moria yesterday - to say that this is a specified and, despite our warnings, completely unjustified development, which does not mean that it also entails serious political responsibilities. Last year, in July 2019, the current Minister for Civil Protection visited Moria declared his pleasure and his satisfaction with the situation in which he found this structure. Yesterday, Moria became an intrusion of the fire! Thirteen thousand people are on the streets, creating a series of images that literally make us ashamed on behalf of the government of Mr.Mitsotakis, but not on behalf of the Greek people. Because this image that exists since yesterday in Moria is not Greece. This picture from yesterday in Lesvos is not Greece. The fact that Moria was doomed, surrendered as a fire paradox to flames is indeed the result of an arson mechanism. But this arson mechanism is one: it is the policy of the Mitsotakis Government. This policy actually put on hold and led, despite our warnings, in a predetermined way to this painful result yesterday. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u110	You asked me to speak on another matter and I have to answer it now. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u111	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u112	Please, Mr. Giannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u113	I'm the one who's here, please. All the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u114	Please, Mr. Giannoulis!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u115	You can't just comment on SYRIZA. Do it to the rest of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u116	Listen, I'm not here to learn from the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 66, in particular paragraphs 7 and 8, the speaker, when speaking, must not leave the subject. There's a tolerance. However, after leaving the subject, the President-in-Office may also respond to an issue that has been raised. Mr. Ragossi, listen. The problem of immigration is too big for Moria. So don't say it's the government's fault. Because the doctrine of the open borders, you did it, and that's what we received. In fact, there were no structures ready by you, so that we could then take the world, which was illegally introduced. So border infringements, with the issue of open borders, have been made by the previous government. But this is not a matter of policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u117	You're a government minister? Are you President-in-Office or Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u118	It's an answer. Let go. He won't be monologue here! If it is off the agenda, the President may reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u119	There's a minister to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u120	I am not talking about the substance, because if it were on the substance, I had to go down to the bottom. Understood? It is not a question of the agenda. But some questions cannot be left unanswered. Of course, it's a big deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, the floor. I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u122	Please, Mr Ragosi, you have. We're done now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u123	Mr President, personal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Villard, you can't. Your president spoke. The procedure will be followed. Mr. Gregoriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. After, of course, we, of course, also express our condolences to the family of the police officer, the new man who was so unfairly lost yesterday in his duty, as well as to our hope that his second colleague might escape, I will only say, Mr President, that, with the consent of the previous government, we have reached Moria. A Moria, which has a capacity of about two thousand people and has been stacked today by thirteen thousand people in terrible conditions, that is, without the basic water or running water and the final closure took place in the past few days, due to the thirty-five positive cases of the structure, so that one can no longer get out of there. So, in our view, we do not need someone to have divination skills to think that what has been done was inevitably. Incarceration in the Moria concentration camp would lead to tragedy, which hastened to the cases of the coronary. But we do not think that Moria is a failure of our present government alone. It is a constant condemnation of the Greek governments, who built it and turned it into a concentration camp. Above all, however, it is a condemnation of the German Government and of Mrs Angela Merkel and its non-human agreements with Turkish President Erdogan, which, by working on the refugees and using them as pawns, has brought the result, which we have lived in the past few days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, personal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, what's the staff? Just say the staff. Please don't get into the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, he spoke of uninhabited minds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, you see that I respect all the speakers and much more the Presidents of the parties and there is a tolerance for time too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u130	Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u131	Please tell me what the staff is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u132	He said, "For uninhabited minds." Didn't you hear that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u133	Mr. President, did you hear the name Velopoulos? You've got choice. Whoever has the flies...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u134	Wait a minute, let's hear what the staff are up to. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u135	My village has flies...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u136	That is a reason to think, since the Conference of Presidents is not suggesting any differently, not to give the floor. You see what's going on. This tolerance is working so far very well. Otherwise - as Mr Pafilis said - if we are talking about applying the Rules of Procedure or amending the Rules of Procedure, we must amend the Rules of Procedure. There's a tolerance, but don't overdo it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u137	You modified him. You did it today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u138	You have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u139	I do not follow anyone, nor am I to blame anyone, nor will I go to the personal talk. So I would say this: I was never an ERT employee, nor was I paid by ERT. I have a point of view that everyone can disagree with. I'm not going to overthrow anyone or squash.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u140	It was a judgment. It's understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u141	Who has an uninhabited mind can be seen from his course. If the gentleman proves to me or anyone in here that he has a better course than I do, we can talk about it. But to tell them self-evidently, that the people there, the illegal immigrants, the refugees are hungry there, starving, let's get them to some serious place, and tell me about the uninhabited islands? Hey, what can I say? I don't know. Everyone is judged by what he says. The gentleman has an obsession. It's okay, I'll leave her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, we are not done. Mr President, the last name has been mentioned this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u143	Please, it's over. Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, there is staff, you have to give me a minute. Didn't you hear the last name?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u145	It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u146	Are you kidding?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u147	Nobody said anything against you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Athanasios, do you have a problem hearing?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u149	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Palphie, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, I have taken the floor for something very comparable. Now the debate has been generalized. You'll give me two minutes to talk, too. You are giving the floor to all the parliamentary representatives on this matter. Give me the floor for two minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u152	We gave the time only to the parties that had disagreements. Of course, in time everyone can overcome the subject of the agenda, but in time. From that point on, when one raises a point of view, there is no need for the Bureau to give the floor to any speaker who wants to reply to a non-dayly question when they are not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u153	There was a personal report.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u154	So please don't embarrass me. I want this to be over. Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, I insist!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u156	Wait a minute, I have the floor. As you have given Mr Lebanese, as you have given Mr Ragosi, as you have given Mr Kamine, I will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u157	I gave it to you before.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u158	No, you didn't. Thirty seconds was only to tell about the condolences. So, how's it going to be?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Paphie, I have not interrupted you. I gave you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u160	You'll give me two minutes later to speak at all, as you give everyone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u161	Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, I insist, there is staff. It has to be explained before you continue. You're judging. You leave insults on people unanswered? It's a disgrace to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Giannoulis, don't trigger the situation any more. Ladies and gentlemen, the hours are crucial. The events in Moria raise serious issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u164	Leave unanswered personal peaks? Such a one-way thing? Are you afraid of Mr. Velopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u165	Mr. Giannoulis, sit down and let the process evolve.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Giannoulis, please, sit down. There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u167	Please! In the name of Giannoulis, and what do I do, is there no staff? Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u168	But what did he say against you? Do you bear in mind what the Rules of Procedure say on the personal matter? Either he gave you reproach or distorted some of your opinions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u169	He raised his face and business path. Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u170	Is that personal? It's not under the Rules of Procedure. I'm not giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u171	...expressed my face and my professional path.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u172	There won't be any abuse here. Please! Here, sit down. You have the floor, Mr Levane.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u173	So the events in Moria at these critical times raise major issues of humanism, public health protection, but above all national security, no matter how many people do not see it in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u174	There's no way! Not all Members of Parliament can speak and not give the floor to us, which in the end we were the only ones to disagree. Aren't you gonna give me two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u175	It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u176	Let Mr. Lebanese speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Lebanese is speaking. What's he talking about? I say well they did and talked. Didn't everyone talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u178	No, we didn't all talk. Two minutes and these are rusty.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u179	I want two minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u180	Let's see how much Mr. Lebanese will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u181	I want two minutes or thirty seconds. I told you about very specific. The debate can't be generalised and we can't talk. I agree that Mr Lebanese should speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u182	All the Members of Parliament spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, if Mr Lebanese speak more, and we have no objections, we shall also speak in addition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u184	You broke the Staff Regulations. Remember that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u185	Go on, Mr. Levane, because it's time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u186	You realise that, obviously, I need to speak a little more, because there have been a lot of things out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u187	Please! I'm not taking a word. You broke the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u188	Mr President, if Mr Lebanese makes a full speech you will give us the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u189	It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u190	You realise that if we had followed the procedure as we said, all this would not be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u191	It's not our fault, Mr. Levane.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u192	I understand the concerns expressed before about what is happening in Lesvos. As the relevant ministers have said, there is no indication that these are hostile actions. It is certain that those who lit the fires by reacting to health control will be identified and confronted with the consequences of the law. Respect for the legal order is necessary for every asylum seeker in our country. I have heard the President of the Greek Solution and the anxiety he is expressing. But when the Prime Minister gives the struggle to Corsica today and to all international fora all the previous days, in order to protect national interests, we must all be careful about our criticism and our positions. Greece is carrying out a titanic effort to deal with Turkish provocation and so far we have only counted successes. The target is national and we all serve him. The Prime Minister - and I reply to Mr Velopoulos - referred to unofficial but secret discussions. That's it. No lies, no misinterpretations, no tensions and, of course, no resentment to Mr Velopoulos or to any other colleague who is sincerely concerned about our national policy and Turkey's aggression. I am surprised that you are causing, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. I believe that the position of the parliamentary representative was mild. We even welcome him to this new position. I think that this is how we should go, to prove together that we can assume our responsibilities as a nation and stand up to the circumstances. Don't get away from this principle you've put in, Mr. Ragosi. Let us keep it, with our differences, in our views. You have your responsibilities. The Government of the New Republic shall assume its responsibilities every day. The SYRIZA government has its own responsibilities. The Greek people know what has happened. Let's not enter into a pointless controversy today. I have to say that the government has been next to the inhabitants of Lesbos. Move the European Commission. We've seen Michel's aid statements and today Margaritis Schinnas will be on the island. The Prime Minister pledged that the inhabitants of Lesvos will receive support and compensation. Already yesterday, in collaboration with the committee, all unaccompanied children were transferred four hundred eight to the number of one thousand two hundred who were at the beginning of the year, to safe places and hotels. Those who have been diagnosed positively in the coronary will receive medical attention, because this is important for our policy and for the humanism shown by the country, and we are taking all the measures necessary to protect vulnerable groups, but above all all all all all all the inhabitants of Lesvos. Moreover, it is a priority to strengthen the Lake Hospital. Any specific proposals by the government can be heard. However, the incident in Moria does not change, but rather strengthens the stable and effective policy that the country has started on immigration. This policy is based on the axis of internationalisation, which we expect to have results as well as on our national policy, and on the decongestion of the islands. Data is data. Since the beginning of 2020, twenty thousand and thirty-three thousand immigrants have left Moria, and since the summer of 2019 twenty thousand have left. At the same time, the asylum procedure has accelerated by 150%, and for the first time in modern history there is a positive balance between arrivals and departures. 50% of the total number of people who have arrived have left. I say this to be recorded in the Minutes and to inform the Greek people. At the same time, the importance of creating closed controlled structures which will offer human living conditions for immigrants and a sense of security to the local population is highlighted. However, it is clear that such turmoil, such as the ones that happened in Moria, will not be tolerated. Respect for the rule of law and the rule of law is a prerequisite for the asylum procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation requires national unity and consensus. This is no time for opposition crowns and divisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u193	Mr. Lebanon, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u194	We must all stand together in the face of the circumstances. We must honour our deposit and our history. And that is what we will do, gloriously representing and expressing the feelings and the logic of the whole Greeks and Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u195	So you see what happens with the tolerance given. In other words, you are making someone regret that we are violating the Rules of Procedure in order to make it easier for Members to enter another subject and the debate has been opened. Mr Paphie, you said the Rules of Procedure were violated. What's it to?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u196	We have said from the outset, Mr President, that the procedure is specific from the Rules of Procedure of the House, that is to say we are talking only about those who are opposed. Receipts were the Communist Party of Greece. We said 'if you want' to make an agreement of another kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u197	By custom he had prevailed. We should abolish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u198	Wait a minute, change the Rules of Procedure, I have no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u199	Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u200	And it finally started to be positioned. We avoided talking about topicality and did so consciously. When such a matter is opened, all the parliamentary representatives will be placed. I'm asking for two minutes and I'll read it. Firstly, there are huge responsibilities from the government, and this and the previous one, because she knew the situation that existed - I say the previous one - and I will explain it - and in what we have been saying so long, in the repeated speeches we have made, on the deaf door as you want to rain! The situation is tragic. It's thirteen thousand, it's bad conditions, I don't want to repeat them. The second side is the violation of all health protocols to serve the big-time owners and shipowners, which contributed to the transmission of the pandemic. Yes or no? Are there any responsibilities in this or are they not? How did it go and we had the thirty-five cases, like in general? Thirdly, I should like to address SYRIZA as well. Don't do that we don't have a responsibility. Who accepted the disgraceful agreement between the European Union and Turkey? The government of SYRIZA signed it, and all refugees and immigrants are enclaved in the islands, and the New Democracy has continued it and welcomed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u201	If necessary, let us have a debate in this House. It's a big deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u202	I shall now conclude, Mr President. Not to mention Dublin where all parties voted 'in favour'...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u203	It's a big deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u204	I shall conclude, Mr President, what the positions of the Communist Party of Greece are. First of all, we must immediately, with measures to disengage and leave. To go ships and go to structures within the country, to control those who have a coronary and quarantine, because otherwise the situation will not be dealt with with with new closed CSTs, we will have the same. Of course, it is in some human conditions and the procedures must be accelerated and those who are to leave will quickly be given documents and leave for the countries that need to go and have special care for the families, because, as Mr Lebanese said, I have also read, the unaccompanied children have left. The situation again warns that it will not change. He'll be generalized. The Aegean islands cannot be transformed into the specific conditions which exist, the general tension, into camps for the concentration of refugees and migrants, which will of course be working from many people, who know them very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u205	Mr Ragosi, in view of the fact that you have not answered Mr Velopoulos for a moment, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, do not commit yourself. I do not commit because, in addition to all others, you did something in the acquired speed with which you act as a Member of the Lesvos,...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u207	Mr Ragossi, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u208	...you entered the essence and answered me before. Mr Lebanese had prepared a full written speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u209	I have explained the possibilities of the President-in-Office. It's in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u210	Let me tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u211	You will allow me, because I know the Rules of Procedure well. Keep going, Mr. Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u212	If it is done without interruption, Mr President, I would like to say this: it is really to be admired - and I say this sincerely - the courage of representatives of such a government, which, after a whole year's administration of this very difficult and obviously thorny global dimension of the problem, from where it comes, how it has evolved and so on, has done its utmost for a whole year to do not just one wrong thing behind the other, but actually to make a series of choices that have brought the absolute deadlock on this island and on all the islands of the north-eastern Aegean and on virtually the line of our borders with Turkey. It has brought these local communities to an absolute dead end, it has brought refugees to an absolute dead end, and Greece suddenly appears to be treated in the most pitiful way that even third-world countries do not treat human existence and, of course, has at the same time brought the absolute deadlock to the whole country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much, Mr Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u214	I shall conclude, Mr President. Please stop the vacation. This is the result of conscious choice. It is no accident, because this government has chosen to have Moria, to have Lesvos and all of Greece as a ghetto, as a store of souls. It was her choice not only to close the border on the east, but to close the Western borders as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u215	The population was reduced from twenty - five hundred, but to thirteen thousand five hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u216	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u217	No, we're done. Mr. Kamines is entitled for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u218	Mr President, for the last time I give you the opportunity! Correct the wrong violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u219	When I'm working...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u220	Not to us. To the ones who excite us. Let selectively be insulted by MPs...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u221	Please...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u222	It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u223	Who spoke? Mr. Ragus spoke twice. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u224	To restore...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u225	When someone's being insulted here can't... (Scoffs)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u226	Mr Giannoulis, especially you know how much I appreciate you both for the mildness of your character and your word. But now you're wrong with me. Mr. Kamine, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u227	Mr President, I have already been eaten by half a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u228	But when someone's exaggerated...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u229	Mr. President, I was surprised...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u230	Mr. Poppa, please, this is over. Mr. Kamines only spoke forty-five seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u231	We are not new here and the problem has arisen since 2015 and has not yet been solved. And because there has been since 2015 and since then, before the coronary broke out, the famous phrase 'health bomb', we all knew what was going to happen. That's the first. The second is that we do not yet have a plan for a problem which will also be exacerbated. I am referring to Victoria Square, to the intangible arrivals in Athens in a way that is completely unorganised by recognised refugees. We need to see what we're going to do. The third to restore the truth: Mr Lebanese spoke and said he had improved the balance of arrivals - departures. It has improved to a very low level, but what you have not told us and which the government has diligently concealed is the composition of the people who come and the composition of the people who leave, the populations. 80% of those leaving are Albanian nationals. It is not the populations that have come from Turkey. This is to restore the truth, Mr President, so that we can have an accurate picture of what is happening and see what we are going to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. Kamine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u233	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Levane, we're done. You've been talking for four minutes. Please, because the situation will be perpetuated and we will all ask for a second. Leave it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u235	I would just like a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u236	Please, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u237	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u238	It's not a matter. It doesn't make any sense. You've given answers to all the issues. It's going to start a new circle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u239	No, it won't start a new cycle. Very calmly just a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u240	Leave it, please. You don't have to. They'll all ask for the floor later. It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u241	Firstly, both Mr Ragus and Mr Giannoulis have been mentioned by name to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u242	You've been answering first.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u243	Yeah, I know, but because they were mentioned, I'd like to make a little clarification, so that I can have my conscience quietly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u244	I give you the floor only for clarification, not for placement. Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u245	I am sorry, Mr Ragosi, that you have not kept the style and the morality of your first intervention and you have tried to speculate politically with your second intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u246	It's going to start a new cycle now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u247	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u248	Fortunately for the country where this government exists. As far as what Mr Kamine said is concerned, it is good that you recognise it and I hope that the other wings will recognize it as positive. From there on, because we are at critical times, I think it is useful that the Ministry's leadership should give us more information to you who are specifically concerned with this issue, but we see that we are in the right direction and at this stage we must not spark disagreements and dissent, we must unite all Greeks and, above all, the inhabitants of Lesvos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u249	Thank you. You've become understandable. Under the Rules of Procedure, the Minister will close the debate. Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u250	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, having entered the final stage before the three draft laws were passed, I would like to make some points of a broader nature regarding the political message emitted through this initiative. But before I go on, I would like to make a general statement, given the reference to the events in Moria and so on. I mean, the government has strategy, it has a plan, it controls the borders, but it is a matter that is now very proud - we have said so beforehand - that it has elements of a national crisis. We need political consensus and consensus. We have a long way to go to deal with this issue. Everyone must assume their responsibilities at political level and at local level. For the first time we have a great deal of Europe near us and the realization that we are truly guarding European borders. It is an issue, however, broader, which requires a separate debate in this House and time is certainly not allowing us to do so now. As far as the events in Moria are concerned, the services, in addition to other activities, are involved in investigating the causes of the incident and in any case we hope that they will soon also be brought to justice. As far as the three draft laws are concerned now, I would like to say that this is a clear message with multiple recipients in the wider Southeast Mediterranean region that our country at a critical time remains a pole of stability and a reliable partner in sensitive public security issues, the fight against organised cross-border crime and border controls. We are stepping up and expanding the existing web of cooperation with countries, which are leading in the areas of know-how, research and development of new methods and practices in the abovementioned areas of particular interest to us. In particular, as far as the draft law on ratification of the agreement with the Government of Israel is concerned, we expect it to be of great benefit, because cooperation between the two countries is extremely close. Through another step, which is taking place today, the two countries, Greece and Israel, are even closer, inaugurating a new multitude of actions and synergies in areas where the friend country is taking the lead by driving technological advances at international level, of course maintaining the necessary balances that are required in the wider area to ensure our national interests. The amending Protocol to deepen cooperation with the security authorities of the Russian Federation is also of particular importance. We therefore have every reason to support this bilateral strategic relationship in the direction of building a solid, lasting and in-depth cooperation on security issues. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise once again the importance of each of the three draft laws, as they strengthen our country's special geopolitical weight and imprint in a sensitive area of Europe and the Mediterranean, and that is why I ask this House to vote in favour of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u251	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle of uniformity, the articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Civil Protection and their vote will be taken separately. We are entering the vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Israel on cooperation in the fight against crime and on matters of public security". I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u252	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u253	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u254	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Israel on cooperation in the fight against crime and on public security’ has been accepted by a majority of uniform in principle, Articles and all of which are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u255	We proceed to vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: ‘Preparation of the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on the fight against crime of 6 December 2001’. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u256	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u257	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u258	Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: ‘Definition of the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation in the field of combating crime of 6 December 2001’ was accepted by a majority of uniform in principle, Articles and all of which are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u259	We proceed to vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: ‘Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on joint control over the Nymphaia-Mkaza border corridor, concluded by an exchange of private communications (Athens, November 6, 2013 and Sofia, 17 July 2014, respectively)’. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u260	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u261	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u262	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: ‘Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on joint control at the Nymfan border-Mkaza route, concluded by exchanging private communications (Athens, November 6, 2013 and Sofia, 17 July 2014, respectively)’ was accepted by a majority of the following bodies:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u263	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the vote on all these drafts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u264	The House has given the mandate requested. We will now suspend - for only five minutes - and at 12.00 a.m. the meeting will be resumed on the request of the public prosecutor to waive immunity of colleagues. However, I would like to say this now that with the tolerance we have shown, but also the tolerance which the Bureau generally had with regard to the procedure laid down in Rule 108, and because it has exceeded the measure today even though we have had a short time, I would recommend that the Conference of Presidents be strictly respected from now on with the procedure laid down in Rule 108. Since the committees have taken decisions and the Conference of Presidents recommends it, we cannot break this process, because you see what has happened today, regardless of the fact that we have not left behind in time. Another time we can go back in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u265	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Requests for waiver of immunity: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament of the Kingdom of Greece - Peter Spanakis, Paul Pavlakis and George Vagiona. We shall proceed if, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents which was unanimously accepted, I see that there is at least sixty Members. If some colleagues enter the Chamber beyond the allowed number, I would ask them to go to the building or to the offices of their party or to the canteens, to attend the debates and to vote later. Don't worry, the system won't shut down while you enter. Definitely for 15 minutes it'll be open. So there is no concern that someone will not vote. However, I would ask that we respect this decision of the sixty Members in the Chamber. Thank you. The report of 1 September 2020 was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed to waive the immunity of Mr Vasiliou - Peter Spanakis. The report of 1 September 2020 was announced by the Committee’s own Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics, according to which the members of the Committee proposed, by a majority, that the waiver of Mr Paul Polakis’ immunity should be waived. Furthermore, the report of 8 September 2020 was announced by the same Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed to waive the immunity of Mr Georgios Vayonas. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide, by raising the hands or by raising the request of the Prosecutor, in accordance with the procedure referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 108(1). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with the decision of 7 March 2018 of the Conference of Presidents, this procedure has triggered the new system of electronic roll-call voting. So since the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is closed, we will proceed to a roll-call electronic vote, as I said. The first case concerns Mr Spanakis. We will give the floor to Mr Spankis and then, if there is any colleague who wants the floor, according to Rule 108, he may also take that floor. Mr. Spankee, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u266	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll be very brief. I would like to begin by saying that I am asking for the waiver of my immunity. In no case do I want to hide behind immunity. My route to self-government, trade unionism and politics demonstrates my respect for institutions and procedures. Today this House will deal with a matter which has two categories to do with my face. Two accusations that I ask for the lifting of my immunity to go to court as every Greek citizen, every ordinary citizen, is going to prove that the charges are unfounded and uninvited. I would like, however, to say that it was an event that was clearly political in December 2016 and, if you like, to hurt me personally. But to all those who wanted to create some impressions at a personal level I want to give them the answer to the courtroom. And I want to remind them that after this incident, I was elected President of the Tax and Cyclades with a unanimous decision of all trade unions, but all trade unions! I was elected again to the ADEDY - first on crosses - by all the trade union groups of the tax federation. And, of course, the citizens of Athens, South Sector, honoured me with their vote and sent me to the Greek Parliament. For all these reasons, I want to go to court as a ordinary citizen. That is why I asked the committee responsible for waiving my immunity. However, from the case-file I saw that they were missing cards from the sworn certificate of the New Democracy trade union secretary, who, Mr President, I tabled to the minutes of the committee, but I would like to submit here today to the House in order to accompany the case-file when he is returned to the Minister of Justice and to the prosecutor of the Ice Bay, where the Secretary of Trade Union of the New Democracy clearly says that this is a trade union misunderstanding and that Mr Spanaki's path has shown that it would never be possible to make that scene. But here we are and we are judged.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u267	Mr. Spankee, I'm sorry. I'm interrupting your time. I won't deprive you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u268	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u269	I would like to make a reminder of you and to inform the committee. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and, in particular, the Law on Responsibility of Ministers, which also applies to Members under Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, and so on, the case-file shall be returned to the Prosecutor as it entered the documents. This document, if not listed in the table...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u270	The document is given. It's the first page and the rest of the cards are gone, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u271	Please listen to me. The case-file - it is a tradition, I am not saying anything new now, it has been implemented for many years - will go as it has come. Of course, you, because we are not considering the substance of the case, these documents relating to the substance of the case and possibly in your favour, will be able to submit them to the court if you are referred back. But here, we cannot forbid you to testify because you have the right to testify, but you will then take them to court.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u272	Mr President, thank you very much and appreciate your experience and your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u273	I'm just mentioning the provisions. I'm not saying anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u274	However, let me say that this document refers to the attached documents, there is the first page and the rest of the cards are missing, and the rest of the cards indicate specific things. That is why I am compelled to testify. Forgive me if the process is not in the context.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u275	I'll interrupt you again, Mr. Comrade. Please very much by the parties of SYRIZA and New Democracy I see a density. In view of the fact that there are other seats freely, if you're kind enough to dilute a little, because from what I see you're over eighty people, maybe a hundred. The request is that we be only sixty for protection, mainly yours. Here you go, Mr. Spankee, your time begins again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u276	To close, Mr President, and thank you very much for the time, I ask this House to lift my immunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u277	Mr. President, I'm sorry. What's the charge? We didn't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u278	Haven't you been distributed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u279	In plenary it must be heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u280	The parties know. You should have been distributed to all parties. In any case, if a Member so requests and has not been informed, I will tell you that the charges are as follows: there is an attempt to frustrate an election result made by someone else as a natural author and accused by Mr Spankis as a moralist in this category. The other act relates to a false reference, made by another. Again, the charge is a moral automobile in this false report. The parties have been informed. However, in view of the fact that you have put it, Mr Philly, I would mention it to you. Now I'm telling you he's in all your lockers. We shall now proceed to the second case concerning Mr Paulo Paulakis. Mr Paulakis will now speak and then if a colleague wishes, he may take the floor in accordance with Rule 108. As the subject was raised about the previous case, let us say here that Mr Paulakis is also being accused of being a journalist for slandering. Mr. Polakis, come on, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u281	I'm coming, Mr. President. Don't be in a hurry. I'm taking care of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u282	You saw I haven't started time, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u283	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today I was asked by one, two employees "Why did you put black?" And I answered them with a mandarin they say in Crete, "Black I will wear black and black again, to match the dress with the heart of the larva", which became much bigger after yesterday's news, which, of course, was not released much in the systemic media, nor even on the Internet, and which is a reason - no matter how far - that I am again in this position. I do not know if you saw yesterday, yesterday, the French Competition Committee charged 385 million euros to NOVARTIS, 60 million to 'ROCHE' for the medicine Lucentis and market manipulation there, what Mr Loverdos and Mr Georgiadis overrated, as we have so many times proved, but this is a construction, which, however, Papagelopoulos is going to the special court and which you are preparing Toulopakis to take from the corruption prosecutor in the Bay of Unification with the financial prosecutor. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That's what I wanted to say as an introduction. Because I walk around the street three, four days ago in Moschato at the café I'm sitting in, a respected pensioner, who obviously had read about today's sitting, and he says to me: 'Mr. Polakis, are you okay not ashamed there in this House? We are financially ruined, we are afraid of our health now with the coronary epidemic that seems to be out of control, we are concerned about national issues, and Parliament will deal with what Paulakis told Kurtakis and how he said it.” I explained to him the man. I told him he was right in part. However, this issue is much more serious than it seems at first sight. And it's serious because it's two issues. Firstly, I shall speak legally at the outset and, in particular, at the beginning - it relates to the Member's legal position, to the freedom of speech in his duties and, in general, the parliamentary and democratic principle, as laid down in the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament, and has been vigilant for decades. I would point out that I am not referring to the provision 'no responsibility for Ministers'. Secondly, this story, today, is linked to the body of drunkenness that invents and carries out a rotten, corrupt and intertwined system to cover up its scandals, to avenge those who insist on their emergence and to enforce the law of silence. I begin with the first one, because it concerns us all, regardless of party and position right now in Parliament's seat, and, as you know, I will mention another Cretan saying - 'Where you stand standing and where I stand you will come and in your life know it, you have a lot to do with it'. The Rules of Procedure of Parliament, which were not created by SYRIZA, stipulates in Rule 83 that if the act in respect of which the waiver of immunity is sought is linked to the parliamentary or political activity of the Member, or the law of law, the Member shall not be waived. That is what the Rules of Procedure say. Whether the lawsuit of this sludge journalist hides political despicability, there is no need for much. I should like to comment briefly later on. However, no one doubts that what I said from this point of view - because that is why I am prosecuting today - a year ago for the war that I received from certain interests in order not to elect a Member - is not linked to my political and parliamentary activity. Did I know Kurtakis and since yesterday, or do we have any fields to share in Chania? He's from Kissamos, I'm from Sfakia. This year in February I saw him once on the plane and still the badge, but that's another story. You are all aware that no request for the waiver of immunity has been accepted to date for what he said in the context of his parliamentary duties. Indeed, the rejections were made by a large majority and not only by the votes of the party in question. I have here - and I shall put before you - a few examples: Mr Regousa in a suit for slanderous defamation, Mr Dinopoulou, again a suit for slandering in his parliamentary duties rejected by two hundred votes and over, Mr Argyri Lafazani, MP of PASOK, again rejected by two hundred fifteen votes, again on the same charge, or the lifting of immunity Friend, Fortsakis and Fokas from the previous House again for slandering defamation. I'm going to testify and testify a lot more then. Innumerable colleagues have explained and substantiated over all these years, the reasons why a Member should be judged politically and not criminally on what he says within Parliament. In any other case, the path of criminalising the parliamentary procedure is wide open, which is not only explicitly forbidden by the Constitution, but I want to believe that none of us wants. For if we get to the point where we are afraid of either the script or the suites and actions of Kurtakis and each of Kurtakis' bosses and we cannot freely express our positions and opinions, nor from this step, then not only will our rights as parliamentarians have been erroneous, but we also have a matter for the citizens of the Parliamentary Republic. Politics will not be exercised by the MPs elected by the Greek people, but will be dictated by the "Kourtakis" and "Marinakis", the bosses of the "Kourtakis", their employers, who will not criticise what we say - even badly optional, I accept that - but they will be able to censor us and punish us, threaten us for what they see as no good, so that they indicate and define our political positions and views. This case, however, is even worse, because Kourtakis did not give me any credit for something I said about him in discussing some bill or other references, but for a reference during my apology last year, in July, in the same Step as the one for the cases of the recording of Stournara and the slandering defamation of that lame of CEDEFOP, Pouli. The terms are not legally precise, i.e. the'reasoned'. Those of you - and you are a lot of legal education - know, of course, that the most fundamental right of every defendant is that he can tell what he wants and the way he wants in his apology, and that is without exception, whether he is written or oral or whether he is in the presence of the judge, the hearing, the examiner or the court. Indeed, this and the last amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure, according to which the defendant has the same rights as the defendant. Just think - and I close with this first part, the introductory - how many complaints you should have received from Members of Parliament, Mr Samaras, Mr Georgiadis, Mr Loverdos, for everything that was declared publicly by the Step of the House at their respective expense and not only from the Step of the House, but also from channels and from elsewhere. And we are not talking about slandering, but about threats and heavier acts. No one has sued them for what they were saying - 'gangs', 'cooking', 'we will scratch you, we will show you, we have told you all that, they have been recorded - not because the Members concerned were right about what they were saying, but because, until now, at least - the basic principle of the Parliamentary Republic was out of place, that no Member is being prosecuted for what he says in the exercise of political duties and whether we disagree with the content of his speech or with his way or with his style. Now we're going to purely political. On 23 September 2015, SYRIZA's second government took an oath. Not three months later, on 11-12-2015, a press conference is held at the Ministry of Health with me, Minister Andreas Xanthos, Secretary-General of Corruption at the time, Mr Vassiliades, General Inspector of the ESS, Evangelatos, as well as several accredited journalists. We were very innocent children and we were then. The interview was given on the occasion of the findings of the Health Inspectors' House, on the management of some funds - then a lot - of about EUR 3.5 million made available by CEDEFOP - for this part, for the EUR 3.5 million, is much more - in the period 2012-2014. In this first attempt to demonstrate the spread of public money in the health field, it was clearly revealed - then my eyes opened up - on which side is everyone standing. From that day on we fully understood what would follow. We, as Ministry of Health, moved quickly and within just three months, brought the first important event to the public, thus proving our unscrupulous will to bring to the surface and send to justice any irregularity of the past that would fall into our sense. In this effort we found toward us - and then we lived it for the first time - a solid median wall, ready to inhibit the unveiling of the CEDEFOP scandal - it was explained this after - which some had converted into offshore by the Ministry of Health and the governments concerned, which was washing out black political money and welcoming an army of political persons, officials and journalists over the previous years. In this first interview, in which we proceeded with revelations about the uncovered feed and media and their own "suppliers" with public money, a journalist called me a "dog". There is no corresponding incident in the country's political history, a journalist, on direct broadcasting, thus publicly calling a minister, which he did not know. After the interview, the vast majority of the media dealt with my answer to this journalist, because I, when they call me "dog", do not bleed, bite. Finger, talk! About the timeless and eye-feeding media, talk! For some to illegally give hundreds of millions of euros from the Treasury to nonexistent sites, talk! The fact that this has been done in excess of the ERIC's responsibilities has been discussed! The fact that these supposed communication campaigns had to be done free of charge, talk! My argument with the journalist who inevitably called me a "dog". Tactics were invented. And the problem in the mind of some had been solved in his birth: “Does Paul announce? It's okay, we'll find a way to degrade the complainants and go talk elsewhere, turn the conversation elsewhere." This interview is the first act of an unprecedented - in Greek times - attempting to kill a character with a ultimate goal either of my demise or of my political extinction, if I hadn't. From that day on, any efforts to restructure public health and the work we have done with Andreas Xanthos at the Ministry of Health were not even for systemic media. They didn't even exist! The revelations about smashing public money were not news. Everything that we revealed about "NOVARTIS" and the medical expense was news that "here is an organizational process". The expansion of the health system underwent was not news. The health coverage of unsafe in the midst, in fact, was not mentioned anywhere. The increase of more than EUR 1 billion in resources and expenditure on the public health system was not news. The fact that we received EUR 730 million in deficit and handed over EUR 300 million in surplus was not news. The recruitment of medical, nursing and other staff in hospitals - sixteen and a half thousand people! - it wasn't news. The new hospitals, the new departments, the new hospitals that we opened, still wasn't news about the media. On the contrary, it was an opportunity to hit the headlines of the Ministry of Health, especially when we opened hospitals, such as in Santorini, in areas where individuals had the monopoly in the provision of health services and were sanctifying. The significant support of the EMCDDA with three hundred ambulances, with both aerospace bases, was not news. The upgrading of hospital medical equipment and with the money of the Attica Region was still not a news story. You cut those ribbons today! None of yours! Nothin'! It's all ours! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And the financial reorganization of the EEA which we received with 2,200,000 dues and we delivered it with a hundred and fifty and with all the digital reorganization again was not a news story. From that day on, for systemically interconnected media Paulakis simply, firstly, does not allegedly have a proper political reason and has no ways. Secondly, it is allegedly involved in justice because it criticises the delay in the control and completion of procedures in cases of public dispute. The politicians - especially the politicians - should be the first to ask, and where I took them, and I knew what was going on, and I knew what I had taken them. Thirdly, Paulakis smokes, Paulakis has a mustache and he eats fish with meat. In front of this fight for my demise, my sleekness and the murder of my personality, it was and remains today Kourtakis, the person who claims to be a so-called journalist, but in fact is a corrupt folk, perhaps the most "CERNOT" graph that the place has taken off! What is the reason for his deep enmity towards me and his ruthless, relentless war that has waged out all these years against me? The reason is, I uncovered him and I took all this to justice. We have said, therefore, that this document is not mine. It's the finding of the mixed stadium which, what I've denounced all years and I've done it, has proved it. And right now he's in some justice drawer at the interrogation stage. It shows, therefore, that companies of interests of Kurtakis are: ‘LATI AND PIPERI’, ‘apospasma.gr’, ‘healthpro.gr’, ‘moneypro.gr’, ‘PARA A SERVICES OF LEVEL’, ‘Parapolitikaradio.gr’ and the newspaper ‘Parapolistika’. Also, the publications "ENVENUE S.A.", the newspaper "ENVENUE", as well as the one we made public, and then no one spoke, that is, "VELONA AND CLOSIS". It was Kourtakis' too! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We are talking about "VELONA AND CLOSAT", about the promotion of the actions of the CEDEFOP, what took 50,000 euros and closed the course for a needle. He had five, six postings with some artifacts. How's it going? It was Kourtakis' too! I'm saying this as proof that what I'm going to say below is him. And I'm not saying it. It's called the mixed control step. One - zero! I shall then submit all the relevant documents. Here I have from the General Accounting Office of the State - not Polakis, but the General Accounting Office of the State - the sums received by these companies for 2014 only. They got caught and "squeezed" and some in 2015, they got respectively with them here in 2013. "PARA NA" took EUR 190.946, "HEALTH PRO" 177.252 euros, "MONEY PRO" EUR 137.877, "APOSPASMA" EUR 118.183 euros, the newspaper "PARAPOLITICA" took EUR 59.880, the "ALATI AND PEPERI" took EUR 177.238. In here, in the General Accounting Office of the State, there was no "VELONA AND CLOSIT" and something else. Is that right? There was no such thing. They're being added. This is about one million in 2014 alone. It was so much in 2013 and they caught and grabbed in 2015 a couple hundred thousand. How did he get these now? How did he take it? To see how you consumed public money and how you made the offshore that controlled the media. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So here's how he got it. Here are the contracts. All of this has been filed with the prosecutors, etc. On 13-10-2013, there is a CERIC contract with ‘A SERVICES A DISTRIBUTION SERVICES FOR MEASURES’. With 14,400 euros plus VAT - it was up to 18,000 euros - they will undertake to publish the 'PARAPOLITIC' diplines an entry on 'Poliomyelitis in Syria'. That's why he took 18,000 euros! That's how the money gets together! That's the one. I'll testify to that, too. Second, on 24-5-2013 the same thing, i.e. publish a bipple entry on the theme “The work of the National Archive of Neoplasms”. That's where he got eighteen grand. I would remind those who do not remember that the work of the National Archive of Neoplasms was an excel page which said what the distribution, pared and unwritten by the Greek Statistical Office was. This is the 2,000,000 of the 2008-2009 anti-cancer fundraiser Mr. Avramopoulos gave. "We have eaten it, we have given the "Parapolistics" 18,000 euros to tell us what nice we made the card excel!" I'll testify to that, too. On 12-12-2013, there was a corresponding thing about the actions of the CCRP for hospital infections. Now let's go to some nicer, go to the banners. On 16-1-2014, 16,000 euros were given to the world-wide site healthpro.gr for one month to have the banner. And the healthpro.gr is in the six hundred thousand position of Google's tool, where it's ranking!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u284	Mr. Colleague, you've been talking for twenty minutes already. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u285	I shall be brief, Mr President. We are now going to the 'Parapolistics'. Watch out now: In the "PARAPOLITA" that are more readable, it gave them 5,500 per month. Monthly contract of 16,500 grand! The other one that Mom doesn't know was giving him 16,000 euros a month! In the 'Parapolistics' - because that's where they might have seen it - it went 5,500 euros! These are normally EUR 300 for one month. We've got the bouquets, too. Then we have different dates. On 3-2-2014, without telling what the matter will be, fourteen grand again. Every month, boy, a check was cut. Every month, a check was cut! Wait till I find the other "world-famous"! "ALATI AND PIPERI" took 16,000 euros for banner in February 2014, "MONEY PRO" also for a post took 16,000 euros. ‘MONEY PRO’. Is that right? The banner of CEDEFOP 16,000 euros! That's a great action for public health, isn't it? The “ALATI AND PIPERI” took back 16,000 euros in February 2014. Also, the "PARAPOLICA" were again granted another 16 thousand for three months. The "Parapolistics" gave 16 grand in the quarter, while the others, in the entirely "male", which was purely political money laundering, gave 16 grand a month! And I come to the other site on the 'apospasma gr' - you've seen it, five, six million posts, I don't know what - which, on 28-4-2014 - has more of it - took 16,000 euros a month! I will also put these before you - they have gone to justice - in a good way!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u286	Mr Colleague, please, you must conclude because we must grant the Chamber for another sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u287	That's why Kurtakis is attacking me. Mr President, the apology and the defendant and the defendant and the criminal have the right to apologize.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u288	Yes, Mr Polakis, but here we are not considering the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u289	So, what are the methods that got into his attempt...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u290	Mr. Polakis, you don't say what you did for the charge. Tell us about the charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u291	Patience, Mr President, is coming! What, then, are the manner in which he tried to exterminate me as a politician and as a person, I mean as a person? Innumerable! From his booklet and from his Twitter account he made daily attacks on my face, not politics - those I would accept, as I have accepted many - but personally of the worst kind. MILLAN, Vice-President of the Commission. — Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by And as close as the 2019 National Elections approached, the attacks and vulgarities increased, escalated and climbed a level. It is no longer enough in the usual hybrid designations that almost every day against me, such as "nature", "fakeman", "policy anchor", "funny" etc., but it had washed him cold sweat that if I were re-elected and if SYRIZA was re-elected, he would not escape. He knew well I wouldn't let everything he had done with the CDC. The hundreds of thousands of euros that he took in opaque procedures for virtual service would have led him, as they already lead him, with mathematical accuracy in the defendant's post, and of course he feared that I as a parliamentarian would follow the procedure closely. And here he accuses me of muddling him when I say he did anything to not be elected, what I said last year. I said he and some supermarmals down there threw mud and money to get New Democracy to Chania first, and I didn't get a MP. I would therefore like to go on to say that "Venezel Chania's shameful behaviour with the trumpet of Polakis, the political front and the newly left of the hybrids". He also catches Tsipras in his mouth: "Polakis without mustache, the outgoing Tsipras". A four-page tribute: "Work and days of a hybrid minister". These are all elections in February - March 2019. Lies, "coordinator took over", "nothing has been done with the destruction that had been done", which in three months came to an estimated EUR 110 million in Chania with the naturality that had been done, and all over Crete. ‘Paul Polakis' shipwreck’. "The loan took it to finance its seat in the second Athens or in the second Piraeus". "Korporal ministers stay out of parliament." I'm high - high. "Wherever he leaves - he leaves Chania, he goes to the second Piraeus". And then it didn't go to war! "Travel in Chania, sit in business," he is corrected by another, "He sat back," he says why he doesn't go with the rich. "After rapidly for Polakis from Chania. The political shame of Crete was denounced". "Vedetta," says something fantastic, that I saw a guy down there, and I left, he says, and I'm not a lad. Attack then and with Kyburopoulos endless. "Tsipras will be led to the scapegoat and said to him, "and to the wretched Polakis." Just before the election: "It has nothing to do with our culture, it embarrasss Cretans as Cretans". And then I catch the fisherman and my wife in his mouth, on 26-4-2019, "He was fired because of Paul" for a nurse at the clinic my wife works, who was fired for reasons, than I learned afterwards, and he makes a story that he was fired because he shared a post against me. Such mud, which was reproduced in local media too, down. "Tsipras, a Polakis with a lust", "Customs and Paul Paulakis". After "Supervisory attacks by government officials in Paulis for his innocence," that they do not well want me from SYRIZA. "Other me" of Alexis Paul." "The tenant he used shows that it is nothing from a glazed Paulakis." "Polakis will lose in Sfakia." 'You will be persuaded by the citizens.' "Palakis is a trumpet and promotes the political underworld." "Betty vs. courtesy, he fought them because they left Tsipras alone after the Euro-elections and why they took Polakis out of the front." That's scientific fiction scripts! "How SYRIZA collapsed." "Showed Paulakis, the victory of the ND has been locked." 'Unrepentant of Paulakis'. And we're going to the other way to the election: "Polakis is hitting, Stathakis is coming up." Poor guy caught Kurtakis for Stathakis! Here, which was reproduced by all local media, "Second with a difference between Paulakis in Chania", on June 26, this one. And a lot more. I can talk about too much. He continues after the elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u292	Come on, Mr. Polakis, you're talking twenty-eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u293	It's all right, Mr. President. The defendant has the right to apologize.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u294	All right, I know that Members are sensitive, but in any case there is the Rules of Procedure. Let's go in half an hour now, that's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u295	It has never been interrupted by a Member who is apologizing. It has never been interrupted and you have already interrupted me twice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u296	I'm making a recommendation. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u297	Mr. Kourtakis continues after the elections. "Palakis always has a Kammenos next to him." Now listen, because that's what I'm gonna say and I'm gonna finish. Because since then he's been writing every day, he's been trying to tell me that I pushed out the private security workshop from CDC to tell me that I did a scandal! I did a CDC scandal, like a diversion! They're continuing after that. And this front page of punctuality, which concerns the wife of the former Prime Minister, "in love with Polakis's mind Betty Baziana, puts back on him to keep him in his place". He's arrived at such levels of punctuality! That's when I met him on the plane and said to him: "Get him, you disgraceful, what are you writing, that's not journalism." [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The same ones, of course, exactly - here are - the ones he published are copies of a series of sites and brochures of Chania, which take and copy, "Paris of Crete", something "City of the city" and it doesn't fit, something ridiculous, that has me with a picture of "Learn art and leave it", you will need," "You will lose your money in trials" etc., all that I read before they are reproduced and in a series of local media. Take this as proof of the reason for the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u298	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague, you speak half an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u299	Don't interrupt me again, Mr. President, I have an erection in my mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u300	I don't want to interrupt, but it's another case and then they need the Hall. If a journalist did anything, he could have been sued.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u301	I shall conclude, Mr President, don't worry. Unfortunately, however, despite all this effort, which I think proves to be, unfortunately, for Kurtakis and his friends, the final judge is always the people. Despite the valuable effort of the same and plus those of extinct me from the political landscape, the citizens of Chania honoured me with their vote, bringing me first to a cross of preference for SYRIZA and SYRIZA first in Chania, despite the struggling effort you have shown since Mrs Bakoyannis came down as a candidate. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Unfortunately, for Kurtakis and his friends, the fifteen thousand three hundred ninety-six crosses I have taken will honor them up to the last. Unfortunately, also for Kurtakis and his friends - and I prove this every day - I will continue with any powers and possibilities I have, and now institutionally since yesterday, to make public any attempt to break up public money is my idea. And in the past four and five months, we have achieved a great deal for both Mr Mitarakis and Mrs Nicholas, and for Mr Pierrakakis, and for Mr Chrysochoidis, for both the State Secretarys and the Ministry of Health, who have started a huge party with direct assignments due to a coronary, all coming out with evidence rather than generally. That is exactly what I said at this step on 31 July 2019, that despite the mudology against me the citizens of Chania were neither affected nor manipulated by mudology and voted for me. Yeah, I said about money. Not that they paid voters not to vote for me, but that there were many banks and many synergies and a lot of use of all these money taken from the CEDEFOP to finance and support local resources. In these banks were dominated by two things, firstly, that SYRIZA should not be a first party and that the Polakis MP should not be elected. These are known to those attending Jerusalem. I conclude my speech with the following. I know that after my re-election, new methods are being worked out. I also know about a lawsuit filed. Everything you've done with "NOVARTIS", you're trying to clean up both the CEDEFOP gang and a new special court that you want to set up. You want to humiliate me so I won't bother you. This was where they started before the election. You have set up a pipeline industry against me, through which some have sought to show me as a sykophant and to exterminate me financially. They've been filed - my lawyer can't stand trial - fifteen. Today, I'm telling you, after six months, they're being filed. Because they obviously learned that despite what their brochures say about the fifteen actions that I have been filed with, there has been no decision to accept the Rules of Procedure - there is only one decision, that I had the intention of extinguishing - they have now returned to the press, hoping that the majority Members will do them the favour and violate Parliament's Rules, first sending to a penal court for the first time what he said from the Step forward of Parliament and which, as I have shown, were directly involved, not only in his own political activity, but in general in the way of conducting politics in the country. However, to those who strike these plans, I would remind them of two - three things. What Gandhi said is that at first they ignore you, then they lick you, then they fight you and then the winners. So far we've seen the first two stages. Now we see the third. It's not gonna take the fourth time. I will tell you something else, two more paragraphs, Mr President. I read recently - and it suits me this - from Michael the Army - you know him, PASOK's director, who was the newspaper director of Thessaloniki - a terrible post he did, which said: "The best teachers in my life were the bad guys, the crooks, the misanguists, the bimbos, the ungrateful, the god-boys, the thieves, the thieves, the liars, the liars, the patriots, the patriots, the unscrupulous, the hypocrites, the whiskers, the savages, the liars, the liars, the loots and the dishonest ones. I owe them what I have not been in my life." And I am not one of the things Michalis the Army described and I also know that "I have always said that the wind strikes, which is why I have never complained." And you should know another thing that Kazantzidis had said with his incomparable voice - a song is - that "we will not sneeze either our eyes or our mouths." I'll have you hear it. [[This point reproduces an extract from the above-mentioned strap]] You die and not me. Be well. Vote now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u302	I would remind you, apart from the present cases, that, of course, when a Member is asked to waive immunity, it is a delicate matter relating to his moral status, and so on. Of course, the last judge is the judge. However, the House does not consider the substance of the case to be a case under the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. That's what used to be. He criticised the legislature that we covered MPs. I'm not talking about today's affairs. The constitutional legislature came - with a large majority, except for a party that had some reservations about the amendment of Articles 61 and 62 of the Constitution - and limited and said that everyone would be referred, unless the complaint concerns the expression of opinion or vote. It's over and out. I understand everything else, but it's a matter of substance, which is subject to the judgement of the courts. Is there a colleague who wants to talk about this case?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u303	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u304	Here you go, Mrs. Vaguea.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u305	Mr President, I would like to contribute to what Mr Paulakis said about banners, advertising on the websites of Mr Kurtakis, which we see as being about EUR 16 000 per month. I would like to say to you that similar banners - to have this element of comparison - are putting us as theatrical businesses on very important sites, such as the 'BHMA', which have huge traffic. It's about 80 euros a month. This is for comparison.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u306	All right, but the Member speaking, talking about the case, about the charge. If a citizen has made a complaint, and much more if a journalist violates journalist ethics, he should go and sit accused.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u307	Mr President, in a minute he told the truth! Do you mind the truth?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u308	You saw that all the Members of Parliament were at ease of speech and we didn't interrupt anyone. And that was the tradition of the House, with the previous President and the previous Presidents, and that was the line, which we now say at the Conference of Presidents, that there should be a tolerance of immunity. In any case, however, we should also be on the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u309	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u310	Here you go, Mr. Levane. About the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u311	Of course. Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u312	Please limit the charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u313	I wanted and was prepared to put forward a report on the procedure, in accordance with Article 61 of the Constitution, in which Mr Polakis' immunity comes, and to put his position that there is a political persecution here and to break down that view. I also considered that I had to take the floor to put Mr Polakis in his place in relation to all these inaccurate inaccuracies, which he once again launched against his political opponents - I mean New Democracy when he was in the government. I would simply remind you that no finding has come out of any of these accusations which it throws as mud in the fan and one of them is now judged by the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u314	May I interrupt, Mr. Levane.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u315	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u316	You'll hear me first. He qualifies for the apology - not to say a defendant - every Member of Parliament who speaks. To defend himself, he can exceed measure. This is not, however, legalising any other member to counter what he has said to defend himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u317	I don't contradict what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u318	On the substance, if you want to say, say. But that's not a substance. As I said, Mr. Paulakis, if what he said is well founded, let him sue Kurtakis. So please limit yourself to the charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u319	You realise - and I am sorry you have made this intervention - that it is my job when we are accused of giving the floor. In order not to get away, however, I would like to say something very simple and to close: after the vicious closure of Mr Polakis, which shows exactly how much Parliament and the Greek people are respecting, especially these critical times, I think none of us has anything to add. Let us all vote with our consciences and, of course, those who cover Mr Polakis once again will have the full responsibility for being the same as him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u320	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u321	Here you go, Mr. Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u322	It is obvious, Mr President, that I would not ask for the floor, and I imagine that no one would ever do that, but you cannot react to this absolute institutional inconsistency that the New Democracy has done a moment ago, not respecting the most sacred right that the last Greek citizen can have, that is to say, the possibility of saying what he is accused of and when he is a Member of the European Parliament and because he has told his political opinion in Parliament to be referred to court. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In fact, the press argues that everything he has said is lame because there are no findings. Yes, there are no findings in Greece of the New Democracy, but there are findings in the United States about what Mr Paulakis has said!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u323	Mr. Ragossi, don't get into this. Of course the parliamentary representative when a political party is offended, either directly or indirectly, may respond to decency. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u324	Mr President, do not answer because we will answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u325	But, on the other hand, there must be a tolerance so that one can answer to defend one's prolongation when the speaker exceeds the measure. What can I tell you now? I should like to refer to Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure, which stipulates that, once the measure has been exceeded, it is legal and anyone else to go beyond it. Read article 66 to see them. We're entering Mr. Vagiona's case. He asked Mr Philosophy earlier why Mr Vagionas is being indicted and we have to say all the charges. A journalist in his homeland, Mr. Vayonas, was convicted of being inaccurate, in the opinion of Mr. Vayonas. Mr. Bagionas filed an action for damages to his personality, and then the journalist sued him that Mr. Bagionas had slandered him and that the witness examined in the political court was false and that he was a moral self-defense in this wrongdoing. That's the charges. Mr Bagiona, you have the floor and you have the floor for five minutes, of course, with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u326	I will not follow Mr. Polakis' time. I shall be very brief, but I shall submit to the Minutes of the House all that has to do with a piece of what the President said. I have asked the Ethics Committee to take a unanimous decision, if possible, to waive my immunity. I shall make the same appeal to this House to waive my immunity, to go to court. In my life, I have sued, not sues, to five journalists. The first decision was convicted. The reporter apologized to me, and I gave him the money. The second four-digit number of euros was tried, but I did not give it to him because he did not apologize. The third was also condemned by a five-digit number, there were gods and demons to give it to him. I didn't give it to him, but anyway, I got it from him. The fourth relates to the television of 'BERGINA' and Mr Caligeros. What do I have to do with it now? I have absolutely nothing to do with it. But he has a child for part of the time of "VERGINA". So "VERGINA" was founded twenty-five years ago and a few years ago. He was a 20% shareholder in this company and my daughter. In 2004, when I became a MP, there was a reputation with the main shareholder and other things, that a MP or first degree relative may be removed from the post. So my first job was to convince my daughter that her share has to be sold and sold before it even became the law. Mr. Goodness, when does he show up in my life? Presented in 2015, I am uprooted towards my political office. Witnesses all the political office in Polygirl of Halkidiki, that I'll show him, make him, destroy him. In any case, I say give my phone to Mr Kaloger to call me. He really called me towards the end of 2016. I had three meetings with him in Great Britain for coffee. The first time he protested that my partner, a major shareholder, was not treating him well. What am I supposed to do about my partner? And he tells me: "Do you know how much Vergin was sold to me?" "I don't know, tell me." How should I know? I have forgotten the TV of "VERGINA" since 2004. ‘EUR 700,000’. I say 'Get me some samples, some paper, some indication that we really sold 'Verginia' 700,000'. It tells me "How much share do you have?" It was 16 million drachmas, not me, my daughter. Anyway, it was sold. We got the money back. We didn't get a profit. So the seven hundred grand forgot it. 'I want you to come to TV'. I was really going. I say to him, "But there are no money, Mr. Calige, there are no. Let it go. They say a lot." And I really do ask anyone who wants to see my first tax statement of 2004 and the 2020 tax declaration. It's not even 20% of the original. That is what I said, but I will give you a sample of what has actually been done. And I've got transcripted broadcasts "Concerning topicality", Mr. Kalogiros on every broadcast for tens and twelve minutes, the last year before the elections on 7-7-2019. And if you don't think so, I've done two treatments to him. The first lawsuit was avenged to Polygirl, decided and published in Polygirl at its audience and at an extraordinary public meeting on 3 March 2020. However, the judgment under number 54/2020 in the Halkidiki Monomele Court was postponed because the defendant, Kaloger Stergios, did not submit his solemn representation to his attorney. And yet the decision has not been given. Legal terrestrials. The second treatment I've had was for a record show on 7-5-2018 and her repetition on 11-5-2018. Another show on 26-11-2018, recording the show. The following day 27-11-2018 Mr. Kaloger filed a complaint with George Vagiona and Apostolos Tziritis. On the 26-11-2018 show Mr. Stergios Kalogeros: "Mr Vagios will be invited here to come and tell us if he wants to go back and of course he will be asked about all of this and about the time when Mr Vagionas says so publicly, without having anything personal against him, "and he was a shareholder in a television station himself or through the wife." The whole thing's gonna put it in. "Why, Mr Bagiona, I ask you directly on this show, Mr. MEP of the New Democracy, not to say that we insult you and the question is directly and publicly. Because, Mister, when you had shares at the TV station of Thessaloniki, your wife, the daughter wants to say, "she had 25% of the shares, Mr Vayonas".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u327	Is this about the substance of the case?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u328	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u329	Keep going, I'm not interrupting you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u330	These are things that colleagues need to hear, so that younger people can learn and remember.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u331	Keep going, I'm not interrupting you. I'll give you as much time as it takes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u332	But this one on 18-6-2019, twenty days before the election, listen again to what Mr. Kaloger says. "I'll get out, that is, not all of us, and I'll publish the name." He's published it twice, now he's re-publishing it! 'The money owed by the Member to the public.' Neither a euro is owed by the Member or by the businesses of his children. "How many times has he stole the public, who has employees and workers worked on weekends. Member of the Greek Parliament and wants to return as a Member. This congressman thinks he's got money and he's spreading money. However, because we have a duty towards the society that is elected and in Greece, we will make all the information about this MP, and indeed, Mr Duscass, he has a partner with Daska, "to invite him in public and in writing to attend." He never did. But he gave a message. But for the second action I made at the Court of First Instance of Thessaloniki, Mr. Kaloger was convicted of paying 5,000 euros and the TV "VERGINA" itself. On this show, however, I would like to say that Mr Kalogiros is a lot of what he has said, but it is not enough time to say more. I will not pass the tenth, Mr President. I will submit everything to the House because it must at least be known by the journalists when they want to contact a parliamentarian to get a phone call to know the truth. And if she doesn't tell them the truth, she can do whatever she wants. But, personally, to anyone who touches my dignity that I owe the public, that I do three hundred lambs and various other things, that I pay their ENPIA, that I pay a paradox to pay traffic fees, I say that these things are not serious. I would therefore ask you to give me the opportunity to go to court without immunity, also to testify to these and many others that are in here. However, I am presenting this to the Minutes of Parliament if they are of interest to anyone. Thank you very much and I want my immunity to be lifted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u333	Is there a colleague in this case asking for the floor? There's no colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to point out that the vote includes three cases of the removal of immunity from Members, as mentioned at the outset. Every time on the screen a case appears to be voted on. To show the next or the previous one, press the arrow on the right or left side of the screen respectively. Make sure you've voted for all cases of waiver of immunity. After you have registered your vote, you may check it or even revise it by the end of the vote. For any question, please address the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. As we said at the outset and agreed by the House, the system will remain open for fifteen more minutes, i.e. until 13.35 and the Members at the Infantry, etc. Sooner or later, they will come, but there will be no crowding, so that we can follow health measures. Please, open up the electronic voting system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u334	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters from my fellow Members have been sent to the Bureau. Istanbul Barkas, Konstantinos Zouraris and Sunday Malamas who will not be present in today's roll-call vote and know us by letter their intention of voting. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the electronic counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u335	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u336	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of an electronic roll-call vote on applications for waiver of immunity from Members. On the first case of Mr Vassiliou - Peter Spaniaki, a total of 167 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 160 Members voted. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents 2 Members voted in favour of the motion for a resolution The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted by a majority. A total of 165 Members voted on the second case by Mr Pavlos Polakis. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 80 Members voted. On the question of immunity, 84 Members voted against it. Vote "PARTS" 1 Member. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected by a majority. On the third case by Mr Georgios Vagiona, they voted for a total of 166 Members. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 159 Members voted. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents They voted for 2 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted by a majority. The result of the roll-call vote is recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u337	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-10-S1-commons.u338	With the consent of this House at 13:47 the sitting is closed for tomorrow morning 11 September 2020 at 9.00 a.m. on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
