ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We shall begin with a report from the President-in-Office of the sitting - I, that is - on the World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. In fact, starting with, I would like to refer to this World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. The UN General Assembly on 17 December 1999 declared itself the World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women on 25 November 1999 to raise a major problem, with a global dimension. This day had already been established by women's organizations since 1981 in memory of the terrible murder on November 25, 1960, of the three Mirabal brothers, of political races by the Dominican Republic, by order of the dictator Trohilo. Unfortunately, this day is coming to remind us of the violence which one of three women in the world accepts and the main forms of this violence are verbal, sexual, psychological violence and physical abuse. It is particularly worrying that violence against women is a universal phenomenon, which does not discriminate at an age, education, social, economic, national, religious and linguistic level. I note, on the basis of official investigations, that the percentages are particularly high in civilised Northern Europe. Unfortunately, all women are equal to any form of violence that they may suffer at some point in their lives. Women's gender receives this uncontrolled phenomenon, which, however, we all and everyone can prevent by helping - to the extent that each of us - individually and collectively, at a time when, in the midst of pandemic and mandatory lockdowns, the percentages of women who receive such phenomena are increasing, while the margins of their reaction are falling. For some women even their home is not a safe place. Already since the first lockdown, however, a special warning mechanism has been introduced in pharmacies with the code "Maska-19", which the victims should use and should not be afraid to use. At the same time, the S.O.S. telephone line continues to function. "15900" by the General Secretariat of Family and Gender Equality with slogans: "We live in the house, but we do not remain silent", "We live home does not mean endure violence", "You are not alone, you are not the only one". Let us not forget that violence against women is a violation of human rights. The action and the reaction of all of us is the key to the fight against violence. Silence and tolerance are complicity. Dynamic resistance is the ideal response to eliminate the phenomenon. At the same time, today we Greeks are celebrating the Day of the National Resistance against the forces of occupation 1941-1944 against Nazism and fascism, one of the most brilliant pages of our modern history. It is a celebration of national memory, which teaches us that when the Greeks are united, they are magnifying, which proved to be abundant by the expansion of the Gogopotamos railway bridge on November 25, 1942. The united victory of Gorgopotamos remains within us as a great political legacy, what today constitutes our debt to the nation, which is respect for our country, the struggle for freedom, progress, uplift, rebirth, national and social. This lesson must be remembered today, considering the historical responsibilities and heavy inheritance we carry. The importance of today's anniversary is linked to the modern need for confrontation, joint action, unity and responsibility for dealing with all the difficulties that our society is going through. And I close my brief report with a verse of Kostis Palamas: "We owe to those who came, they pass, they will come, they will pass. Judges will be tried by the unborn, the dead." Thank you very much for your attention. Ladies and gentlemen, following the meeting, please beg the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: 'Recommendation, operation and responsibilities of the Civil Aviation Authority, regulation of civil aviation issues and other provisions of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport'. I also have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 27 November 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 173/18-11-2020 of the New Democracy MP, Spilios Levanou, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on "Re-establishment of the Department for the Management of the Cultural Environment and New Technologies in Agrinio". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 188/23-11-2020 topical question by MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Balafa, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The delay in relaunching work of the Palaio Faliro walker". 3. The question by No 172/17-11-2020 of the Member of the Eitolokarnania Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Evolutions in the establishment of the Department for the Management of the Cultural Environment and New Technologies of the University of Patras based in Agrini". 4. The 192/23-11-2020 topical question by MP MEP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on "The continuation of the operation of special schools in the middle of a pandemic". 5. The 183/22-11-2020 topical question by MP B2' West Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Direct concession of an old S.A. train station - Kamaterou to the public without rent". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 191/23-11-2020 topical question by MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Moussala, Minister for Culture and Sport, on "The Need for bookshops to stay open during the second lockdown". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 174/18-11-2020 of the Deputy Drama of the Change Movement Mr.Charulas (Haras) Kefalidou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Without tablets and technological equipment, thousands of students remain out of teleworking." 3. The 193/23-11-2020 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The protection of the historic place of Cantanos P.E. Chania and the dangers of the extension of the quartz zone to the region.’ 4. The 176/19-11-2020 topical question by the Member of the Ilias of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: "The digital delay of the country undermines the citizens and the economy." 5. The question asked by MP Rodopi of Change Movement Ilhan Ahmet to the Minister of Digital Governance, on "The Greeks pay dearly for the use of mobile data".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In his letter of 25 November 2020, the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House: "We hereby inform you of the topical and urgent questions in connection with parliamentary scrutiny on Wednesday 25 November 2020 that the topical questions to be discussed are as follows: 185/23-11-2020, a topical question and number 527/109/14-10-20, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Fotinis Arabajis. O Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs Stylianos - Ioannis Koutnajis". We will begin with the first with the number 185/23-11-2020 time-consuming question of the first cycle of the Hercules MP of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Do not be excluded from the exceptional support for olive oil, which was particularly affected by the pandemic'. Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Very important today. Your reference to celebrating the unified National Resistance should lead all Greeks and especially us politicians and, above all, the government to reconvene us in relation to the national understanding that is particularly necessary in difficult circumstances, such as this period of pandemic and at the same time Turkish aggression. An important day, established by the UN and the fight against violence against women, which was described as a form of global pandemic by the UN Secretary-General. All of us must make a legislative contribution, politically, to eradicating, changing this reality and, more generally, to eliminating violence. Madam Minister, the damage suffered by oil producers in previous years because of other reasons is well known and will be the subject of another question, another debate. Today what I want to talk about and get answers, to inform the producers, is what is envisaged by the decision to grant aid, to what extent and to what scope there are, firstly, to improve this decision and, secondly, to extend the possibility of compensation, support, to all the producers affected. In particular, the decision only mentions the main occupational farmers. There is one problem here which concerns who are regarded as the principal occupation of farmers. Secondly, it is a question of who have received the certificate that they are mostly agricultural professionals, given that the system was not working lately. The third is whether small producers who receive a subsidy of less than EUR 5,000 and who have an income of less than EUR 15 000, who are regarded as a special scheme, if all - without exception - are among the beneficiaries and, of course, if they are among the large majority of the oil producers who, for various reasons, are heterogeneous and do not fulfil the requirements of the bureaucratic characterisation 'in the main occupation of a farmer' or the real characterisation, because they also have another income from other activities. We therefore want to know the Ministry's intentions in addressing this problem and in calling for all the olive producers in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to say that today is a very important day for the reasons you have mentioned, Mr President, and I, as a woman, attach particular importance to the introduction of this day for the elimination of violence against women, which, unfortunately, nowadays occurs in a variety of ways. In fact, today the Prime Minister will have a very interesting online debate on the subject with the respective structure of the New Democracy Party. I now come to the reply of my colleague. Mr Colleagues, I do not think you are questioned - because you see the objective, let us say this, of opposition which you are exercising through parliamentary control - that this is the first time that the olive-producing sector is being strengthened in this country. And I do not think you should question that the money we give, namely EUR 126,300,000 from the well-known 'Measure 21', is the ceiling on the possibilities provided by the European Regulation and the total amount available to us by the Rural Development Programme, by making use of the relevant amendment to Regulation 1305/2013 in order to use its remaining allocations to deal with the consequences of the pandemic. So what did we do, Mr. Comrade? We amended our PAA, submitted the proposal on 16-10, approved by the European Commission on 10-11 and three days later, on 13-11, this invitation was published. The whole amount available to our country - 2% of the contribution of the European Agricultural Fund to the PAA in each Member State - has been chosen by this government and the political leadership, Mr Vorides, to put it in the basket to support olive production. Therefore, while carefully reading your timely question, the document, I cannot understand why you are talking about an unjust and problematic government decision. You claim that the amount is not enough for everyone, that it is a bit. The answer, Mr President, is that it is the total amount - not all in the sense of the country's financial resources to support the primary sector, which, as you can see, is neither unreserved nor endless - is the total amount that we are entitled to and which we can, on the basis of the European Regulation, give. You are also saying that it is not for all producers, it is for the principal professions. In fact, Mr President, this is about a political choice, because you realise that, if the olive-growing heterogeneous professionals enter this decision, the aid would be half and below and I am talking about area support. And, secondly, it is a political choice and a Community direction, because we currently compensate for the damage that has been done by the coronary, and we choose with our available economic potential, which I have mentioned, to support productive farms, namely those who lose income, those who have no other source of income and we naturally want them to continue to grow, of course continue to be bio-income. So you realise that non-professional farmers have other incomes. For example, a heterogeneous oil producer may be a public employee, may be a freelance professional of another specialty, may be a retired person and his other principal income may not be affected by the coronary or, if affected, have received aid from the government measures that have been taken. In your question you also make a reference to the matter of the deadline for ten days. As I said before, from the day that was adopted by the European Commission, namely on 10 November, in three days' time, at a rapid pace, we issued this call. We want to pay people by 31 December. But, Mr President, I do not see any problem in submitting applications, because, on the basis of yesterday's information from OPEKEPE, ninety-nine thousand ninety-five permanent declarations have already been made in a total of forty-four thousand six hundred fifty and a requested amount of 93,190,000. In other words, since 126,300,000, ninety have been submitted to date, with an average of ten thousand declarations a day, and that does not mean that there were no days with seventeen thousand declarations. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You also make a reference to the differentiation of the area allowance and the difference between one category and another. If you have, in other words, up to ten acres, you get, for example, 300 euros, while, if you have eleven acres, that amount is growing. I understand your point of view, Mr Colleague, and it is reasonable, as formulated. However, this is the requirement of the European Rules of Procedure in its transitional form that we must respect. It therefore calls for - here is the text of the regulation - an area of classification based on production capacity. So we have to work in a reasonable way, but also at the same time legally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u7	Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, this is the first time that there is a coronary, so there is the first time that there is a need for compensation to producers because of a coronary. As far as the damage from previous years and in particular the last three years in olive oil production is concerned, we are still waiting for the famous dossier to be submitted or its evaluation and its results. So you owe answers before. But let us focus on this decision. This decision therefore says that 126 million are available. First of all, there was the possibility - the European Union gave it - to reallocate funds within the NSRP, within the CFP and within the Rural Development Programme. So this reasoning and excuse does not exist if there was the political will to give more money. Secondly, you have chosen, as you quite rightly said, to include only a hundred forty - four thousand of the five hundred sixty thousand olive growers in the theoretical decision. That is your political decision. We say, therefore, that this political decision suffers, because for the hundreds of four thousand people considered to be chiefly professional farmers there is an issue with the application but also with the assurance that they are mostly farmers. The fact that so far ninety thousand applications have been lodged and finalized does not ensure that in the next two days we will have a hundred forty-four thousand. That is a matter. The third issue concerns small producers who, under the legislation of the Greek state, have joined the special scheme, namely a subsidy of less than EUR 5,000 and an income of less than EUR 15 000. Are they beneficiaries? Your decision does not clarify it. The big thing, of course, is that you have not guaranteed the specific resources needed to integrate all the olive producers, and the five hundred and sixty thousand. This, therefore, relates to the damage suffered by the coronary pandemic in olive oil in their income from olive oil, which is to be compensated, is entitled to compensation. And the state must find ways to compensate them. For example, we have an answer from the Ministry of Finance that it has allocated you EUR 150 million in addition to the Rural Development Programme to support producers. Of course, this amount could be higher. The agricultural sector is the poor relative to the government. If you had made sure that the corresponding codes were to be considered affected, there could be other measures to include the oil producers. But there is a huge issue here. So let us concentrate on this question: will you first ensure that the hundred and forty-four thousand enter? Will you ensure that all small producers, with a subsidy of less than EUR 5,000 and an income of less than EUR 15 000, are beneficiaries of the compensation? Will you find money and with your newer decision, without disrupting the process that has already begun, compensate oil producers who are not considered to be the principal producer of oil? These are the questions. Now if EUR 300 and EUR 600 are a regulation of the European Union, that is something you will say that it evades your responsibilities and capabilities. But all the rest is in your responsibilities. I do not ask you to change the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to take decisions here as Greek Government, as the Ministry of Rural Development of our country to support oil producers, without exceptions and without losing any right to do so either because the CEPYEL did not function and did not obtain the certificate of the principal farmer's profession or because the system did not work to submit the application. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u9	Here, Mrs. Undersecretary, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u10	Mr Colleague, because you started your second-guessing by saying that we should make the reallocation of funds to the PAA, I repeat: the PAA, as you know, has had and has a high absorption rate, which has accelerated the improvements from the day of our government's withdrawal and the available amount left to be given as an aid to address the consequences of the pandemic, is what I described to you in my prototype and is not questioned. I repeat, the political leadership of our Ministry has chosen to be given to a very dynamic sector such as olive production. It has therefore been exhausted, we have reached the ceiling of the possibility, in relation to the available rural development programme. Secondly, you said about the EUR 150 million which, as you know, the Prime Minister and from the step of the Thessaloniki International Fair said that it is the money which, in the first phase, and depending on the evolution of the consequences of the pandemic, has as state aid money in the provisional framework applicable to the coronary, to deal with the consequences of the pandemic on a number of primary sectors. I cannot imagine that these EUR 150 million have already been paid to the sheep and goat farmers and that the cereals and cotton of Evros, glasshouses in Crete, grassland producers and asparagus have been given to them. They have been given by other measures, and indeed by exhausting the possibilities for green harvesting and crisis distillation. So you realise that there is a holistic approach to the consequences, but in an objective, prudent and predictive way, Mr President, because we are already in the second - most severe, unfortunately - wave of the coronary pandemic and we are managing money which must be attributed to the people affected in the most objective and fair way. Because you insist on the question of whether farmers will be able to submit applications, I will keep and repeat the information. On the basis of the information we have, then, ninety thousand of the total forty - four thousand, Mr. I think that at the same rate today Wednesday, tomorrow and on Friday, which is the end date, producers will be moving and the number of beneficiaries will actually be exhausted. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] If, however, some kind of obstacle is found to the statement of these applications, as you know, as a Ministry, we are always ready in a dynamic and flexible way to deal with things and, if an emergency occurs and have not been included, we will function accordingly. With regard to what you said about the small ones, with the specific income references, I also told you in my prototype - the Minister has said it on several occasions, and not just from the Step forward of this House - that the main agricultural farmers, registered in the MAI, are being strengthened. This is also the case, Mr President, for reasons of speed and flexibility. I think you understand that. Since you have referred to all the measures relating to olive oil, I must say that you must be aware of the fact that they are being given - the relevant decision has been published on 9 November and we expect the invitation - from de minimis state aid on the basis of the provisional framework of EUR 13 162 000 for table olives in Kalamata, on the basis of the request of their interbranch olives and there is no separation by main-professional farmers or not, because in this case it is State aid, that is, the way in which we as a Member State decide and, of course, objectively and documentedly present to the European Commission, so that there is never the possibility of unlawful State aid and what they entail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u11	We continue with the first with number 527/109/14-10-20 questions and requesting the submission of documents by the Member of the Heraklion Movement of Change Mr.Kingarou Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Inadmissible indifference on the damage caused by the restrictive measures to producers of aromatic plants'. Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u12	The people's proverb "did the lent the oil" you know it. In this case, and in its second speech by the State Secretary, she argued in favour of the request by the oil producers to support all of them without exception and additions to the regulation by State aid. It is precisely what we have asked for to apply to olive oil, what the Ministry is promoting for the compensation of edible olives. All producers, without separation, are supported on the basis of the request submitted to the European Union. It was therefore a political choice in terms of olive oil to support only the main industrial farmers, while in terms of olives it was edible for everyone to support them. And right! The second, therefore, is precisely the issue on which we call on the government and have to correct its decision by submitting a supplementary request to the European Union to support oil producers that will not be supported by EUR 126 million through state aid. It is a given, documented and fair. In the agricultural sector we have been told of many millions of accusations. Yes, many categories have already been reinforced on the basis of specific programmes, such as flowering, asparagus, certain categories of greenhouses for other damages. The coronary was too small to pay. The point is that the Ministry operates on a case-by-case basis. In other words, it did not make a decision on the basis of a general logic to say 'those producers, on the basis of the facts, have suffered the damage in question and their production has been reduced and strengthened in this way,' but it works on a case-by-case basis. And I have the characteristic case of producers, aromatic growers, one of the dozen cases that are here, in Attica, and in Crete. This production is therefore directly linked to the focus. It doesn't work at home as much as at professional focus, at hotels. So the damage is huge. No programme has been or has entered their code to have the other protective support measures. Mr President, it is also about your constituency, but it is not about a constituency. It's a matter of reason and justice. Can you tell me why you have excluded from supporting the code, the CAR 1283001? Why don't you join him with the people affected? Why don't you send a letter - if you've sent it to me - the Ministry of Rural Development to the Ministry of Finance and ask that this particular SAR be included in the affected? Don't put any money. I don't want a schedule right now. At this time I ask for a piece of paper - as much as it has a paper, but also a lot of value as it will contain - which will say: 'This CSCE is affected and I would ask him to join the affected, with all that is planned for all people, small businesses and professionals.' That's what I'm asking. Why don't you send the CAR? What right do you separate and say that the flower producer has suffered damage - and of course the decision you made - was correct, but, while the producer of aromatic plants is side by side, you are not sending the CAR either? You didn't put money. In any case, from the EUR 150 million you did not give a minute to this category and it is one of the dozens. So I say here that money may not exist or you do not want to make available - that is your right to the Ministry of Rural Development - or not to give you the finance. The paper that says "please, join this SAR" why don't you send it? That's my simple question. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u13	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u14	First of all, I would like to say that, on the occasion of the two topical questions that we are discussing today, Mr President, he has used the first part of his second time question as a trilogy in his question about olive producers. I beg your pardon, Mr Colleague, but you have said things as data from me that do not apply. You said, that is to say, that we are not making a distinction between the main occupation or not by the main occupation of farmers. We really don't. That's true. You also said to send a dossier back to the Commission to include non-professional farmers as regards the first measure of EUR 126 million. I would like to ask you, Mr Kegeroglu, and I would like you to give an honest answer about this: do you want the main producer of oilseeds, which I repeat, their main income, their productive exploitation is olive, that is, the main profession of farmers, to reduce these 126 million euros available to us? I repeat for the third time or, I do not know, for the fourth time, that it is the ceiling of what we can make available and we have made it all available for olive oil production. Do you want to minimize the amount for main-professional farmers? If you want, say it here at the National Representation. That's the money, Mr. Kegeroglu, which is there. Of course, there is another set of money that will be paid out of the EUR 150 million to deal with all the consequences of the pandemic. We are now coming to what you are supporting for aromatic plants. Mr Colleagues, first of all, the welfare that our Ministry shows in relation to the consequences of the pandemic has not been closed. There has been no 'cutter', as you claim here. It has not even been ruled out, and no one. I'll answer you with documents. You're talking about the very dynamic aromatic plant industry. Indeed, I agree. But I see, Mr President, the documents of our officials here. On 16 November and 20 November I received an answer, on the basis of your relevant question, from the Directorate for Agriculture and Vegetable Products, in which the relevant aromatic plants are included, that there has been no request to strengthen the aromatic plant sector. There's no request. You're wrong, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u15	From you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u16	Not from us. They have not been requested, Mr. Colleague. The leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development has shown, with the assistance of the supervised bodies and all the service actors, that it is following the pandemic crisis in a serious and coherent manner and that any requests are put on the market either through the interbranches or through requests made to the political leadership are considered very seriously and, if, Mr. Colleague, there is damage from the coronary, as required by the European Commission, it is substantiated, justified and sent to the European Commission. For herbs there was no request from the affected, as you mentioned. Therefore, if there is one, Mr Colleague, and if you have a request from the Ministry's services and of course the political leadership, the Secretary-General present, we are at their disposal to speak with them and on the basis of the evidence, if they have been affected by the coronary pandemic, to act in the direction of their rehabilitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Inadmissible Minister's decision. What's he saying? It's not the Ministry of Rural Development, it's the organisations. Take note of the decision of the Minister and of the New Democracy. He does not believe in organisations, but, in order to escape the criminal error and negligence he has shown for specific categories of producers, he comes and tells us 'but there was no request'. Really? Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u19	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u20	I have reported since March on this great category and has been accepted by the Minister here, as has Mr Sculakakis - and from his own knowledge, because he has been dealing with the production of aromatic plants in a sense - that there is a great deal of damage to aromatic plants. The question is why the Ministry of Rural Development has not submitted a proposal for funding. Let go of that! He wants to give the money to another person? Let's give it away. There was someone else. Why has it not submitted a request for a simple entry from the Treasury into the CARs affected by CAR 1283001? It's simple. Since March there has been a request. There's no guild. You know, the codes don't come out on the guilds, and the creation of a guild is not compulsory. If you're going to tell us, Mr. Colleague, I'm going to be informed, because I don't know. Since when is it not the Ministry responsible for finding out, in order to compensate the professional, but is any trade union or other body? Where did that law come from? What provision of the Constitution says that? Madam Secretary, don't be exposed. The Minister here has said that the sector has been damaged, and Mr Skylakakis has said so, but he has not taken the request from the Rural Development in Economics. It's just things. You're in charge of plant production. Everybody shows you. It's not the Minister's responsibility, it's yours and you haven't sent it. So don't say things that expose you very much. And what did you say about the olive? That you are entitled to the edible olive to put them all in - and good, as I said to you - while you are not entitled to the other. Listen, I didn't say about 126 million. That's what they've taken their way. I said State aid to everyone else, based on the same logic as that given to edible olives and non-professional farmers. There must be same measures and same standards. You can't have other criteria here and there. It can't be done. You can't do that. Understood. So what we are telling you is that you have an opportunity in the next few days to see the simple issues that have to do with the codes, so that people are not wrong, to send the request to the Ministry of Finance to join and, if there is money, make a programme to compensate. And, of course, for the oil producers, this is all about political will. You said that. The government will be judged by its political decision. It's a political choice, you said. Yeah, that's how we judge her and judge her. It is not right, because the 126 million from the PAA well, but plus the Ministry of Finance could be compensated all over the world. You can do so, even now, if you want this political decision, the incorrect one, to correct it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u21	Madam Secretary, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u22	Mr Colleague, I started my answer by saying that you are distinguished from the objective opposition you are making. You are now continuing to see in your dilemma, and you are presenting as it has been said and what I have not said is fait accompli. First of all, I didn't talk about guilds. Secondly, you are rather confusing, while you are a very experienced parliamentarian, the powers of the ministries. You're talking about CAR again. As far as I know from parliamentary control, Mr Skylakakis will come to you on Monday, 30 November, because your question has been submitted to Mr Skylakakis as well, in other words, with regard to the CSRs you are saying and saying again. Thirdly, Mr President, I said that the doctrine of this government and this political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development is one, simple and clear: no farmer, farmer, beekeeper, fisherman, who has proved to be affected by the coronary crisis, is going to remain without state support. What more do you want me to tell you? We have told you that with all the operators, with all those related to primary production, we are discussing and discussing in a direct, exhaustive way, so that the damage which has been suffered is documented and sent to the European Commission. The Ministry's department tells you that there has been no request to support aromatic plants. So you are now giving us, with your parliamentary intervention, the opportunity to make a picture of the possible damage suffered by the industry. You say and say again that we have the 127 million. But you didn't answer me, Mr. Colleague, why are you evading these 127 million chosen by the government... [[Noise from the wing of the Change Movement]] You know, Mr Colleague, I am addressing you, as you have to do, according to parliamentary authority and civil courtesy. So address the person you address the question. Anyway. You come in and you say...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u23	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u24	You're not answering me. The 127 million, which was the ceiling of the programme, Mr Colleague, would you like to share with everyone, namely the main-producers of oilseeds, half of them? Do you have a specific answer? You won't make a sterile opposition. I will conclude with a very positive news, Mr Colleague, for which you are certainly aware, but you have not mentioned it. You know that our farmers are involved with a government decision and with the relevant cooperation of our Ministry with the Ministry of Finance in the repayable advance. I don't suppose he got your attention. So they're getting 1,000 euros. Who's taking them? Those who had a turnover of EUR 300 in September - October 2020, and who were hit by 20% in 2019, and those affected by the 'NANO' - without that 20% of the difference - if they had a turnover of EUR 300, get without exception these EUR 1,000 of the repayable advance. What does that show, Mr. Comrade? It shows very simply the holistic interest of this government, based on the available resources, in dealing with the economic consequences of pandemic in the primary sector. I'll say one last word about aromatic plants, and I'll close here. You know, Mr Colleague, we very much believe that it is also a very dynamic primary sector. And is the time we are debating today for aromatic plants, one day after the relevant Pissaridis report, which says, Mr Colleague, has been published? It says that Greek exports amount to 37.2% of GDP compared to 65% of the other nine countries of the European Union, which are population comparable to our country, while exports of food and agricultural products are at 4.4% of GDP compared to 6.4% of the other nine countries. So that and only on the average must be approached, Mr Colleague - and we will approach him - and we will really give enormous added value to the Greek economy, agricultural production and, of course, to the area you are talking about, to the aromatic plants. This is the first time that we have the possibility of using the resources of the Recovery Fund and the new CFP to make use of all the financial instruments and to write a new chapter on the primary sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. At this point we will have a short break for health reasons and will continue to meet with the legislative work, in accordance with the agenda that has been distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u26	Let it be clarified that we are addressing the President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Kegeroglu, interrupt...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, you must inform the Minister that, when someone speaks below, it is addressed to the President in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. He doesn't know that either.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u29	Yeah, that's right. I particularly note that you are looking at the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u30	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u31	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u32	I'm not here to fight against. I said, according to Parliament's wishes and civil courtesy. And when someone makes gestures, you know what it's called.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u33	If someone doesn't have what to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u34	No, I know very well what I have to say. You didn't answer! Do you want the hundred and twenty-seven to be half?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u35	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u36	Please don't go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u37	I've answered you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u38	We will be adjourning for very few minutes and we will be coming back with the legislative work, in accordance with the agenda that has been distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Because we have many Katerina colleagues, but also in general in Greek society, to wish many years. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: 'Aid measures for workers and vulnerable social groups, social security regulations and provisions to strengthen the unemployed'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 19 November 2020 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, uniform, in principle, on articles and amendments. In particular, as regards the organisation of the debate, it is proposed, in addition to the rapporteurs, special speakers and parliamentary representatives, as well as the ministers who will be naturally involved, to add two courses of speakers to this debate by teleconferencing via the 'WEBEX' platform. Each cycle will include twelve speakers, with the following ratio: five from the New Democracy, three from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, one from the Change Movement, one from the KEI, one from the Greek Solution and one from the Mera25. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u40	The House has agreed. I see the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Loverdos, who wants something to say. You have the floor, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u41	I would like to make a statement before the debate begins, Mr President. Before you give me my minute, keep what we said last time: Whoever speaks from here and doesn't go up on the Step and wants to take off the mask will go back, so it won't be near the officials of the House who work. Do we agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u42	Okay, that's what I don't know if it's foreseen. We will ask the Health Service, which requires that anyone who speaks from his position to use the mask, but, in any case, that is a right proposal. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u43	I'm sorry, if it's a decision to speak with a mask, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u44	No, it's okay. You're at a distance, you can. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u45	Well, look at it. Otherwise we talk with a mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u46	We have also discussed this in the Conference of Presidents. And I have to tell you that it was originally my proposal, but I got the answer from the President, who has the full responsibility and keeps talking to our health people here, that only those who speak underneath will use the mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u47	If that's the decision, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u48	It is a decision, and I would ask that we do not get any more exceptions. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u49	Very good. Thank you. Mr President, we have done so many times in this Chamber over the last few months reports by all the parties on Turkey's attitude. In his statements yesterday by the Turkish Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Tsavosoglu, he set the criterion for the opening of the dialogue as follows: or dialogue and not tension or tension. While until yesterday - I don't know if even today - the Turkish ship accompanied by military violations our sovereign rights very clearly, Mr. Tsavosoglu is suddenly discovering that he wants to calm down and calls on Greece to enter into the logic of a dialogue that they supposedly want, while he has been canceled since October, making a new round of investigations and violating our sovereign rights. In fact, Mr. Tsavosoglou was invited to an article in the newspaper "Kathimerini", which we had read some time ago. Mr Tsavosoglou's article was an article completely written by the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not to lose the compass. When Turkey opened the debate - and invoked the issues of dialogue and correctly raised issues of maritime zones - we had the new NAVTEX, the new violation of our sovereign rights and the expansion of Turkey's political behaviour with what happened in the Occupieds in Cyprus and by President Erdogan himself. I want to make this statement, Mr President. We have first of all mentioned Turkey in this Chamber as a state of turmoil. That's what this is about. In view of the summit, it is not possible for Greece and no party in this House to say that this opportunity, for one day, to change a stance in Turkey's words opens a strand of opportunity to begin procedures which Turkey has torn and torpedoes even today with its behaviour. We are all political parties, I think, in the same direction. No one is fooled by behaviors reminiscent of attempts to trick each other, making childish supposedly political manoeuvres. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, too. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Christos Bukouros, has asked for the floor, I imagine on the same subject. Very soon, Mr. Buquoir.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, thank you very much. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement rightly points out the tricks attempted by the neighbouring country 15 days before the summit. However, I would like to point out, without any attempt to create complacentness, that yesterday there was so clear and so straightforward the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, who leaves no room for misinterpretation. After all, the reaction not only of the Greeks and Cypriots, not only of Greece and Cyprus, but also of many other European countries that characterise Turkey's very problematic behaviour is being recorded. I refer to yesterday's statement from the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In any case, we fully agree that Turkey is a country of trouble in our region and in any case the Greek diplomacy is not persuaded by the cheap tricks of Mr Tsavosoglu and Mr Erdogan over the last few days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Bukkaro. I am giving the floor, as it turns out, to any parliamentary representative who asks. Now Mr Skourletis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - Progressive Alliance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not surprised by the responseary challenges, the tricks, as they have been described and rightly pointed out, on the Turkish side. It's nothing new. We've been living it all over the past few months. However, I think that what is required on the part of the Greek side is stability in a strategy, in some principles, which will ultimately create the right ground, not the one that the other is seeking to create, the ground for dialogue, with a view to finding peaceful solutions, which will also ensure our national interests. At this point I would like to say the following. The Greek Government's obligation is to do everything possible to ensure a spirit of national understanding. In this sense, I think it is a huge deficit that the proposal, which is publicly tabled as well by us, for the convening of the Council of Political Heads under the President of the Republic, has not yet been adopted. I therefore think that, in addition to the big words, there must be stability in the peace strategy, guaranteeing national interests, stability in a foreign policy multi-dimensional strategy, which without delusion will defend what is fair to our country and will build relations for cooperation and dialogue in the wider region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u54	The special speaker, Mr Christos Katsotis, has asked for the floor on behalf of the Communist Party. Mr. Nikos Karathanasopoulos is a parliamentary representative, but, alas, Mr. Katsotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. The conversation is now. We would like to denounce and condemn Turkey's provocativeness, but which we have indicated is part of the context of competition in the region where the imperialist forces are calling for the control of energy sources. It is based on the so-called 'allies' of our country, the USA, NATO, the European Union, which we have promoted the security of our country in support of them. However, so far we see that not only are there not supporters, but in the words all these challenges are condemned to the detriment of our country's sovereign rights. The government has responsibilities, of course, like the previous governments, because the choices made by the allies are the ones that, if you wish, are exacerbating the issue and not mitigating it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution, Mr. Vassiliou Villiardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that as long as we are retreat to Turkey and do not define our maritime borders, as long as we do not protect our national sovereignty, the more we will be attacked by Turkey, verbally or others. It seems clearly from everywhere that the neighbouring country respects absolutely nothing. The big problem, of course, is the attitude of the European Union and, indeed, Germany, which is reacting to the imposition of virtually self-evident sanctions. What we need - and we have said too many times - is a Council of Political Heads of State, so that we all have a common attitude towards Turkey, which will become increasingly demanding. Continuingly condemning what he does is no use to anything. At some point we need to react and actively so that it stops doing what it has done over the last few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. We close this cycle of Parliamentary Representatives with the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, Mr Clana Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. There is no doubt that the previous speakers are right, all of them. Turkey is a dangerous country. She is taking a dangerous attitude to her foreign policy. This is a matter for her, and we have known that for decades. Our point is to deal with this situation, and Mera25 fears that the Greek Government and diplomacy are very wrong in dealing with the situation, by negotiating intermediaries like Germany or other countries of the European Union. We say this, Mr President, because the European Union has clearly shown its intentions. Turkey's research vessels are struggling for more than a month and a half on the Greek continent and not only are there no sanctions against that country, but they are not even called. That is to say, the European Union has not dared for a long time to say what these sanctions will be in the future. In our opinion, therefore, the only solution to the deadlock can be given if - as we have long been proposing - there is a conference of all the directly concerned - seven, if I am not mistaken - countries in the south-eastern Mediterranean, Syria, Libya, Egypt, ours, Turkey, because the problems facing the countries are linked. Greece cannot solve its problems with Turkey in the absence of Egypt. Egypt and Libya cannot solve their problems in the absence of Syria. If there is no conference with all interested parties, and above all without ombudsmen, who always play the wrong role, then, in our opinion, the situation will only get worse. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Gregoryde. We are now moving on to the debate on the bill and I call on the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Dimitris Markopoulos, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is clearly a time of shock due to the responseary challenges, which far exceeds all of us. At a juncture like this, everyone should weigh tensions and the composition should be promoted. All the political forces of the place are called upon to be lifted to the extent of the circumstances. The race is not among the political parties. We need to make that clear and understand. The challenge is with problems, problems that were not in such a intensity. There were many, varied problems in previous political periods too. But these problems are now entirely different. Our political boy won't count it with the fights, with the lasting convergences. In the case of society, our boi will measure it, and the citizens will specifically count it, in terms of those policies that will help them to emerge from the problems, from the deadlocks created by the coronary. The bill brought by the leadership of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs precisely this need for consensus describes: consensus on a coherent, clear plan and plan for the weak and medium-sized strata that are affected. Today we are all called on - and not in words - to prove whether we want to or not, I repeat, whether we want to or not - and I will explain this 'no' - that the tested Greek society be relieved. Eating in this place has always been easy. We also know that populism is a concern. Giving is the difficult one and, in fact, giving what he has deliberately promised. That's not the usual. So this makes this bill from the government's side. The majority today brings a relief plan, a bill which I would describe as a 'drafting bill'. I say this as a Member of Parliament, but above all as a citizen, who lives and comes from people's districts, from people's regions. It is not my goal to analyse what is happening and it is not today's duty to talk about what is going on in my region. But we are here with this bill for the people's world, for those who are affected. We're here for Piraeus. We're on the west suburbs. We're for western Thessaloniki. We're for the family in Evrosmos. We're for West Attica, for western Macedonia, who's been forgotten for years. For all those who suffer and need a hand of help. For the unemployed, for the homeless, for the family who cannot easily start her life and whose present bill provides her with beneficial opportunities and further access to money for her children. Giannis Vroutsis is here as a minister responsible for reducing the burdens of wage earners and improving injustices for professionals, lawyers, economists, whom we all know the way the policy of the previous government has hit. It's the middle layers, too. It's not just the low ones. It's not just the homeless. Domna Michailidou has arranged excellent arrangements for the homeless, for the abused women, for all these years and years that some people have been visiting through the feminist movements, which we have also watched, supported and interested us. But finally speaking, speaking, speaking and not doing something is what the Greek society has used to. Now they come politically targeted. As much as the Opposition - I have to exclude the most moderate attitude during the debate in the relevant Committee on Social Affairs, the attitude of the urban centre and I will become a specific one - the left-wing opposition in particular, as much as if it were seeking to alter the characteristics of the reductions and the aid of the bill - which give clear aid to homeless, malicious women, employees, due to the reductions of 3.9% in social security contributions, or their professionals and families - the truth is that today there is no substantial reason to vote against a series of beneficial measures to almost or to a very large part of Greek society, dominated by the excluded ones. The New Democracy is not the party that marginalizes the citizen. He doesn't bet on outsiders - to use an English term - to be politically justified. The New Democracy has always been, it is, and will be, a great, deep in the soul of the people's party that bets on the progress of the citizen and does not work for self-evident little party reasons. Social decline and poverty, the ideological work of the low layers and the cracks in the middle class of choices of other political spaces were to declare their radicalisation and revolutionisation. The proposed provisions of the bill therefore introduce deep areas. It is a draft law fully in line with the exceptional circumstances we are experiencing, due to the outbreak of the second pandemic wave. This bill has a clear and unnegotiable charitable sign, as it opens a path to increasing recruitment and revitalising competitiveness. It is a bill on the protection of childhood, on strengthening sensitive social groups, while extending the scope of different benefits and economic aid. At the same time, however, - and it is very, very important - it is moving into radical regulations, dealing in substance and in its deepest core with the question of the high non-wage costs of workers. Its provisions support both businesses and workers, away from demagogic cries and ideoleptic claws. I've made things clear. It's a bill that guards the labour market. In particular: The first chapter provides a legislative framework for the integrated protection of childhood, for the strengthening of the institution of adoption and assumption, as well as for the modern scourge of racial violence, and highlights the key issue of housing assistance to uninsured over-ages. We are here for the weak, I will repeat it in practice and not in words. The second chapter solves insurance issues in the direction of reducing the non-wage cost - I said before - wage labour provides payment facilities for the insurance funds to thousands of natural and legal persons tested by the pandemic and speeds up the digital transformation of e - EVA on the benefit of the insured. Digitalisation is our central policy, and that is what we will stand for. The third chapter addresses a series of organisational issues and removes chronic pathogens, which are an obstacle to the smooth and orderly functioning of the e-ECA. The fourth chapter concerns the organisational aspects of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Finally, the OAU's responsibility arrangements for the protection and enhancement of the unemployed are set out in Chapter 5. I will start by saying this, as this bill aims to fill the legislative gap that exists in the framework of authorisation conditions for the operation of creative employment centres for children and children - people with disabilities: At last, conditions are in place, a single framework for the operation of these structures, replacing ambiguities that have done all these things dysfunctionally. At the same time, an electronic application is being created with a body implementing the "IDES S.A." in order to put an end to the unclear and vague status, ensuring the provision of the same services and control and accountability, so that we know what is going on. These structures are crucial to the middle Greek family. So for so many years there has been no institutional framework. At the same time, the minimum guaranteed income is extended by joining it and the homeless - something very, very important - and women who have been victims of violence and who live in hospitality. For the first time, therefore, and allowances are being given, they are being financially assisted, but at the same time at the same time, people who are hosted, because of the time, because of their life course, at the lowest possible levels and the greatest problems. That's philosophical. It's a philosophical policy. It is not what the Left is saying 'neo-liberalism' with great ease. When you defend the homeless and the malicious woman, this is a philosophical policy and when you give them help, which was not in the years of previous governance. At the same time, the framework governing the institution of assigns and adoptions is being reformed in a more operational direction. In particular, injustices are lifted and families with disabilities can be adopted. I said again and in my positions in the committee that the central government's policy, which has been expressed since December 2019, is a family for every child. This, at the same time, does not mean that parents who have a dependent, a disabled person, a disabled child, cannot offer their love to a child who has no family. And, at the same time, it solves the problem for people who have a child and are growing up and do not know tomorrow if they will live and what will happen to that child, that child having a help, having a brother, so he may somehow be able to help it. Article 10 shall be extended to applications for birth grants. The amounts are increased from EUR 123 million, which was in 2020, to EUR 160 million in 2021 and continue to provide the allowance, the critical allowance for our demographic issue, of EUR 2 000. This is a policy that strengthens the family and increases our country's population in a period of time - because I have heard previous interventions on Greek-Turkish - that our country needs a coordinated policy. A programme entitled 'House and work for the Homeless' is hereby established. Everyone deserves - I repeat - a second chance, and this is the philosophical head of this bill. There is also a special digital platform for granting housing assistance to all our elderly uninsured fellow citizens, with the simultaneous digital transformation of OPECA, in order to overcome the mobs of bureaucracy, which the previous government, despite any announcements, has failed to eliminate. The incompatibility of the probative benefits is also established. At this point, I would like to analyse more closely a flagrant - I believe - reform, the reduction of insurance contributions by 3.9%, a reform that - I will repeat, I will say and communicate, and all of us - brings warm money to the tested Greek family, a reform necessary under these exceptional circumstances. I am sorry to hear various arguments during the committee that the OAED is supposed to be devalued. Those who say that will look after the state budget are overlooked. We have also heard from some that it will be reduced - something that we are sitting about - the unemployment benefits, that policies against unemployment will be remedied. In fact, we have heard some things that are obviously based on genome mathematics, mainly from SYRIZA, as Mrs Fotou said, that each worker - says - will be strengthened from EUR 2.8 to EUR 14. No more untrue, and I really invite you to revise, to check your mathematics. The average Greek family of these arrangements will have aids ranging from 200 to over 300 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u62	Time. Tell us how much it will be next month.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u63	Is it a little bit, Mrs. Fotio, perhaps, 300 euros? I don't know if you're being spared. I think there's no leftovers in the Greek family. I'll finish and you'll be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u64	Don't have a dialogue. Besides, you'll follow the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u65	Is there little in the tested small and medium-sized Greek firm per employee to lighten the micro-enterprise, which, because of the coronary, has a problem and is struggling to maintain jobs? So that is what the reduction in insurance contributions is going to do by 3.9%. Business will now have significant benefits. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like some time, Mr President, to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u66	As soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u67	It is essentially a regulation in favour of the worker, the small and medium-sized businessman, in favour of all those who are currently struggling against the coronary. Ladies and gentlemen, today's high wage costs are a lever for growth. Here, then, we are implementing our election commitment to reducing insurance contributions. It's clear. Recruitment through such regulation will be extended, competitiveness will be strengthened, our country will become an attractive investment destination, but - I repeat - the most important, prologue, because it has to be done, is that Greek workers will get warm money at a critical time. Furthermore, it is of key importance that Article 41, which helps the land market that it had frozen and effectively made the capacity of thousands of citizens who wanted to sell their assets powerless. They can now regulate their debts. It must also be said that, on a monthly basis now, until the 20th day of the next month of recording the data of the "ELIOS", "ATLANTA", "ERGANIS", but also of the CRL - there will be, I repeat, transparency - the Ministry will be obliged by law to present all the information and not the opposition, which will only say "How many new pensions do we have?", "How many new pensions we have?", "How many have been paid?". and we have to go to a parliamentary procedure. You didn't. Yannis Vroutzis and the Ministry of Labour do it. That's transparency. Repeat: Transparency! And that should be understood, because we are the government that promotes these tools, it presents them, where others did not give evidence of the progress of pensions, and we understand the reasons and failures of their policies. So, all in the light, unfeasibility! Last I want to say and it's very important. Article 66 includes special care for one-off financial assistance to lawyers, engineers and economists, to deal with obviously the negative consequences of the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, we are the real supporters not only of the weak but also of the middle class, of all those who voted against the SYRIZA ideological policy the previous government and where we are given an opportunity - and you will see it in the future - such benefits and help, without any micropolitical logic, with a reasonable justification for those people who suffered during the years of SYRIZA - ANEL government. The Government of New Democracy, and I conclude, faithful to its election commitments, applies faithfully and unreservedly, despite the difficulties of COVID, despite the issues that have arisen in times of trouble, its programme, without decommissioning to the slightest extent - this is the commitment of Mr Mitsotakis - its reform agenda and its polite agenda - you do not want a profile. The draft law under consideration aims to be the backbone of protection and insurance for all our hard-tested people, as it removes injustices of the past, neutralizes chronic distortions and pathogens and sets the conditions for a better tomorrow in society, the economy and the labour market. I do not think that the National Representation will vote for and in a way emphatic measures for these people who are suffering today and who are looking at us and who are now all intervening with them and with their needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u68	Please prepare a health check. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Interior, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime Affairs, Rural Development and Food Policy, State, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment and Foreign Affairs, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Civil Protection and Culture and Sport, tabled a draft law on 25-1-20: 'Modernisation of Spatial and Urban Law'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. I now call on the SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mrs Theanoo Fotio, to move to Stepma. Here, Mrs. Fotio, you have the floor for fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u69	With one tolerance, Mr President, because I would like to make a statement about the day.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u70	You have a small tolerance, because you have a secondary one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u71	Yes, Mr. President, I know. Mr President, first of all I would like to make a statement on the day it is today to eliminate violence against women, which we all know has been intensified by a pandemic. We say "don't" to all women! Don't be quiet! Talk about it! This is the message we send to all women today. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour is a false copy, a communal consumption, analogous to the country's tragedy, due to tragic mistakes, omissions and ideological obsessions against the public health system. That's why you're doing little and too late, not just by incompetence. We are experiencing a health and economic tragedy. The draft budget also confirms this: a recession of 10.5% for 2020 and at the same time a communal storm for reversal of reality. We lived through the drafting of the bill: insurmountable mammothisms and poaching, to confirm the ghetto 'the greater the lie, the more trustworthy', both by the rapporteur of the New Democracy and by the ministers. Positive arrangements are few, as we have said, nine in sixty eight articles. The vast majority of the bill are small improvements to existing laws and transformation into a law of existing joint ministerial decisions. That's the terrible bill! Finally, twenty articles relate to a small number of beneficiaries - and they are good - but they relate to a small number of beneficiaries of up to three thousand people - and ten of the sixty eight articles must be withdrawn. It is boasted by Mr Brutsi that the reduction in insurance contributions brings warm money into the workers' pockets. This is actually EUR 2.8 to EUR 14 a month - a month, not the time you say, Mr Marcopoulou! - who will not pay 72% of the workers who today get between 200 and 1,000 euros a month. And it's ridicule, because you know that 50% of the workers today are working with 534 euros or rotating and with a lazy gift. What they will benefit is EUR 6 a month. We are proposing to increase the minimum wage from EUR 650 to EUR 750 twice as much as 7.5%, as promised. That's hot money in the workers' pockets, not what you're saying. You claim that you are very supportive of businesses. One out of three is in danger of closing. With the reduction in insurance contributions you are currently giving from EUR 4 to EUR 21 per employee per undertaking at 97% of the firms with up to nine employees. We say you need to give the non-refundable aid. Nor can new recruitments be carried out by businesses, as Mr Brutsi imagines. However, the reduction in insurance contributions by 3% is deducted exclusively from the OAED's revenues in huge amounts. The income of the agency which finances unemployment, training programmes and counselling for the unemployed and workers are reduced by 1.2 billion. It's a destructive reduction for the OAED. The GSEE told you, the GSEE told you, who even suggested that this money should be given from the 'SURE' programme, because of course the terrible reduction you only make for one year in the 2021 pandemic year. All operators have told you that this 65% reduction in LEADER cancels training and employment programmes for workers, businesses and long-term unemployed. However, your insistence and perseverance to shrink OAED implements the Pissaridis project to give huge sums to the private training market, possibly with voucher-type "scole" for which the Ministry of Labour has a great deal of experience. We are voting against Rule 31. You do not support the unemployed, nor do you support this bill. You know that with your measures of the five hundred thousand long-term unemployed only thirty thousand will receive one allowance and only one million unemployed will only receive a two-month extension of unemployment benefits. You deliberately ignore the deep recession and the poorness of hundreds of thousands of households, even from the middle layers, which, before the pandemic, had a satisfactory standard of living. It's the middle layers you deceived. That is why we are tabling two amendments which are coming to strengthen all of these households affected by the pandemic, and we invite you to accept them. It's for workers, it's for households, it's for business. The first concerns the provision of emergency income in December for households including unemployed, subsidized or not, precariously, workers, with blockage or miserable, seasonal, farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises, cultural workers, self-employed professionals and self-employed workers, who have not today received substantial support from the state. The aid amount shall be EUR 400 for the first adult member of the household, EUR 200 for the second and EUR 100 for each minor member of the household. What do you answer that? What do you think? That it's thrown money? That it's a leafy tree? The second amendment concerns the granting by the State of the full Christmas gift to workers affected by the pandemic, calculated on the basis of their full salary and not on the basis of the reduced actual earnings. It's all Christmas present for the private sector. Mr Brutsis had the nerve to say that by reducing by 6% he made the insurance contributions in 2015 - listen, listen - he threw unemployment! That's a joke! In 2015 you delivered us one million and fifty thousand unemployed. We managed to reduce them by half a million. Today you're raising them again. Socio-security provisions have positive measures, such as extension and reintegration into a dose regulation of overdue citizens. But how will these highly indebted citizens pay? If two instalments are lost, this arrangement is abolished. You have to include the one-off financial support, apart from lawyers, engineers and economists, for all the scientists who pay the EUR 10 and we expect at least today to say that. I'm talking about sanitary, dentist, judiciary and so on. But, as in all the bills, you include provisions that strengthen your party terminal state. These are Articles 57 and 58, which we are voting against, because with them you are cancelling advanced procedures for the selection of fifty-one people in management positions of the Ministry of Labour and the APRC, in breach of a recent law adopted by Mr Theodorikos, that is to say, the state of service of the Minister of Labour over the official state of Mitsotakis! You are further downgrading the APRC, because you can now become a director without ever serving in the APRC, while in the same bill, this is a prerequisite for service. Take conclusions on your own. Multi-advertised direct e-government and one-off is a provocative communication deception. It does not deal with the real delay, which is the lack of full digital recording of each worker's working life. That's the problem. You don't have to fool people and then take them back! What were you talking about so far? That you will give a digital pension at the end of December to the health and the disabled. What did Mr. Brutsis tell us in a triumphant style the other day? That it expands, will give it to March, and we see it. With your own data from "ATLANTA" you already have a 30% increase of the main pensions from the ones we left in 2019, a hundred thirty-three thousand against a hundred-three. And as the European Commission says, all pension benefits - main pension and subsidiary and one-off - are three hundred and sixty thousand. That's what you've done! With regard to pensioners' retrospectives, about eighty thousand pensioners saw reduced retrospectives that had to be taken. It was the retrospective of the cuts in the laws of 4093/2012 and 4051/2012 of Mr. Vroutsi, who had been tried by the S.E. What social dividend will you give Christmas for low-paid and low-paid pensioners, who did not get a single euro from the retrospectives the S.H.E., why did Mr. Brutsis cut the return of the gifts? Half of the bill is about welfare and is advertised as a reform section. It is, at best, amendments to SYRIZA laws and the conversion of existing SYRIZA laws into a law, such as the flagship law for acceptance and adoption, the Committee on Minors, the "House and Work for the Homeless" and others, which do not take into account the impoverishment of the Greek people, who are now unable to pay their basic goods. That is why we have tabled an amendment and we ask you to accept it - or in any case answer it - for the free supply of electricity, the reconnection of cut-off electricity and a ban on water, gas, telephony and Internet connections, when there are due obligations, so that - at last - families can apply the health protection protocols and indeed workers and students can use the necessary Internet. You told us that the articles on vulnerable groups are major reforms of the privileged state. Let us see them: Reform for CSR and CSR - ASE, an institution that has been operating since 2011 on the basis of CSR. In 2019, we delivered you sixty-seven-and-a-half thousand voucher children, in 2020 you reduced them to sixty-three thousand children and left out another sixty-five thousand children who had a full e-mail file. You left and unpaid to date in local and private CIDs and CIDs - ACE since September. That's a great reform! What does reform say? The reform lies in not making primary CDIs in schools, because it says that children have to change the environment. Is it good to be in the same school all day? Madam Minister, you don't understand. Schools are beacons of vividness, love, solidarity for every neighborhood. It's not how we're going to go around - to be in pleasant environments. They are pleasant environments and you have to do them - if they are not - and we all do them for the good of the whole people. You are insisting on removing three allowances, the minimum guaranteed - former CRL, of course - housing and child from all over the family, even though a child repeats the order because of absenteeism. We are voting against Article 10! A small-scale modification to SYRIZA's flagic law on assumption and adoption. I'll explain what it is, because you're scrubbing unfairly and wrongly and putting me into great thoughts about whether you're able to understand the law on admission and adoption that we inherited and, if you can, apply it. Why? What do you think? You're saying what you're doing first, what is it? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need time, Mr. President. It is that one can become a contractor if in his environment he has a person who has no good physical health. You're making this amendment! Good! What does that have to do with what you're saying now, that this gives children perspective? If their parents die, will the little brother in which they've become contractors be taken care of? Are you serious? This shows huge ignorance and what you're saying is dangerous. I'm so sorry. You know that the problem is solved by a CFD, roofs of supported living and roofs of independent living, which we have established. We joined the ESRB and Mr Georgiadis, when he came here on a timely question, told us that he froze this because he is not going to implement the SYRIZA programmes, since the people elected New Democracy. I would like you to see them in the Minutes. On the occasion of the article on the CFPs and those on the assumption - adoption, which I said before what a huge force you are making - you are taking a stumbling-up! - I'm telling you, you've talked a lot about disability. You have, however, left thirty-seven thousand pending applications for welfare disability and you have reduced the welfare budget for 2020 by EUR 97 million. Look at the budget! Leave the tears for disability! We are tabling an amendment today, and we are asking you to accept it: an extension to all those who already receive a disability allowance and need renewal for six more months; an immediate grant of the allowance to those who have submitted for the first time complete dossiers, without passing through the CEPD, compensation for the diagnosis of private doctors for 14 thousand disabled people who cannot currently complete their electronic file, because the Coronovirus hospitals do not respond. What are you going to do with these fourteen thousand if you do not accept the amendment that we are telling you? Grants in December of a double disability allowance for beneficiaries. There is a lot of talk of Housing and Work. In 2015 - I will say again - we received the program for the homeless 'House and Reintegration'. We continued to implement it by the end of 2017. We then replaced it with Housing and Work. It's not yours. We did it with CIA. Today, you make this KHS law and legislate it exactly on the same terms, with the same budget, 5 million euros we had the time, 10 million euros you put in for two years. The same smuggling you make for the housing allowance for uninsured overtime, which has been operating with two MSGs since 1985 and 1987. Since 2018, OPEKA has given it. The number of beneficiaries remained stable himself. That's what you keep going on. But, in this provision that makes it law, you are setting the inhumane limit for the over-age beneficiaries, in order to get, in other words, this housing allowance, you are increasing the years from sixty-five years to sixty-seven years. It's inhuman what you're doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u72	But finish, Mrs. Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u73	I'm on my way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u74	Completely, I said, not move on. You have your dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u75	Good, Mr President, I can hear you. We consider these rules to be positive for...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u76	Close with the last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u77	I can hear you, you'll take my time off secondary. We believe that the positive arrangements relate to a small number of beneficiaries and we obviously mean new regulations that are positive, we will vote on them, but it is a small number and it is a sluggish one to add these three thousand to all the other beneficiaries who existed before. You don't do them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u78	Close, Mrs. Fotio. We are not netting time with the denunciation to the rapporteurs. Shut up! Hang up now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u79	Good. I say good things, Mr President. We're three and the cocoon. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u80	It's not like you call it. There is a list here - which you do not see - colleagues who will speak by teleconferencing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u81	All right, I'll be done, Mr. President. I'm saying good things.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u82	So finish with the last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u83	You are welcome to be able to retire to civil servants suffering from cyber fibrosis and a double pension for children who lose both parents. Positive is the regulation for the three hundred homeless and abused women living in guesthouses and giving them the CRL - a minimum guaranteed - because the rest of the homeless on the street had already given it in 2017. Instead of creating a strong technical service to manage the many properties of the Ministry, you are entrusting the job to the regions to get rid of, with doubtful results. We disagree. We're against Article 61. Legislation on the free distribution of empty and unsettled residences of the former OEC to vulnerable citizens. Thus you create hope for thousands of citizens, while you know that a hundred twenty to one hundred fifty damaged dwellings need extensive repairs. And we're wondering...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u84	Mrs. Fotio, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u85	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u86	You said it a hundred times. I don't know how I should interrupt you anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u87	I will end in a minute, Mr President. If I don't finish in a minute, you'll interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u88	Not a minute. Please warmly! It can't be done. Respect the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u89	I can hear you, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u90	Shut up! You will not be doing parliamentary scrutiny today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u91	We're wondering if this is a client present.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u92	Mrs. Fotou, you're closed. You don't have the floor anymore. Please, because you've reached twenty minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u93	These are not reformist areas in the prosperous state. We are voting 'at present' in principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u94	Please take care of the Step, so that the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. George Mulkiotis, can then speak. Until this is done, I would like to make a statement in this House: the Ministers for Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Justice, Interior, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, State, the Deputy Minister of Finance, as well as the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection, have tabled, on 24-11-2020, a draft law: "Summary of smuggling - Closure of the Protocol on the Elimination of Illicit Trade in Tobacco, Provisions on Shared Property and Communities, Provisions on Traffic charges and Classification fees, incentives to attract tax residents". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Here, Mr Mulkiotis, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, "the years have happened to be splendid, wars, ruins, hostilities", as Seferis says in an abstraction of the poem. And in 2020 this lyric, along with the coronary and the double general lock, got stuck on us. It is perhaps still too early to assess the disastrous consequences, but also the consequences of this pandemic, which, apparently, will still have a long life cycle. However, it is clear that the current picture - with the morbidity curve pulling up - concerns us all, while the expectations of rapid recovery in 2021, after the budget in Parliament, as regards Greek society, are rather problematic. The government uses various tricks to hide what it does not have. He's dropping the fireworks of the Pissaridis Committee's new development plan, citing a supposedly better tomorrow. With communal storms he tries to project like big achievements measures that actually self-delete. The government is being played in support of the workers and the unemployed, while unemployment is being robbed and the 'lucky' are being asked to live with EUR 534 or with EUR 300 a month. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is played for the early armoring of the welfare structures, while cases are regularly announced in various care structures of the elderly. Moreover, it is an example of the "Athens Panteleimon" Chronic Diseases Annex of the Centre for Social Welfare of Central Macedonia, the largest welfare institution in Northern Greece and one of the largest in the country, but also in the Balkans, where the other was found sixty carers, as well as workers, who were positive to the coronary. The government is being played for the management of immigration-refugee and the protection of unaccompanied minors, while, after the destruction of the Moria - European governments such as the Dutch Government, they are taking responsibility for the delay in receiving unaccompanied children to the bureaucracy of the Greek Government. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had the opportunity to repeatedly recognise the positive proposals of this bill at the meeting of the committee responsible, as we had the opportunity to highlight the shortcomings and the distortions of the provisions that are being introduced to vote and to ask our specific questions. Unfortunately, most of the questions we have raised remain unanswered. Our proposals are not heard by the Minister responsible. Of course, however, we must put them back and mention very specific things. We know that the Minister will not answer any of the issues we raise. But the Greek people are listening and judging. I come to Article 10 concerning the extension of the deadline for applying for a birth allowance. We said the order was positive. However, we had warned since January that the one-off payment of EUR 2 000 for each child will not achieve its purpose will not bring about the desired increase in births, because the demographic policy of the government is not serious. Moreover, the births of the year 2020 prove this. That is why we proposed, with an amendment, that the demographics be treated holisticly. We repeat a small excerpt of our proposal, which concerns strengthening the child's family of EUR 200 a month for the first three years since his birth. Is there any planning in the government for further reinforcement of demographics and has it not been known? Is there any plan to introduce any allowance, any allowance, and therefore the government's intervention to deal with demographics? Oh, no! As far as Article 18 is concerned, which concerns the incompatibility of the provision of benefits, it is good to clarify Mrs Michaelidou. The articles on the “House and Work for the Homeless” programme are an initiative that has been piloted by PASOKs and is positive. Of course, we have told you that at the time, under PASOK, this programme was launched with a budget of EUR 10 million for one year, and now EUR 10 million is being provided for two years. We therefore need to strengthen and broaden the objectives. For example, provision should be made for incentives to set up in the region, such as for the repair of a paternity home. We have also pointed out that, in relation to housing allowances, it should be explicitly foreseen that the allowance will be paid by means of an authorisation and a report by the social worker. We believe that the allowance in itself, without this report, is a trap of permanent illness. Articles 32, 33 and 34, concerning the extensions of contributions and the second opportunity and the reincorporation of insured debtors into e-ECA, constitute a positive provision. However, Minister, we have tabled an amendment to this effect, which proposes extending the possibility of reintegration into the insurance scheme and for those who lost it up to 17-11-2020, that is, until the day the bill was tabled to Parliament and not only during the pandemic. It's fair, it's reasonable and it'll help all those who lost the arrangement up to 17-11-2020. In relation to the liquidation of the contributions of the free professionals 2017, 2018, 2019 and on the basis of income, as the previous government law has unfortunately foreseen, we consider that this is an important achievement of the EKA. However, I would like the Minister to clarify something we have asked on several occasions today if the liquidation also concerns those who had parallel insurance. We have put it in committee as a question, but so far we have not received any response. With regard to the CIDs and CIDs - AEIs, which are one of the country's pioneering institutions and the only one at primary level that has contributed to the improvement of quality of life over the past twenty-one years, this institution really has to go through a new era. But what does "new age" mean? It means, firstly, ensuring the universal nature of the institution with access to everyone. Secondly, the immunisation of the public social character of the CCP and CCP structures - ACE through stable financing of operating costs combined with secure permanent labour relations between structures staff. It means, thirdly, extending the institution to each municipality of the country and, fourthly, modernising their services, in order to speed up and achieve the development and maintenance of autonomy and self-determination skills, with the aim of preparing people with disabilities or even chronic diseases to independent living. All this on the basis of the requirements of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We also propose, Minister, that the age limit should be between four and fifteen years. The most important thing is that the CSR provided for in paragraph 4 must in any case be issued in agreement with the CSR. We recall - and we also stressed in the committees - that schools do not belong to anyone other than the municipalities. Schools are dowry and ownership of local government and belong to municipalities and local communities. In relation to Article 35, which reduces the insurance contributions of immigrant engineers, we would say that the provision is positive. But we're saying he's half incomplete. We are proposing that the regulation and the paid health workers, that is to say, the former CSAH. If they do not join, new inequalities are created. Do you agree with our proposal, Minister and Madam Secretary? We'd like an answer. And the interested ones want an answer. It is a whole sector that you have excluded. Article 66 provides for the granting of one-off financial assistance to lawyers, engineers and economists insured in e-ECA, provided that they have joined the codes of the Ministry of Finance between March and October 2020. The money for this positive support does not come from the state budget or from the European Union. On the contrary, they come from the Special Unemployment Account established in OAED and from 1 -8-2011 it receives 10 euros a month from all these self-employed and independent employees. We have noted since the first meeting of the committee that this account has been held by others for about ten years. Physicians and dentists, who were the affected MAGPs, are not included while paying contributions. So are the curators, traders, etc. The position of the Change Movement is clear. We believe that all those who have contributed under the present situation of pandemic and subsequent economic difficulties are entitled to financial support. It's their money, and they need it now. There is, however, one question that we have raised in committee as well. This Special Account for Self and Independent Persons What money does it have today? It is an issue on which there is no answer, but no one at all. We ask and ask the Minister to answer to the House how much money this Special Account is currently in favour of Self-Government and Independent Workers, so that there is full transparency and knowledge. Minister, please, please, you who are accusing us of a sterile opposition, I would like to remind you that this financial support, which you are stunning as your success, is simply the break-up of the money of these beneficiaries. I would also like to remind you that in 2011, when PASOK instituted the creation of this Special Unemployment Account, you were a New Democracy rapporteur in this bill and you voted against it, because, you see, in those difficult years with such actions you, supposedly, made a constructive opposition and we just didn't understand it. We did not understand, in other words, that you, who received a growth rate of 5.5% in 2004, declared yourself to be 'atazum' - let me be allowed to express - in 2005 a year of competitiveness and then, after you have done absolutely nothing, erased the machines of the Greek economy, with the result that in 2008, before the international crisis, we had five jobs in the European Union. Then you delivered Greece at the end of 2009 already submerged in the recession, with more than 0.2%. You were not the populists, but you were champions - within introductorys - "developers". Finally, in relation to Article 31, one of the many questions we have asked and to which you have not answered us - no questions have you answered us, Minister - is the reduction of the three-point contribution which has to do with the duration of the measure. We ask again: What is the government's objective? Why do you have to put it in place for a certain period of time, while you are showing that there is no more than a permanent measure? Is that an emergency and a temporary measure? Tell us to know. Is there - and is it a question that has not been answered - an economic study of the benefit-benefit groups in relation to the OAED? And if this measure is extended beyond 21 December 2021, what will happen every year so that resources are not deducted from the OAED, thereby undermining the future of the sensitive programmes of the Agency for the unemployed, their training and employment? Every year, will you come in the same way and anticipate the losses of the OAED or tell us that in 2022 unemployment will stop? Because Article 31 does not explicitly provide that the loss of revenue of the OAED and of the EVRD is covered by the State budget. I say this because, if you retrospectively mention some figures in the state budget, we know and know that the Agency's loss of revenue is ultimately not fully covered. If you wanted to do so, you will see it directly in the layout, as you are used to. In 1996, when we introduced the ETUC as a permanent measure - which was abolished by the previous government - we provided directly for it to be borne by the state budget. That's what we want today. Provision is made for the state budget to be charged. You haven't. In fact, until last night you tabled an amendment to school meals, in which, as usual, you are right to state that the provisions and expenditure on the programme of meals are covered by the Ministry of Labour's budget. So here, for the OAED, why do you not expressly say how it is covered and where it is covered? To be clear, we repeat once again that we as a Change Movement are in favour of strengthening businesses and workers, but at the same time we also need to secure the OAED's revenue in order to meet its crucial social role. Ladies and gentlemen, we are opposed to the deterioration of the training and employment programmes that this measure entails. We are opposed to a measure which, as is currently being introduced by the government, recycles taxation through the state budget. We are defending the relief of businesses and workers, but at the same time we are in favour of the social link between the worker and the unemployed and the worker. After all, we are the ones who have proposed to strengthen businesses by means of taxation in a simple way. We are again saying that wage costs for each additional full-time job in enterprises are calculated as tax deductible at a rate increased by 50%. In other words, for every 1,000 euros that each company pays for newly recruited full-time workers it is exempted from taxation for EUR 1,500 for certain categories. This adoption of our proposal would mean, firstly, greater benefit to companies and, secondly, support for healthy and profitable companies and not horizontal aid to the 'jobs' of the crisis. This bill, if implemented, will bring about reductions in the Special Account for Employment and Social Training, in particular, a reduction in the LEI and a reduction in the Social Policy Account. The LEADER, moreover, is financed by the Social Policy Account, ladies and gentlemen, the functions of the tripartite bodies. And I'm talking about the ELINYAE, the OMD, the EMCDDA. In any case, in order to avoid any doubt, we are asking for an explicit provision of law that the loss of OSCE in the reduction of insurance contributions is supplemented by the State budget. Finally, Mr President, we have tabled an amendment proposing a suspension of first home auctions until 30 April 2021 on the basis of income criteria provided for, the suspension of application of the Banking Code by the end of April and the postponement of deadlines for the redefinition of the outstanding cases of the Katseli Act. We also propose, by amendment, the inclusion of the legal person of private law under the name "Sykaryidium Institute of Adaptable Children" as an annex to the Centre for Social Welfare in Attica. Finally, we welcome the adoption of our proposal to extend the mandate of the management bodies of the trade unions of disabled persons, which you have incorporated into Article 6 of Ministerial Amendment 581/50 of 2020. We, Minister, have requested that the term of office be extended until October. You're giving an extension until April. We note and draw your attention to the following: it will be impossible March - April, as the amendment goes, to gather seven hundred conferences in Athens and, indeed, to the problems these people have with disabilities from all over Greece. So I think it would be right to extend it until July 2021. Otherwise, we have the feeling that you will again come and ask for an extension. For the same amendment, Mr Minister, I would like to refer to Rule 5 and I would ask you to take this into account. Refers to Article 5(1) that the administrative bodies of trade unions referred to in Article 9 of Law 1264/1982 are extended. When you say 'the term of office of the administrative boards', you refer only to the boards of directors. However, when elections are held in the trade unions, elections are held for an election committee and for representatives. We cannot only have elections for the board of directors and the representatives and the Electoral Committee should not be extended. So there's one problem. The specific word 'administrative' must therefore be removed, in order to complete the provision, to complete the amendment and indeed to extend the term of office of all the bodies elected under Article 9. Ladies and gentlemen, in Greece the welfare state is the collective acquis of post-population, with a protagonist - we call it - the PASOK governments, the party that adopted holistic and integrated policies to prevent social risks, the individual and social well-being of its citizens. I say this with the weight of the historical reforms carried out by the PASOK governments in the field of social policy. Social protection policies are our historic resource, which we are turning every day with consistent and hard work into a continuation of our action and ideas. For us, the Change Movement, social justice and equal participation of all citizens in society are at the heart of our thinking and actions. It is the response to social exclusion, to inequality, to marginalisation, to discrimination, to stigmatism, with respect for vulnerable and vulnerable groups. We support policies centred on man and that is why we insist on decent living allowances and not welfare poverty benefits. That is why we insist on the need to draw up a new national strategy for social protection and integration, with actions that are universal, care-giving services and a level of living in order to defend social rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u96	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u97	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that this is why we are fighting for a permanent system of support for the low-pension workers to whom problems have been created. That is why we are fighting for a fairer and more effective public social security system that guarantees dignity for all citizens. That is why we are fighting for the inclusion of the ESS health workers in the heavy and unhealthy professions, with an amendment we have tabled for the seventh time - for the seventh time, Mr President - and it has been tacitly rejected six times and no answer has been given why it has been rejected. I conclude, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u98	You end up again! You've ended up five times!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u99	Okay. I conclude - I do not want any longer, Mr President - by saying that we are asking for the amendments tabled by the Change Movement to be accepted. If they are not accepted, there is a specific answer because they are rejected. We consider that the written samples of the government, which I have said in this bill, despite the individual provisions and forecasts mentioned, are unfortunately not in line with our own guidelines and positions. It's different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u100	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Members of Parliament, all the governments of the New Democracy, PASOK, KINAL, and SYRIZA, with the support or tolerance of the other parties in the bourgeoisie, when all together applied policies adapted to the decisions of the European Union, the demands of large capital, in order to make the economy competitive, to address the ten-year crisis with all the memoranda and law-enforcement, allegedly shared the consequences of the pandemic and to address the new crisis. You loaded them all on the backs of the working class and the people. These policies have given birth and give birth to poverty, poverty, create the homeless, vulnerable groups, cuts in people’s needs. The government's commitment to the holy and loyal capital, their profits, is particularly confirmed by the class management of the pandemic. The measures suggested by the scientific community are not implemented as they are, because they are not applicable, as they claim, and adapt them in line with the needs of business groups. The responsibility for the pandemic reaping, with thousands of cases, permeated and dead, belongs to the government and the capital, because you refused to hire doctors and nurses is missing, to open up the hospitals you have closed, to ensure the necessary beds and ICUs, according to international standards, to make a real order of the private health sector, without bailouts and compensations, baptizing the purchase of services by private individuals in wartimes with a sloppy fee. You refused to create the conditions for protecting people's health, with new teaching rooms and fifteen children per class, to hire drivers in public transport, to check private buses, to stop the health bomb, to do work, to various structures, with repeated tests. While the government prioritises the functioning of the capitalist economy and not the health of the people, it comes and moves the finger to the people, to youth, and it speaks of individual responsibility. The pandemic of capital and its political staff seems to be a great opportunity to take all those measures that will bring the consequences of the new crisis on the people. The conclusion of the Pissaridis Committee provides for further slaughter of the remaining rights. The Government presented this bill as a draft law reducing insurance contributions. So at least he was promoted, under the responsibility of the government, by the media. The Minister for Labour presented the reduction of insurance contributions as a corrective change. What does he note in his position? It will give, he says, oxygen to businesses, broaden and strengthen the labour market, making recruitment more attractive. He answers that the target is the usual: even cheaper the labour force. And to make it more acceptable, he says he'll put something in his pocket as well. It shows the truth with the head down. It shows the reduction in insurance contributions as a support for employees, while it is a reduction in the wages of employees, which is a reduction in their wages, part of which is insurance contributions. This arrangement is part of the area of freedom of the State and of the employer from insurance, which all governments served, of the New Republic, of the PASOK, of the SYRIZA and, together with them, of the conversion of insurance from social to individual responsibility of the worker. These are the directions contained in the Pissaridis Commission's finding and, of course, this whole reform is continuing, as you call it. The reduction in insurance contributions by three percentage points since 1 January 2021, together with the previous reduction of 0,9 points already in force by June, will reduce the OAED’s revenues by around EUR 1,2 billion. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] He asked the rapporteur of the New Democracy yesterday how this amount would be obtained. It's just arithmetic, real arithmetic, that zero plus zero does zero and not 14%. We say this for the oldest, who remember this saying of the former Prime Minister of the New Democracy in the 1990s. The OAED by an unemployment support and protection organisation has become a fund to finance business groups and find cheap labour. While the registered unemployed are almost a million thousand, only 16% are subsidised with a low allowance, which is from EUR 200 to EUR 399. Eight hundred and seventy - five thousand unemployed are completely unprotected. It's your work, too. You have all contributed to changing the character of the OAED. The state budget, already published on Friday, also provides for reduced unemployment benefits from EUR 2,148 billion to EUR 1,328 billion. However, the allocation of the Energy Employment Policy Programmes, as you have called them, which strengthen business groups, is increased from EUR 453 million to EUR 500 million for 2021. The implementation of these measures of this bill will increase the deficits of EKKA, with a great impact on insurance rights, health, pensions, as state funding is reduced. The state budget in the middle of a pandemic also presents a reduction of EUR 600 million for health, for pensions, of EUR 2,067 billion, minus 12.4% compared to this year. We would like to point out that from the reduction in contributions by 3 percentage points, the 'profit' of employees - profit in import, because it is not profit, as we have said - will still be a total of 1.21 points. This means that at the minimum wage of EUR 650, which is the vast majority of workers, the wage earner's contributions to the gross wage will be reduced by EUR 8 per month, by EUR 700 per month, by EUR 13 per month and by EUR 1 000 per month. These reductions in contributions will not go into the workers' pocket, as they say, because so far this has not been proven. On the contrary, we have extended unpaid work. And remember that employers are compelled to force the workers even the Christmas gift to take from the ATM and turn it back. The proposed reductions will have a major impact on the incomplete current protection of the unemployed, but then on health and insurance rights. Also, what is heard, that workers will get money, is a challenge, when the government at the same time as the previous ones broke down contracts, rights, wages, reaching 200 euros a month. Yes, 12% of the employees are rewarded with that pay. All governments have so far, with the memoranda, legislative acts and all legislative work, overturned wages, pensions, social benefits, cut health, education and welfare expenditure. All these overthrows, which have spread poverty, poverty, have been accompanied by regulations preventing the organization of the games, abolishing the right to strike, abolishing the minimum democratic rights of the people. The privatization of supplementary insurance, and not only the abolition of eight hours, the introduction of 10 hours, the abolition of overtime pay, the reduction of democratic and trade-liberal freedoms by means of a new trade union law - where trade union action, whatever fight for the defence of rights, will be regarded as a peculiar offence and will be prosecuted - are the ones announced by the Government and, of course, the ones you include in the Pissaridis report. This policy is the cause of unemployment, poverty, homelessness, vulnerable groups, abruptly barbaric and rotten system that you support and you shield it with state terrorism and authoritarianism, by reducing the democratic freedoms of the people. And in this bill the confrontation between New Democracy and SYRIZA, as well as the other parties, is about who best manages vulnerable groups, the homeless, the poor, who is to blame for who is most or less because the structures for the SME are behind the needs, to earn all the needs that the elderly care units are, in fact, non-existent, that the need for creative employment of children and children with disabilities grant it, in essence, to the private initiative, which the workers are under fixed-term contracts, uncertain and unsafe. In particular, these structures require stability. What, though, is the support of the welfare centres, which comes and tells us by the government, while in the welfare centres, hospitals, nursing homes, hospitals, which are under the supervision of the Ministry of Labour, the pandemic is spreading? At the time when the cases were reported to tens, both to the members of staff and to the staff, while a permanent employee lost her life, as in the "St. Panteleimon", is the Ministry of Labour dismissing subsidiary officials? The government comes in and chooses the path of subsidiary redundancies, under Article 17 of the bill, while social welfare centres are complaining that personnel are coming out of the way, sickens from COVID, when shifts are not coming out. It therefore dismisses ancillarys after six consecutive years of work. Today they work on COVID incidents and tomorrow they'll be on their way! According to the results of the 7K/2019 notice at least one hundred ASs will be on the road before 31 December 2020. The government chooses the path of voluntary movement of nurses from centre to centre, while workers know that they do not even reach their own shifts. The gaps created are huge. In these critical circumstances, there is no more than one employee. The JRC calls on the Ministry to proceed with the permanentisation of workers and to complete the process to extend even - such as the one given to health assistants by Article 20 - to October 2021. Moreover, the gaps in the procedure for the placement of young workers, the lack of presentation of some, their adaptation, the time required will be great and therefore this extension that we have to take. That is why we want the second paragraph of this article to be removed, which provides for the dismissal, essentially, of subsidiary officials. Overall, the provisions laid down in the Welfare articles are individual and fragmentary regulations, which are all integrated and serve the continuation of the policy of cuts and the faithful implementation of the anti-popular budgetary objectives. As the employees' representatives in the JAP and JAPDs have noted, the bill does not provide for funding, there is no mention of structures workers, as they are contractors for many years, as it does not touch the need to create new, public, which meets the needs of children. It leaves the ground for the development of private centres. The concerns expressed by workers for the formalities referred to in Article 1 that define the housing of municipal CSRs and CSRs as an exception, we are in favour of them and want this wording to be changed so that we clearly provide for the possibility of housing CSRs and CSRs - ACEs in school buildings. Some provisions relating to benefits to workers, pensioners, children and vulnerable groups, which we shall be voting on, we consider that they are insufficient benefits and cannot respond to requests and claims for decent income and pensions, for the protection of uninsured people's health care and for children. In some articles, the intention of limiting whatever costs, for example, housing assistance to uninsured elderly people, which from sixty-fifth years to sixty-seven years is reflected. Invoke the support of lawyers, engineers, doctors, middle class. You're doing a memorial! They shall pay for their participation in the Special Unemployment Account for the benefit of the Self-Employed and Independent Persons. So don't come here and say you're making social policy. The main core of the measures remains, in accordance with the European Union's poverty management strategy, for the minimum. That's what you're guaranteeing. It incorporates the Euro-Union logic of targeted benefits, with minimal benefits for the most impoverished. The minimum to everyone, to make capital competitive and to gain more. This is your policy: minimum income, minimum rights, minimum freedoms and minimum life! With such measures, there can be no support for vulnerable social groups, workers and the unemployed, as the title of the bill says. On the contrary, the government, in its policy, continues to reproduce armies of unemployed, vulnerable social groups and workers in the Middle Ages. The JRC tabled four amendments and we invite you to accept them because they respond to the need for immediate relief of the people. The amendments concern the following: the granting of one-off financial assistance to all the unemployed registered in the OAED Unemployment Register, as well as the beneficiaries of the unemployment assistance, self-employed, equal to EUR 600. The reintroduction and payment of the thirteenth and fourteenth wages and pensions for workers and pensioners, the Christmas and Easter gift, as we say. The payment by the State of the full Christmas holiday allowance and private sector workers who were in suspension of a contract or in the ‘Cooperation’ programme. Of course, we have also tabled the amendment on retroactive effect of the request for the recognition of service to the persons in the former OTE subsidiary insurance sector. At this point we want to recall the proposals for a law of the five hundred and thirty unions that the JRC has put forward to reintroduce the minimum wage to EUR 751, collective labour contracts, the amendment to relieve the people's households, the comprehensive proposal for a law on the integration into heavy and unhealthy health, for the abolition of auctions and other proposals which the Ministry of Labour considers to be fossil, but which only respond to the great dead ends of workers, people's families. However, you have all rejected them, because you do not want expenditure on workers. You want the state budget, whose revenues by 95% come from the robbery of workers and self-employed, to be at the disposal of the large business groups, which contribute 5% and, indeed, shipowners voluntarily. The Pissaridis report, of course, provides for greater exemptions for capital. With all this anti-Alpine arsenal, which bears witness to the symposium of all the urban parties, regardless of whether they are on the part of the government or the counter-population, one thing is certain: poverty, tolerance, unemployment will continue to be regenerated, while the necessary privileged benefits will continue to be crushed. The people have a path to choose: the way to break and overthrow with the barbarity of the system, the way to claim modern needs. The class labor movement organises this struggle to protect the health, life and rights of workers and the people by strike tomorrow on 26 November. The position of the vast majority of our people can only be with the struggle for life. The JRC gives all its powers to the right of workers and the people. We are voting 'no' in principle in the Ministry of Labour's bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u103	What do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u104	I'd like to testify for some of the legislators.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u105	You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u106	I need much less time, Mr President. I am tabling a series of legislative improvements. It is not an amendment to specialize in a number of legislative issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Maria Athanasios has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin with some thoughts about the World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. Violence or sexual, psychological, physical is compulsion and deprivation of freedom. The state is transformed into an accomplice when it does not legislate and create structures to prevent, investigate and correct this phenomenon. Violence against women and girls is a global pandemic, it is a moral insult to all women and girls, it is a sign of shame for all societies and an important obstacle to coherent, equal and sustainable development. At its core, violence against women and girls is the manifestation of a deep lack of respect, a failure by men to recognise the intrinsic equality and dignity of women. This is a fundamental human rights issue. We must therefore strengthen and transform our children' s message that women and men, girls and boys start from the same starting point, with the same supplies and capabilities and, above all, with the same respect. With regard to the ratification of the draft law on measures to assist workers and vulnerable social groups, we note in Articles 1 to 3 that CSR childcare centres, as well as CSR - AEOs, Creative Employment Centres for Disabled Children, are institutions of great importance for supplementing the State's educational work, which is about the creative employment of our children at an early age beyond school hours. Their importance, as we all understand, is very great. As such they should be treated by the state. Therefore, very important is the importance of their well-functioning in appropriate building infrastructures with staff trained, which is constantly being trained. CSRs cannot be a parking lot for children, just to pass their time until working parents do, because their function is mainly for this population group. Also, in the context of caring for people with special abilities or special needs, it is very important to ensure the issue of adequate accessibility, with special ramps of access both externally and internally. It is unfortunately a tradition of our state - as opposed to the other advanced states of the Western world - to behave with analgesia to people with mobility issues. This bad tradition gives rise to an additional reason why we are calling for the state's awareness of this issue. A sensitisation which will also find implementation in the slightest technical detail and personalised standards of housing areas. In order not to escape the slightest detail which is capable of causing problems for the people concerned. No one should be cut off from education and, much more, due to a lack of practical planning. As far as the age limits of the children concerned are concerned, our position is that employment should be able to start from four years ago, because, by applying two-year compulsory education for young people of this age, young people of this age, it is very important that they should enjoy the possibility of creative activities outside school hours, afternoons and summers, which is a request from the workers themselves, especially parents themselves. We consider it very necessary to staff with sufficient numbers of staff in the CSR and CSR - ACF - to ensure that the quality of the services provided does not fall short of the quality of the services to be provided. With regard to the electronic boxing referred to in Article 1(5), this should not be at the expense of the main work of CSR and CSR - AIA - that is to say, the state should take care to safeguard the adequacy of the staff and this necessary record, otherwise, should not employ a person from his or her main work, which is the creative employment of our children. Finally, we draw the attention of the Government, following the hearing of the parties involved, and the debate on the housing of the CIDs and CDEs in public school buildings. In particular, opinions were heard which do not comply with the housing of a CDI and CDI - ACE in public schools and school buildings, so that the child would change the environment. Where this is not possible, particularly in remote mountain or island areas, this may exceptionally be allowed. The Greek Solution insists on this, too, that the Government should avoid resorting to accommodation solutions in private school buildings, so that this regulation does not constitute an excuse for speculation by private teachers, by systematically housing a CIDS at the premises of their schools against dorms. To sum up, the Greek Solution considers that this draft law does not address the issues of ensuring the continuation of the operation of CSR and CSR - ACE of the municipalities, of supporting their economic viability and of their financing, of resolving the work problem of permanent and secure staff and of further training and training of specialised structures staff, in order to update their knowledge of their skills. With regard to Article 4, in accordance with the National Disabled Persons' Confederation, the term ‘incapable of any profession’, as well as the term ‘unable for work’, should be deleted from CEPOL opinions in order to avoid discrimination and exclusion of such persons from the constitutionally guaranteed right to work, since the person entitled to the specific qualification is, however, deprived of the right to registration, as is deprived of the right to be registered in the OAD’s unemployed’s registers of unemployed persons, of the right to work or of the use of other beneficial provisions. This term - which runs counter to the requirements of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which our country ratified in 2012 and adopted in 2017 - is degrading, anachronistic, tempting, tempting the persons who carry it and no longer fit into a law of a modern, favoured state. In Article 6, it should be mentioned that it is appropriate to avoid, by all appropriate means, the founding of infants and young children at the age of children, which creates serious and irreversible harm to their physical and mental development. Childhood care, in addition to our constitutional obligation, is a way of safeguarding the mental, emotional, spiritual and physical health of these children and tomorrow's adult citizens. The healthier childhood, the healthier adult life and the more conscious social inclusion and fertile activity, public and private. Children who remain in institutions are cut off by healthy social standards and lack significant reference persons for the rest of their lives. This print is accompanied by life, with emotional and psychological gaps, which cannot be replaced at an early age. You should therefore take care with additional provision to ensure that no minors aged between zero and six years are placed in an institution - a child protection unit of any kind, internal organisation and pedagogical framework and for no reason whatsoever. You should exhaust the boundaries of adoption or even assumption and only if it is impossible to find permanent foster or foster family will assume foster parents of first-care care for the minor. Furthermore, in the event of a failure to find any foster family, particularly in cases of serious disabilities and diseases where increased and specific care is needed, only the minor will be placed in a structure for the protection of minors, where all measures to find a foster family and connect the child to the volunteers of the organisation will be taken. With regard to Article 11, "Social policy exercise from the revenues of the State Lottery Social Intelligence - Amendment of an authorised provision", the Greek Solution is concerned about the criteria whereby the wealth collected by the taxpayers of Greek citizens will be made available from the disposal of the State Lottery. Will it be social? Who's gonna put them? Will the Greek families, who are deprived of many privileges and benefits in their own homeland, be preceded by the moment when supposed immigrants - refugees and their families enjoy these privileges? The government should show practically its announcement of the constitutionally guaranteed support of the Greek family. Gentlemen, this legislation continues to adopt the opaque tactics of the distribution of public profits from the revenues of the State Lottery of Social Understanding by common ministerial decisions setting out the conditions and the procedure for the disposal, management and distribution of the net revenues of the State New Year's Lottery Social Concept by delegation to legal entities governed by public law and legal persons of a non-profit-making nature, procedures that in our memory draw back the good practices of the past, which were a way of non-transparent donations and favors, and, in the expression of the honorable Lady State Secretary, without a specific method. The Government is therefore called upon to block the opacity of the distribution of public wealth, following objective criteria, transparent procedures and justice. The Greek Solution therefore considers it appropriate, as regards the grant to legal persons under private law, to complete the term ‘specially certified in respect of all their structures or actions’ in order to eliminate the risks of the splitting up of public money to be collected from the revenues of the State Lottery. With regard to Article 12 on the grant of private-law legal persons providing social-care services, the Greek Solution retains serious reservations. The provision may be dangerous and may lead to the favour of non-profit-making non-profit legal grants which provide social care services if they are certified. The state will certainly have to carry out a thorough review of both the institutions and the absorption and exploitation of the funds prepared for the benefit of the Greek people. Articles 13 and 14 describe the arrangements for the protection of unaccompanied minors entering the Greek territory. Once again the government has left Greek citizens in towns where hot spot defenseless in the hands of illegal poachers have been created. You leave the Greeks permanently exposed to malicious and criminal elements and exterior to despair and feeling of abandonment. Turkey is taking immediate advantage of this, with its aggressive rhetoric, and is taking steps to defend itself. It must be thoroughly checked who the unaccompanied minors really are. In many cases they are adults pretending to be minors. In Article 18, for the incompatibilities of the probative benefits, the Greek Solution considers that this is a positive provision at first instance. The state is, however, obliged to ensure at least a decent daily life of its non-preferential citizens, in addition to free access to constitutionally guaranteed rights. At the same time, however, the State should not offer immunity to natural and legal persons who prove themselves to be liable to pay taxes and contributions, even though they are able to exploit the general situation and promote inability to pay, so that they do not pay back their obligations, thereby acting at the expense of every citizen concerned. In Article 24, on the housing allowance for uninsured overtime, the sixty-seven-year limit fixed is excessive and leaves many elderly people out of regulation who are deprived of these self-evident privileges. Many of us are approaching this age. Let us consider ourselves homeless and helpless at sixty - five of us. With what courage and what forces can we withstand, not only the real conditions, but also the feeling of abandonment and rejection of the state? And how many of the impoverished elderly will have the powers to reach their sixty-seven? On the other hand, the income criteria you set in this article are such as to exclude the favourite arrangements of elderly people with the poor income of EUR 370 per month, which, as it is obvious, is not enough, nor is it absolutely essential. Articles 32 and 35 should broaden the concept of the designation of ‘inflated sectors’. In this sense, industries that have been directly affected should also be integrated, by reducing or neutralising the turnover, but also by gains foregone from side economic losses, malfunctioning the sectors involved and difficulties due to the impairment of economic activity. In particular, doctors should also be included in the affected branches, due to the specific nature of their work in the pandemic. Due to exposure to increased viral load, they are voluntaryly integrated into self-limitation days, resulting in stopping patients, stopping conducting diagnostic tests, stopping operating and thus being affected. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I will also use the time of my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u109	That is not the case, my fellow Member, you will simply have a small tolerance, just like everyone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u110	Thank you. Then it is worth pointing out in Article 33 the reintegration of affected debtors into a scheme for regulating debts to insurers. However, at this point we will mention the need to take care for effective relief of the insured professional groups, which will provide them with security and protection against the particular circumstances and consequences that arise. You must take strong measures to support the affected professional groups, such as providing security and sustainability for professionals, who mainly support the economic activity of our country. It is worth noting at this point that you have not yet anticipated the suspension of the payment of insurance contributions from the selfemployed and the self-employed who are affected by the new incarceration. We expect you to do this. In Articles 39 and 40, in the context of the simplification of procedures for granting insurance information, you should be given immediate care to ensure that the required documents are issued promptly, in order to remove undue waiting phenomena for the favoured State, at risk of shipwrecking due to untimely collection, and to synchronise the procedures with adequate and qualified staff and with technology, which can support the granting of all the required certificates and confirmatory documents directly and effectively. In Article 42, ‘Digital transformation — Procedures for the award of the pension ‘ATLAS’ and a one-off provision to insured public forces, Security and OTA bodies’, more groups of workers, such as doctors, should be integrated until they are deprived of their pension. Article 44, ‘Increasing the development of two-sided orphans’ is a positive arrangement, but it will certainly have to be complemented by state care provisions in other important areas of the social and human status of these children, who are lacking in parental care. Take care also of their subsequent social training and normal social integration. Article 45 raises one of the most sensitive health issues, the issue of cystic fibrosis, fatal disease, and permanent orthostatic disorder. The beneficiaries and beneficiaries of this article, however, should definitely also be added to the heartworm transplanted, a liver, which is well suited to join in the same category, because they have the same vulnerability and risk. Article 62 should definitely extend the conditions for the qualification of a person as a beneficiary of the concession of impurities and vacant dwellings by the OAED. The building and maintenance of these dwellings has been financed by the savings of the taxpayer Greek people for housing our most vulnerable fellow citizens. And we ask ourselves: What are the government's intentions, Minister? Are these dwellings actually meant for families of vulnerable Greeks, or do you have in mind converting these dwellings into camps of legal and non-immigrant and non-beneficiary? We also asked you in committee, but you did not answer us. Be very careful about the hundreds of twenty-thousand fifty houses in Greek families who are almost or really on the street and are the most beneficiaries of these houses. Article 63 only strengthens a small group of the long-term unemployed, those who have occasional work contracts up to seventy days a year. So, if he's got seventy days, he can support himself and the family? To conclude, the Greek Solution promotes the protection of Greek untreated and affected professionals and their families, who, following the extreme ten years of social and economic crisis, are also invited to face the unprecedented consequences of the pandemic. Let them not be alone, Minister. It's up to your government. On the other hand, we, who have been honoured by the Greek people's vote and who are charged with the parliamentary work, must be free to take care of the citizens' concerns, to inspire them trust and sense of security, by voting for legislation which they will actually act in favour of their interests. The Greek Solution in principle votes'residents'. But, Mr President, I would like to end with the work of the doctors of the ESS, like the other health personnel in the fight against the coronary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u111	Leave these for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u112	Very little, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u113	I've already given you three more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u114	I would ask you to remind the Prime Minister of his commitment, Mr President, on 30-6-2020, to heavy and unhealthy things that have so far been unsatisfactory, but which excludes them from the Christmas present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Athanasios. We'll hang up with my colleague from Mera25 Mrs. Maria Apajidis. Then listen to how the process is shaped. Mr Velopoulos had asked for the floor. After Mr. Velopoulos, the Minister. Also, Mr. Varoufakis has asked to speak. He hasn't told us yet. If Mr. Varoufakis enters the Chamber during the Minister's speech, he will speak after the Minister. So far - in order to hear it - it is to speak three parliamentary representatives: Mr Skourletis, Mr Loverdes and Mr Gregoriadis. Here, Mrs. Apajidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today entitled 'Support measures for workers and vulnerable social groups, social security regulations and provisions for the support of the unemployed' comes to a vote in Parliament in the context of the unprecedented circumstances we are experiencing. It comes in an extremely critical and difficult period for Greek society and economy, in the midst of pandemic, restrictions and curfews, and ejection of cases and deaths. Unfortunately, the psychological limit of our three-digit number of deaths of fellow citizens was recently exceeded every day. At the same time, the National Health System is under suffocating pressure. As a government representing the interests and protagonists of the parasitic oligarchy, Mr Mitsotakis' government not only stubbornly refuses to do what is essential to strengthen the national health system, but he has consciously chosen not to create a public system of mass tests because of commitments to private health. That's why he's lost control of the pandemic, as the sadly negative records break one after another. In the field of education, the New Democracy Government has been out of place and time, something that has been clear from the outset. Instead of strengthening public education before summer, he legislated cuts in funds, reductions in staff and an increase in the number of pupils per class. As a result, the schools closed down with the second lockdown, and the doll went through the television fiasco. This draft law cannot be judged independently of the context. Unemployment is scoring and job precariousness is dominating. Citizens' incomes are suffocating, while they live under new restrictive measures. Society as a whole is at the edge of its resilience, while the dual health and economic crisis has caused significant negative effects on the labour market and the lives of workers and citizens. Indicative of the situation is the following: According to the annual report of the Institute of Labour of GSE, in the second quarter of 2020 real GDP fell by 15.2%. Mr. Varoufakis will tell you better. The average monthly wage fell by about 10% compared to the same quarter of 2019, at the same time as job suspension and rotating work puts citizens even more pressure on them. More than seven out of ten employees have a wage of less than EUR 1,000, while the rate of employees with a salary of up to EUR 200 has been launched in the midst of a pandemic. Exploded from 1% in the first quarter of 2019 to 12% in the same quarter of 2020 and is expected to increase. Remunerations of EUR 200, but the pandemic and its management do not have class characteristics. Unemployment is estimated to be around 20%, a figure that this year is translated into a reduction in employment by about 50 000 people. At the same time, in the area of suspension of contracts, namely between underemployment and unemployment, there are about eighty thousand workers. The risk of mass poverty is enormous and is even greater, because most of them receive at least 50% less pay than their actual salary. Ladies and gentlemen, given the nature and content of the bill, I believe that it is worth a description of what constitutes social welfare and solidarity and of the government on the one hand and of the political areas, such as the one I represent, on the other. Because this difference offers a radically different approach for each proposed measure. It should be noted that inevitably social welfare and solidarity for the domestic neo-democratic version of neoliberalism means the settlement and partial treatment of a necessary evil. The necessary evil that there are in our society and those who have not achieved, in the neo-democratic sense of individual success, starting with the same and the same starting point for everyone, as if there were no class differences. The necessary evil that there were our weak and vulnerable fellow citizens, fellow citizens who need relief and support, and who, of course, according to the criteria of the current ideology, failed in life because they did not show the same temptation to the advances of excellence, individual initiative and possibly entrepreneurship. Therefore, any arrangement of welfare and solidarity by the Government of New Democracy if it wants to be faithful to its ideology and to the way it is constantly and constantly politicizing is an inconvenience, but one that needs to be addressed with the least common denominator. On the other hand, the content of social welfare and solidarity for political areas such as the one I have the honour of representing are framed in a radically different way. In our political perceptions, solidarity is the only way to make social progress and self-evident, the absolutely necessary self-defense of society in the law of the jungle, which would be unreasonable without it. In the law of the jungle, class differences, the radically different starting point from which everyone begins the lives of the different means and margins of defense of each of us, in difficulties, reversals of life, depending on the material means, which are not dependent on each other's personal value, but are related to their particular socio-economic order. I will not go any further into the social welfare problem. It is impossible, however, not to note the irony of the time that this bill is coming for a vote. Let us not forget that the bill we are discussing comes after a new law on the Banking Code, an isotopeic law - monstrousism, where generalized pillage from foreign funds of private wealth left in Greece and the transfer of the private property of many to the predators, their expropriation and mass export from our country. This destructive legislative abstention, which violates the Constitution, will follow the revised draft budget of the Government of New Democracy for 2021, which provides for a reduction in health expenditure, a budget which introduces us into a new austerity period and the fifth memorandum. The first polynomial plan is the bankruptcy law, which turns the country into a summation of multiple small private debt ensembles that will sustain the overall servile regime. In this broader context and under the conditions described, the Government has shown this draft law, which essentially expresses its concern to gain even a hypocritical social consensus, a elementary legalisation. We do not first see the fact that, in accordance with Article 5, for the period from 25 May to 31 July 2020, the compensation paid to the NRAs, whose operation has been suspended in the context of measures to combat pandemic and which have reopened with capacity reduced by 50%. This is independent of the length of stay of the beneficiaries in the two-day and day-care centres. We are, however, obliged to approach every measure within the framework and the conditions I described earlier. It is a positive attitude to Article 4, to extend the minimum guaranteed income to the homeless and female victims of violence who are hosted in hospitals and women's victims of violence, provided, of course, that deceptive expressions and degrading characterisations are removed, such as 'persons incapable of work'. The competent body has also told you. I think you have heard them and will do them accordingly. In Article 7, we find a provision which is embarrassing. ‘Administrative interconnection of the OPEKA and of the Community and the Holy Epistaxia of Mount Athos with the appointment of a representative of the Holy Epistaxia of Mount Athos at the OPEKA’. According to the explanatory statement, as the establishment of the Agency for the Preferential Benefits and Social Solidarity - OPEKA, former OGA - these beneficiaries are served through the institution of the OGA correspondent. With the establishment of the OPEKA and the abolition of the institution of correspondents, no specific structure was foreseen for their service, so that the Monks of Mount Athos do not have information and unfettered access to the pre-predictable OPEKA programmes. We are therefore informed of the status of the Ayorite monk as the beneficiary of preferential benefits or social solidarity benefits. We have no mood as a PART25 of an easy anti-historic position. What is involved, though, in the promotional benefits and social solidarity benefits to those who have chosen to become Ayorites monks, that is, to deny the world? The renouncers of the world Ayoreite monks how exactly are they turned into recipients of state allowances, at the same time, where the multitude of unpaid unemployed are literally outside of all welfare, precisely because of their unpaid status? What exactly general logic and welfare is served by the appointment of a representative of the Holy Athos Episia to the Organisation of Promoting Benefit and Social Solidarity, how much more so when Mount Athos is part of the Constitution a self-sufficient part of the Greek state? I am afraid that all these are questions which will not be answered very simply. With regard to Articles 9 and 10, we note that we do not always object to extensions of deadlines for submission in order to settle the rights of all rightholders. The formerly welcomed, but truly inadequate, provisions of Article 15, according to which a programme called "House and Work for the Homeless" is being established, which is aimed at individuals and families living in constellation and which complements the implementation of public policies against homelessness, bring us before us incontroversy or irony: The authors of the same policy that is causing, causing and creating the homelessness, the self-sufficient, that is, the policy that evicts our fellow citizens into our tolerance, then come to provide help and support for the victims of their manipulations. The provisions of Article 18 for the monthly pension of uninsured overtime, the social solidarity allowance for uninsured overtime and the monthly financial assistance of homosexuals are the absolute minimum for the very survival of our fellow citizens. We have already pointed this out to you as Mera25, and that is why I do not want, Minister, to expand. Article 31 reduces by three points the insurance contributions of workers and employers for 2021. However, at this juncture, this reduction is likely to create more problems than it is supposed to solve, as was rightly pointed out at the committee meeting. We have a deterioration and degradation of the OAED, as there is a reduction in contributions to OAED by three percentage points, following the reduction of 1 June 2020 by 0.9% percentage points. The only thing that the summer regulation has managed was to create a deficit in this agency of EUR 200 million. In other words, institutionalised resources related to the unemployed are being reduced and crumbs are being given to the majority of workers, on the one hand, while on the other hand, bonuses are being given to entrepreneurs, especially to those who employ many workers, as the proportion of the reduction is in favour of employers. The most important thing, however, is the deprivation of essential resources by the OAED, which are related to the necessary funding of measures in the context of the response to the health crisis, but also to the end, which will require training and upgrading of the skills of employers and workers. The provision does not take into account that a number of OAU actions and programmes are at stake, particularly in the area of social and housing policy, such as long-term unemployment programmes, for unemployed persons over 50 years of age, and for IAEA programmes, which in fact support age groups excluded from the labour market. Finally, the government's method of reducing insurance contributions should be seen in the context of a concept that seeks to exempt the State from the responsibility for taking part in insurance, a concept promoted by the Pissaridis report, which the Merra25 has commented on in paragraph and which restores point to point. Both cases of one-off financial assistance under Article 66 and, in the case of a reduction in the insurance contributions to which I referred earlier, the Government is self-sufficient and without second thought, devoid of the needs of society and extend the State's charity with this concept of charity to be the only way to frame social welfare and solidarity in the government programme. This mid-term choreography, which has now been relegated to art, is an indicative symptom of how the government and the government are politicizing and legislating a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time as we are discussing a draft law entitled 'Support measures for workers and vulnerable social groups, socio-security regulations and provisions for the strengthening of the unemployed', we expect the Minister's earlier draft law entitled 'Confidence of labour market issues' and all the information we have described as a roller on labour rights, providing for deregulation of the overtime system, unpaid overtime, reduction of redundancies and all the information that the Minister has given us. One wonders what the tactics of the small carrot and the gigantic whip are about to follow in a short space of time. It goes without saying that we will not vote against specific provisions of the bill, which, if they are to be seen individually and without the wider context in which they are integrated, are even few fragmentary improvements - we will vote in favour of measures such as the extensions of deadlines for submission - or even minimum provision for housing for the support of our homeless fellow citizens, which, however, is far from the minimum needs for a decent living. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute and I'll still need it, Mr. President. It would be a great mistake, however, to take this attitude as a message that we do not see, that we do not understand the context within which the government operates and the direction it has chosen. We are not being disoriented from any minor interventions with an individual positive mark, neither are we nor the citizens. However, citizens urgently need protection from government policies and no disorientation - as an appetizer to the labour law that is about to be filed by the Ministry - does not reduce the reality of this diagnosis. That is why we will vote 'no' in the first place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u117	Me too, my colleague. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, has the floor. Here, Mr. Velopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start with a policy - within introductory terms - 'false'. It is not possible for the leaders of the parties, Mr President, to learn from the journalists that the Prime Minister can speak today. I think that politically moral, in order not to use any thoughtless expression and annoy some and they will be right, it is for the Prime Minister to inform the parties' leaders and not selectively, say, Mr Tsipras or Mrs Gennamas and the rest of them not, because I would very much like to hear the Prime Minister put forward. And these sounds - touches, I come - I do not come, I will come - I will not come, okay, at some point, they do not help when we talk about pandemic and we want national unity, we want common lines and attitudes towards politics. I don't know if I'm wrong. I think what I'm saying is right. I would just like to say that, rather than yesterday's McCrone, the Prime Minister took his lesson and will come here to announce - probably - that on 15 December all - is what France did yesterday - they are opening the schools. What can schools open? Christmas is next. He has, in other words, taken European osmosis and is starting to come and tell us here. I think these are mistakes. And I think these are mistakes, because at the pandemic you must inform the political leaders first and then come to Parliament to speak to Parliament as well and say that you have decided to do so. Unfortunately, for fifty years the Greek political system has not seen the fact that even in times of pandemic or national issues at least there must be equal support, viewpoint, perception and information from the political leaders. You know, Mr. Loverdos, there's a difficulty. I see you being here every day, morning, noon, night. You are keeping the PASOK - it is good - with your presence in Parliament. But it is very difficult for a political leader to speak of a matter which is particularly serious when the Turks are 5.8 nautical miles from Rhodes. I don't know, I mean, how far can this story arrive? I do not want to change the agenda, but I do consider it bad for it to be 5.8 nautical miles out of Rhodes with NAVTEX that they demanded. So we find that the twelve were six, six and six, eight, we'll go three, two. I am sure that at some point the "ORUCS REYS" will reach Omonia, we will decorate it with lamps for Christmas. That's what's gonna happen. Unfortunately, it is a tragedy and unfortunately there is no common cruise from the political leaders. I'm no longer talking about meeting political leaders. I don't think it's necessary anymore. Here, in order for the Prime Minister of the country to speak about the pandemic, he does not inform anyone. He's doing everything himself. Yesterday and this morning Mr Tsavosoglu bailed again. He talked about Thrace. I'm afraid we're making mistakes. Even the committee responsible that was previously set up under Mrs Bakoyannis - I had my objections to the person, we did not vote on it - is not working properly. And I will give an example, Mr Loverdos, because you know at least from legally very well. So they are sent by an e-mail from a lady representing a group of Thrace Muslims, because for me they are Muslim brothers. Our brothers are Muslims in Thrace. I could use it differently, that the rest of it was meditated, but I leave it. The e-mail says he is a representative of a Turkish minority. The e-mail is sent by Komotini or by Xanthi and the committee accepts it, and the members of the committee receive it. This is a voluntary recognition on our part that there is a Turkish minority, yes or no? Ninety. Because if it's inadvertent, we need to send back the e-mail of the lady who sent it. There are many such e-mails that the committee collects and it is strange for me that this committee operates in secret. They're not practically detained and we don't have a video. Mrs Bakoyannis goes on her own, without members of the committee and without information and talks with representatives of Turkish associations, as they define themselves. I too can define myself as an alien, but the right to self-determination concerns the individual, not collectiveity. Am I mistaken to my law, Mr. Loverdos? That's right. So how does Mrs Bakoyannis meet clubs like this without informing the committee? I am very concerned and I keep it, I repeat, because I fear that we may leave. We cannot intentionally or inadvertently recognise such tactics and practices, which will lead to ferry doors in Thrace. Because Cavusoglu said it today and yesterday that Thrace for us is a major issue. So we must be careful about every move we make. We're going to the economy, because I'm going to talk about the bill, Minister. Mr. Brutsis is a friend from the old days. We've known each other for twenty years, Minister. I consider him a worthy man, but I think the government is not worthy and I will prove it to you. I remember that you too, Mr. Brutsi, and all the top officials of the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Stakoras, were telling us about a 4% recession. At first you told us about 2.5% -3%, I remember, in February. It's an escalation. He went to 4% in May, 5% went in September-October. We here - with Mr Viliardou I remember - insisted on 10% minimum. Nowadays, Mr Brutsi, the number is now officially coming out: about 10%. Here we have two facts. Or you're completely incompetent and you can't predict developments - they can't only be predicted by the Greek Solution, we say number - or resign. There's nothing else. So in politics when you make such mistakes, you talk about a recession of 2% and we have 10%, what would the Greek citizen then expect from the politician? In the final interpretation, the politician must take care of what he says and, above all, prevent. Now, as far as he is concerned, unfortunately, in the last fifteen days your ministers have become popular, they speak a lot and make tragic mistakes. I won't say about Adon Georgiadis' statements about fairs and dances. I will not say about Mr Gerapetititi's statements with the ICMs or other statements. But I want to make a statement and I say it in the New Democracy. Fifteen days ago, Mr. Papathanase told us that the market would open. You do not say that, Mr Colleague, the relevant Minister says that the market will open on 1 December, because the businessman who listens to you is preparing. Why don't you have a shop and we're done, we've opened it, and we're in. It's got to be powered by the store. Maybe some people have prepared for this. So these are tragic mistakes. There's not even a child of infancy. The less you speak in time of judgment, the less you make mistakes. This is where you talk a lot and you keep making mistakes. That's weird. Let's go to the bill now. I'm not going to say anything, but I'm going to say something specific, Minister. Good or bad, we'll see them in article. I did not understand why you did not answer Mrs Athanasios's questions as to whether the term'sensitive groups' relates to immigrants. You did not answer the multiple calls - questions. You didn't say what's on the inside. In other words, you are talking about positive measures, but they are not about Greeks, they are also about illegal immigrants. No one answered that. Of course, I will also do this as far as I can to show you that you are making criminal mistakes. I have before me the budget you have already tabled. Listen a little. Don't leave me, Minister, I want you here. Don't leave me now. Do you know how much money, ladies and gentlemen, do you have for illegal immigrants? It is EUR 564 million - I am tabling it in the Minutes of the House - for illegal immigrants. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is 564m euros in the budget, Mr Loverdos, for illegal immigrants. One drone makes 5 million euros, with a hundred aggressive drones Greece would be armored by the Turks once and for all. I'm telling you, we could buy them, not we could make them, I'm just telling you. Of the 564 million, 414 million are from the Greek budget, from the Greek pocket! Not the fairy tale of the New Democracy, SYRIZA and the rest of us in here, that the money is being given by the European Union. So these are messages that bother me as a human, really. And when he comes out today "ATTIA" with a whole headline report that there is a classified report from the police that 25% of the inhabitants of Attica are illegal immigrants, we have an issue, ladies and gentlemen. It's called the classified police report. There's something we don't do well, and I'm saying it so you can figure it out. Now, let's go to the contradictions...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u119	25% of the city of Athens, not Attica.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u120	Is it a bit, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u121	It's different.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u122	Okay. I'm Thessalonikos, forgive me the mistake. You're right. So the Municipality of Athens is Mr. Kaklamanis, who is from the 1st of Athens and to vote for him because it is consistent, at least, what he says. Clear things. I made you a promotion, Mr. Kaklamani.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u123	Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u124	But we're actually going. We have huge contradictions from the New Democracy and huge mistakes. So I will tell you the very simple things that a young man asked me at the age of twenty-five yesterday, when the plane was flying, and he says: 'Mr. Velopoulou, illegal immigrants and protests do not fit the coronary? Illegal immigration and demonstrations do not fit?' In a parade, though. And in the parade neither of us should have gone and neither the Prime Minister nor any party leader from here from outside the Unknown Soldier to testify a wreath. Also, in public transport, he says, it doesn't fit. After nine o'clock at night, we all have to go in. It doesn't stick to jogging - we have to jogging - but fishing and hunting sticks the coronary. I'm telling you about contradictions! It doesn't fit in mosques. If you go to the Botanic, the mosque works properly, Mr. Loverdo. It has not been closed, it works properly, and without masks they go in, because they think there is no water in their room of ritual Muslims with a mask, know it. Take a look at that. In a church, however, it sticks. It is not by chance today's report of the German press, which does inappropriately attack against Greece for the Divine Society. Oddly, German newspapers of today's German press attack Greece for the Divine Society. Because Protestantism can't understand what faith means or what metaphysics means. Here, believe or not. Let's go to the rest. The chairman of the National Committee for Vaccines, my Minister, Mrs Maria Theodoridou - I always use statements from people who have a serious view - says: 'Earms have not yet been approved by an international organisation'. You bought vaccines. Tell me why you bought them. They have not been approved by an international organisation. How do we buy something when it's not approved? I ask, my rhetoric question. How do we pay to get something without it being approved? The chairman of the National Committee for Vaccines says: "Masks and distances after vaccines. Studies in people over eighteen years of age have only been carried out and not in children.’ The chairman of the National Committee for Vaccines says so! He said so in a meeting with Mrs. Athanasios who took place the other day, Mr. Loverdos! Will you take your nephew, a six-year-old child, to have a vaccine when no studies have been carried out for under the age of eighteen? How are you gonna do that? How do you play a crown - letters a man's life? That's what the President says. It also says that we took twenty - five million vaccines. What population does Greece have, so I can understand? Eleven million aren't we saying we are? Eleven times two is twenty-two. How do you get twenty-five? You tell me. Because the President said we would give them to poor people in other countries! Insolent Greece buys vaccines to give them to poor people in other countries! No, that's not it! Why don't they dare say that we have about two and a half million illegal immigrants in Greece! They don't dare say that! And a lot more I can say. I will not say about the complications of the money between big colossals and the others, that Bill Gates has given the PFIZER money. And now here's how the system works. It is not just in Greece that the system of rotten, ladies and gentlemen. I won't say that. Listen, just so you know what's going on: Big colossians give money to big newspapers worldwide to sell the vaccine. I understand it, it's marketing. Besides, do not tell me that some companies are ‘holy companies’, ‘PFIZER’, ‘GlaXO’, ‘NOVARTIS’ and all others. Don't you know that they've greededed people in Greece? World, doctors, who are scientists, Mr. Loverdo. The scientists then gave it to the scientists and prescribing, they took money from the scientists. Who guarantees me that those scientists who today go out on the windows have not been oiled - I will not say it like that - have not helped a little more financially so that people can say something good for the company? I say, 'cause I'm a bad option in my mind, and I'm not as gullible as you. Army Plomaritis: SYRIZA Man is the man, if I'm not mistaken. He resigned for ethical and ethical reasons for the mandatoryity of the vaccine. Who are you to decide in here or Mr Mitsotakis' government on the mandatory vaccine? Who are we to decide for ten million people in here without being scientists when scientists react? Tell me about it. Mandatory? Optional, I understand, whoever wants to go and do it. Why does he save and make it compulsory? And I'm going to make you a proposal, and I'm telling the Prime Minister, who's coming later, I imagine: If they're so sure, these hundreds who want to be vaccinated by politicians will go to a vaccine themselves, Mr. Loverdos, they're going to a ICU after they've got COVID, they're gonna sit in, they're going to be out on a 24-hour front and walk and, if they don't get stuck in 15-day krone, we're gonna talk about it. To be these experimental animals, these followers of the mandatory vaccine. And I answer Mr. Porte - what's this gentleman's name? - who said stupid to anyone who disagrees. If you're an idiot because you disagree with arguments, then you're a multiple idiot if you're trying to enforce something without having the guarantees to prove that it has no side effects. Because it has side effects and everyone says so. Bill Gates said he's got side effects. It makes sense, it's a medicine, you guys! Each medicine has a side effect. Let's go to the rest. And of course I should like to say to them - and again to say - that the state, Mr Loverdo - must be the state - and I also want the Change Movement from both SYRIZA and the other parties to say that - that it has civil responsibilities and criminal responsibilities, so that, if it has side effects, people suffer and do so on a voluntary basis, people can be compensated, Mr Loverdo. That is what I say to the Prime Minister who wants to do it, because, when you oblige someone to do it, it means that civil and criminal liability will no longer be about God who has not shown himself to live, it will be about the person who imposed the vaccine. I would also remind you that the ASTRAZENCA has imposed EUR 1.1 billion fines and $ 4.7 billion on the known company, PFIZER. I fined, not because it's St. Apostle and Apostle Paul and St. Catherine who is celebrating - for years, a lot in Katerina, I don't know who's in here - no, but why they did illegal acts. Mrs Alexopoulou is here, anyway, and we wish her many years. I'm saying that, to understand that something is wrong and something is wrong. Denmark cannot come out and withdraw the forced vaccination. Denmark! Nor can Germany go out and say the same thing and go out all the parties here curiously and all the journalists - the well-known parrots - and you want to force the Greek people to make a vaccine that you are not sure will not have any side effects. You have also not yet been apologised, Minister, for the EVA algorithm, which was wrong. We're going to another crime, so I can slowly close, because time is pushing me. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, aren't you embarrassed? Honestly I say that, I'm ashamed of myself as a human being to watch ITH enter camera journalists, get into PTT journalists with cameras. That's where the relative can't go. You put them in the cameras to scare the world! Why is this thing going on? Where is the rhetoric of the PSE, the "old-ass-ass" of the unemployed, useless, why are they being paid and not working? The president of the EPP himself said that up here. But only to me do you know how to do, Mr. Col. Journalist of the PSE, magic. Eighty-eight checks he did in a year, forty of them concern me for a show of mine. That's the PSE. The camera enters the ICU and looks like a person intubated, do we understand that? The other is sixty, seventy years old in his home, he may also have a disease subject, he frightens, he catchs stress, stress. Those who are doctors in here know that's how your immune system falls. Just stuff! And tell me, what do we have to show the ITHs? What is the need, the need? I don't get it. How are they coming in? Somebody tell me how these gentlemen get inside of me. And of course, I'll say one more thing. I hope the Archbishop is okay, but what happened bothered me. I call it public. Is it possible, guys, that they have different VIP treatments, as today in the press? So it was said, he had a different cure, took drugs from America. Why, Mr. Loverdos? The simple man, the people, the wager, the retired person who's inside the ICU can't have the medicine from America? Will Velopoulos only have it? Why? Isn't that unfair? He took Trump's medicine, Mr. Loverdo, that's what they say. And I say: Trump not to happen, you'll tell me now, that's another matter. Anyone who wants to choose. So I say that something is wrong, that's not right. God doesn't want that. Let's go to the rest. The clinical directors are coming out and saying something simple, Mr Loverdo: March the story, gentlemen of the New Democracy, began - so I tell you that you are not doing to govern - and they say that we are not prepared for COVID. Now, ten days ago, the president of the cemeteries said so. He says we don't have education and preparation for COVID in our clinics. New Democracy was not required - and SYRIZA said so, I remember, and he was right - since March to tell the clinicians "Come here, train for the ICUs, train, you can check" and he goes out and says "we don't know anything". So that means you're not taking care of it. You're running behind the developments. And I'll give an example, because you're making mistakes again. Germany does not have three or five or ten thousand ICUs, ladies and gentlemen. Germany has thirty thousand ICUs. Because you do this, use the arithmetic as it suits you. You're saying that Greece has a thousand two hundred ICUs. Lie, for other coronary IDs and other IDs, the others that are needed for the other diseases. It's two things different, you put them together in one and you say a thousand two hundred. It's not a thousand two hundred, it's five hundred for an IF and seven hundred for other diseases. Germany has thirty thousand, ninety million people. Normally Greece had to have five thousand ICUs, to be safe for all of us and not to run now each of us and to look for, "Find a ICU, search for ICUs, close Thessaloniki, put tents". What are these things? Since March this is happening, it's not current. At least three and a half thousand ICUs had to have Greece, at least, minimum, compared with Germany.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u125	Mr President, we are slowly closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u126	Hello?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u127	Slowly, please, shut down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u128	We'll close, we haven't even opened, of course, but it's okay. Let's go to the rest, and I'll close here, Mr. President, after you interrupted me, it's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u129	I've been pleading.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u130	I would like this to be done at all times to all the Presidents, of course, that's all right. It's the weaknesses you have. So let's go to a scandal that's been taking place for a decade and thankfully Mr. Voutiss here, I want him to listen to me. The Constitution defines five independent principles, five ladies and gentlemen! Do you know how many we have? Thirty-two! Wait a minute! Total cost of thirty-two independent authorities - listen to the number! - from around EUR 300 million to EUR 600 million per year, because we are looking for data and cannot find it. It is up to EUR 600 million per year, the independent authorities. They sit at the offices and these gentlemen are paid. Could there not be a small committee from each party from two people, from one person, from one scientific partner and not pay these 600 million euros a year and do IF, take weapons, drones, aircraft and so on? Ten years 600m euros are EUR 6 billion for independent authorities. Now, in order to close it: one hundred and twenty-six people have, Mr President, the RAE payroll, 300 grand is wage costs and 400,000 euros a year. Seven people, the plenary members get 400,000 euros payroll. As far as the PSE is concerned, we are talking about EUR 205,000 to sit, Mr Voutsi. Here we go: the Competition Committee: 4,910,000 euros, money! SAEP: EUR 20 million. Citizens' attorney: 28 million. Do you understand? If an average of EUR 20 million is each independent authority, it is about EUR 620 million per year. No ID, no drones, no planes, that in ten years. So here's what the House will do, Mr. Voutsi! Let me tell you this: To make all parties with representatives of small commissions proportionately, to abolish the five at ten, the five to stay, the rest to be abolished, to take from two scientific partners and to do their job. If they don't do a job, they're sitting. They're paid. The ERR really sits, doesn't work, and I'll prove it to you now. Report by Mr Loverdos, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (COM(86) 613 final — Doc. "SKAI": Seventy-five times New Democracy, sixteen SYRIZA, two of you, Mr. Loverdos, zero us, but the rest of us, to tell you everything. ERT: Thirty-seven New Democracy, sixteen SYRIZA, five Change Movement - they love you more - and we have three, but with my presence as President. We haven't taken note of Mrs. Gennamas who went there. "OPEN": Thirty-three New Democracy, twenty-four SYRIZA, six Change Movement, zero us and the rest. 'ANT1': Thirty-two presentations by New Democracy, fifteen by SYRIZA, one by the Change Movement - why is 'ANT1', Mr Loverdos? - None of us. "MEGA": Thirty-three New Democracy, nineteen SYRIZA, five Change Movement, zero us. A total of two hundred ten times was presented in a week, Mr President, by the Members of the New Democracy. I'm not talking about press releases. Only ninety SYRIZA, nineteen you of KINAL, zero us, zero the CPI and zero the Mer25. So that's the anticipation of the democracy you've built, that's the anticipation of the PSE that doesn't work, without even basic checks, without doing a job. I'm going to make another direct point, Mr. Voutsi, concerning me. Over the past year and a half, Mr Voutsi, there have been a hundred and a half decisions in the PSE. These are decisions concerning satellite connections. Sixty are about me for a show. The whole ERR, I mean, works for me! And he doesn't look at the pluralism that he doesn't call SYRIZA, he doesn't call the KKE, he doesn't call the Mer25, he doesn't call the Change Movement, he doesn't call us, and we're most with zeros! That's where it had to work. And the worst, Mr. Voutsi, is that they are responsible for the polls. The PSE is also responsible for polling. When did the polls take place, Mr. Voutsi? Never! Since 2017, the PSE has been carrying out an account! This is the democracy that we have built, the democracy of the chairs, those screwed up in a chair, they don't move from it and they think that's how it works. They're wrong! I'll say it one more time. I don't care what the PSE does. I promised that "I will take them blood", because they take the money of the Greek people and do not work, do not work, do not work. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA or PASOK, or we or the JRC or Mera25 will not be represented on the channels every day and only New Democracy will parade every day. It's unfair and undemocratic. I won't say it's fascist or nazi. And I like that when I tell the friends of the New Democracy, they tell me I'm right. So if I'm right, why don't we change the PSE? Why don't we do something? Why don't we change the situation? So the New Democracy is either at ease with non-popularity or imposes non-popularity, because it still suits it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u131	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u132	What do you want to talk about, Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u133	The President made a reference to the Thrace Committee, Mr President, and I would like to make a clarification which is interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u134	Yeah, but it's not about you guys. He asked you as a specialist scientist...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u135	No, Mr President, he said about the Thrace Committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u136	Here, you have the floor for two minutes. But, you know, we're out of time, and the bill wasn't discussed. Here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u137	The President said about three letters sent to the committee for Thrace by our minority fellow citizens, referring to Turkish minorities and other such letters. I would therefore like to make it clear. In fact, it is about three letters. One is printed in Turkish and we agreed to be sent back to get us back in Greek. As far as the two of them signed by the Turkish minority, and so on, we have said, Mr Katrugalos, me and Mrs Bakoyannis, that we will consider whether we will receive them and what we will do with them. We haven't received them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u138	Well, this is a critical clarification. Before I give the floor to the Minister, I would like to make it clear that the frequent references to Mr Voutsi have been made because he is a former President of Parliament. It is not considered to be the responsibility of the independent authorities. Minister, will you come to the Step to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u139	No, Mr President, I shall speak from my position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u140	Will you make all your speech from your place?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, my position is specific, targeted and facilitated...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u142	Okay, if you want to speak from your position, you can talk from there. I'll put you the time you're entitled to. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the discussion process of the Ministry of Labour's draft law, a bill which, as I said in committee, has a positive sign...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u144	What's going on is forbidden. Without a mask you can only speak from the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u145	You're typically right, Mr. Comrade. Because they're watching us on television, put your mask on message grounds, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u146	All right, I'll come to Stepma, Mr. President. In order to avoid any misunderstanding, I asked just before Mr Markopoulos to move away from the particular position he was sitting on. So I come back, Mr. Loverdos, from the Stepping of the House and reset my position. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, a bill which, as I have seen from all sides of this House, enjoys their support, even if there is any criticism. However, most importantly, the vast majority of the social actors who participated in the consultation of the bill in the committee welcomed it, supported it and embraced it. So, starting on the basis of this observation, I would like to say that this bill is based on two pillars. One is the social dimension which it gives in a positive manner, with provisions that will be analysed by the State Secretary, Mrs Michalidou, and the other is that it includes many provisions which are insurance, labour and social content at the same time. I will dedicate my placement to some of the provisions, some of which I consider to be the most important of all, because all the others have been discussed in detail in the committee. They are provisions which have a positive social and development mark. However, what I am going to say is that they have a particular political and developmental dimension and I am going to refer to them in particular. First and foremost I begin with the emblematic provision of the bill, which is the one concerning the reduction of insurance contributions by three points from 1 January 2021. These are 3,9 units cumulatively with 0,90 established by the insurance reform of N.4670 since 1 July 2020. Before I enter the essence of the provision, I have to make the political reference to the placement of SYRIZA primarily, because SYRIZA was a government, today it is a political opposition party and its political speech has a greater, not only a special burden, but also a greater responsibility. SYRIZA denies this provision, saying that it firstly damages more than it benefits and, secondly, that it concerns too few. Excuse me, gentlemen of SYRIZA, but are the two hundred sixty-five thousand two hundred sixteen businesses? I'm sorry, gentlemen of SYRIZA, but how do you count? One million nine hundred and six thousand thirty-six employees, whose income will be positively affected, are few for you? Is that how you count? Is that your arithmetic? But, in fact, I would like to make things clear, because for us it is a very important provision, a provision that will give oxygen to the labour market, will first improve the income of workers, this amount will be given, and it will give a breath to businesses through the reduction of non-wage costs. However, the most important thing is that the two most important speeches of the bill, gentlemen of KINAL - and you must be careful, because with the political personality you show, at the end of the day nobody understands your position and this harms you - is that, by making structural interventions of this kind, you reduce the incentives for infraction and abuse of the labour market. So you strengthen fair competition, you support consistent businesses and healthy competition and, on the other hand, you reduce the essential incentives that undermine the labour market and aid and income in insurance funds. So all this positive action by SYRIZA is denying it today. In fact, it claims that this provision undermines and will break down the OAED. Is that a serious argument? I have answered your question to the committee, but for order reasons I shall repeat it. I was a minister at the time when you went out to the regiment square, Mrs. Fotio. I was a minister when, in 46.6 percentage points, the non-wage cost - one of the largest in Europe and the world, perhaps, was undermining the worker's interest, recruitment, etc. - We reduced it by six points. We did it 40.6. I repeat now - I also said as a Member of the Officerial Representation - that what you say has decreased the unemployment rate, which has actually decreased from 27.3% and has continued to fall for both 2013 and 2014 and for SYRIZA days, until March 2020. The decline in unemployment, of course, has stopped because of the pandemic. You deny that, because, I don't know, that's your position. You don't even have the mental, the political power to recognize it. So this declining unemployment is due to three major factors, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, it is not just the declining of unemployment, but it is another element. 42.3% of the undeclared work in February 2013 is currently under seven units. Undeclared work has almost been hit at its root for four reasons. The first reason is that we have introduced and created the 'ERGAN', the electronic shield for workers. You refused to offer "ERGANIS" when it was created. You then invoked it. I would remind you that you were saying "Brutsi montazier" at that time. Today, "ERGANI" is the most crucial and important instrument of 2020, as it supported the workers of the country and businesses. If there were no "ERGANI", I cannot imagine how we would make all this great institutional intervention in payments for the workers and how we would do the cross-checks. It would be impossible to do so in another way. Thank God we had the "ERGANI"! The second was the fine of EUR 10,500, the most stringent fine ever imposed for undeclared work in the history of our country's labour law. And that you refused and doubted. The third reason was that we reduced contributions from 46.6% to 40.6%. These three reasons have contributed to reducing undeclared work and deviating unemployment. When you said a moment ago - and I have heard you say so many times too, and you and Mr Tsipras - that unemployment has fallen, can you tell me why it has fallen? Because you became government? With your populist behaviour and policies which are questionable and have brought opposite results, unemployment has fallen? In order to reduce unemployment, private sector support must be given. Did you take initiatives to strengthen the private sector? In any case, these have been scientifically recorded. We are now moving on to another brave structural change, to a reduction of 3.9 points cumulatively from 1 January 2021 of insurance contributions! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It was our pre-election commitment, it was announced by Mr. Mitsotakis as Head of the opposition officer and we are doing so today! Our commitment is being made! And one asks, "Well, that's what it's worth? And how much is it worth?’ I said the numbers before. I spoke about two hundred and sixty-five thousand sixteen businesses - not arbitrary, they are the elements from the 'ERGANI', the 2019 overall review - and one million nine hundred eighty-sixteen thousand thirty-six sixty-six employees in the private sector. All of these are positively affected as they increase their income. But how much will it grow? Nobody said they'd be rich. Nobody said that. We have said, however, that anything that improves the income of workers is welcome. So here, we're getting better. Listen up. For a worker with EUR 650, the company will have an annual benefit of EUR 207 while the employee EUR 148. It's a little bit for Mrs. Fotio and SYRIZA. We're not saying we're celebrating, but it's a number, a clue, an amount that'll be in the worker's pocket. For a worker with EUR 800, the company will benefit from EUR 254 and EUR 183 the employee. For a worker with EUR 1,200, EUR 381 will be the benefit to the enterprise, EUR 274 for the worker. For a worker with EUR 1,800, EUR 572 will be the benefit to the enterprise, EUR 411 for the worker. In short, such policies, escaping from the pandemic, you can be sure that they will greatly enhance investment, because we are reducing the non-wage cost, without reducing the wages of workers, but improving them at the same time. The main thing, however, is that they will reduce unemployment. Incentives are being created to increase employment by enterprises, because we reduce the non-wage costs, which have been the coordinated and single voice of the labour market and of workers and businesses over time. Another distortion is being attempted here. Where do we reduce these contributions? Are we reducing them from the workers' premiums? No, in the sense that some people went to present it at the beginning falsely. Pension rights are not reduced. Insurance and pension contributions remain the same. So the result of the pension is the same for the workers. What we are reducing is extra-thirds contributions, a confiscated past that increased wage costs and actually went to the OAED. Are you calling today and saying, then, that OAED will collapse with the 3.9 points of reduction? And I ask: Since, gentlemen of SYRIZA, you say it will collapse when we reduced the six units in 2012-2014, why didn't it collapse? You said the same thing back then. And, when you became government in 2015, why didn't you increase contributions from 40.6% to 46.6% again? No answer! Hypocrisy! We hide behind our finger, let's pinch a worker who believes we're going to hurt him! The opposite happens. The OAED is also being strengthened through this policy, because, when the workforce is expanding and increasing employment, fewer unemployment benefits are needed, the OAED's income is also strengthened through the range of young workers created and all benefit. However, I repeat for once that OAED was, is and remains a central social arm and the state and the Ministry of Labour. It makes active and passive employment policies and gives unemployment benefits and long-term unemployed. In fact, his offer, at the moment, and with Spyros Profsaltis, his Governor, is very important, especially in this critical period, because we have also given the benefits of increasing unemployment for the unemployed all this time and for the long-term unemployed, with a very simple and easy process. With our second provision in the amendment, we regulate for eight hundred thousand three hundred and forty-three free professionals, self-employed and farmers the debit balance created by the 2019 liquidation of their income. Remind me what this story is. It's the painful story that SYRIZA doesn't talk about when he goes up here. It's all chewed up. He said nothing about the provision, whether to vote or not to vote on it. It is SYRIZA's famous insurance law 4387, which turned insurance into tax and this law created a variety of problems within the e-ECA, problems of bureaucracy, complexity, dysfunction. We couldn't make pensions. We couldn't make insurance contributions. This now cleans up the scenery. After the liquidation of 2019, there is a clear road in front of our country's insurance system for a million and a half-and-a-half million self-employed farmers, free professionals, since from 1st to 2020 everyone chooses the free category they want to pay, according to their possibilities and according to what will be created since 2022, with the clearing house, with the contribution that will appear printed every month and will see the prospects of their retirement for the first time. We are preparing cosmogenicity in e - EFKA, even surpassing private insurance companies as part of a presentation. Therefore, these debts of the eight hundred thousand three hundred forty-forty-three specific professionals and farmers who had to be paid in November and December 2020, mid-weighted by EUR 1,355,43 for each, are transferred for 2021 from 31 March, the first payment in five specific instalments. A third important provision is that for the first time the obligation of the Minister of Labour, both today and future, to present on a monthly basis the achievements we have created in the Ministry of Labour on transparency and the insurance and labour landscape of our country. By the 25th of each month, the Minister of Labour is obliged to present first, the report of "ERGANIS", i.e. the whole labour market printed throughout the territory, flows, balances, positive or negative, whatever it may be, as we do no matter what it is from 2013. That's not what SYRIZA interrupted. Secondly, the CRL report should be presented every three months. It is the report of the Centre for Insurance Contributions, for Greek citizens to learn the debts to the insurance funds, their mapping, their amount, whether they are expanded or minimized. I would remind you that the CAO was what SYRIZA promised every time we had these conversations that the next day would stop it. Since its creation, in 2013, the CRL has been providing 1 billion income to the insurance funds to date. I would remind you that until first, before the creation of the CRL, he paid contributions - contributions, I do not say taxes - whoever he wanted, when he wanted and as he wanted. That's what's changed. The CRL remained, SYRIZA did not abolish it - well he did and did not abolish it - and today it is a pillar of transparency for the insurance system. The third report is the 'ELIOS' report. SYRIZA interrupted her extradition. I recall that the "ELIOS" mapped the country's insurance system for the first time on June 1, 2013. Before June 1, 2013, we did not know how many pensioners the country has, how many pensions we have, what we pay on a monthly basis and it was filled with the so-called pensions - "monkey". We have solved these since 1 June 2013. After my position as Minister, the ELIOS system was re-issued. But there was a gray zone in the transparency of the insurance system. From this step many times I had called Mrs Ahtsoglou through questions from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, like KINAL, to present to us what the outstanding pensions are, how many pensions are paid. This was an outstanding one in transparency and reliability of the insurance system. Parliamentary checks, disputes, 'we do not believe the evidence'. There was a debate which had neither substance nor harmed the parliamentary process nor democracy itself. It's been closed forever, ladies and gentlemen. I have the honour to present to the House another institutional achievement of transparency: the 'ATLAS' report. The exhibition "ATLAS" is the one that was first presented a few days ago and every month will present the entire insurance: how many applications have been made, what are the outstanding pensions and how many pensions have been awarded. No matter what result - I am not actually coming in now, the results have been captured, I am entering the institutional achievement of transparency - now along with the 'HIO' and 'ATLANTA' is completing the range of transparency of our insurance system. And I would remind you that the report "ITLAS" was named after the digital pension "ITLAS" which Mrs Fotio wrongly does not monitor or intentionally alter the truth. The digital pension already started. You could have made it on January 1, 2017. Your obsession with the ideoleptic has stopped it. I had handed over to the delivery - receipt to the then Minister, Mr. Skourletis, the envelope with "ATLANTA", which we created in 2014, along with the data. You ignored it. You've given up. You abandoned it. Today we are reintroducing it and now pensions have started to be digital in terms of the two major categories of farmers and widowhood. No one disputes that. You all have acquaintances who got a digital pension in a second. And I repeat the timetable not for Parliament's information, but for many people who listen to us and ask when to make a statement: in March 2021 doctors and disability pensions digitally. In September 2021, public sector, private sector and engineers. In December 2021, the digital pension framework is completed and we are going for journalists, lawyers and self-employed. And that's the end of the pathogen of decades! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] No one will remember, Mr. Voutsi, with respect to your face, after years who, and why, did it. But everyone will know that they will never be afflicted again and will never experience this unacceptable suffering, to wait two and three and four years for their retirement. And because I accept criticism - well-meaning, I believe - the delays in outstanding pensions have increased, I say it is a painful story. Don't open it. "ATLAS" will, however, never again give the right to a subsequent Minister of Labour to hide pensions in bags. That's the basic thing. The fourth major intervention is the minimum guaranteed income. The minimum guaranteed income, support for vulnerable social groups, the Prime Minister announced it from a Step-by-step. The minimum guaranteed income was created in 2013. Greece was the last country in Europe to create it. It is the conquest of the Greek political system the minimum guaranteed income. I would remind you that before the minimum guaranteed income as Minister, counting the results of our country's social policy, I find it regrettable that the amounts that we gave as a percentage of GDP were the same as those of the most developed countries. Unfortunately, the effectiveness of dealing with poverty was below the base. We were giving the money and going to overlapping because it was fragmented by the social policy system. We introduced the minimum guaranteed income in 2013, SYRIZA refused it, denounced it as a trap of poverty. Fortunately he maintained it and completed it to this day. This intervention is one of the most important. We have one of Europe's most modern mechanisms of minimum guaranteed income, because it touches on "ERGANI" and we have in real time the man who loses his job. This whole framework is the minimum guaranteed income. Last year, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis included it in the Constitution and SYRIZA did not vote for it. The minimum guaranteed income for December will be a special, exceptional reinforcement of all the weak social groups. They're not a few. They're not negligible. More than four hundred thousand households. And this world - in particular, four hundred and eighty-two thousand thirty-five vulnerable persons, two hundred and sixty-six thousand households - will benefit from the minimum guaranteed income. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I close with one last provision, which is also important and concerns doctors, lawyers and engineers. This provision concerns the formulation of the new analytical periodic declaration. The new analytical periodical statement now applies the procedure of Law 4670 to the three categories I mentioned before - doctors, lawyers, engineers - and thus the application from the first month before, in the public and private sectors to improve their income, I would say, satisfactorily. This, after the law was passed, will also be extended to engineers and doctors with corresponding benefits for all. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the main provisions that I described just now. These are important provisions. I ask you to support them. They are provisions that have a positive mark. I would also ask you to vote in favour. They're not devices that separate, they're devices that unite. I understand your ideological differences, but, especially in a critical period like this is the one we are going through at the moment, it is good to compose and join forces and retain party purposes. I hope and believe you will support the provisions which are in the interests of thousands of workers and for the Greek economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move on to the debate, I should like to make a statement to this House: The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics shall submit its report to the Prosecutor's request for authorisation to prosecute a criminal prosecution against a Member. Mr Panos Skourletis has the floor now on behalf of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. I feel the need to start with a reference to today's global day against violence against women. I would like to remind you that in the House on the SYRIZA government a decisive step had been taken: the Istanbul Convention had been ratified. Of course, this does not prevent us from seeing and hearing complaints about domestic violence every day. It was, however, a decisive step, which should be followed by others. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think it is at all accident to place the previous Minister and to defend the proposal to reduce contributions to the OAED. We are presented as a move, in the difficult circumstances, to strengthen the incomes of workers and companies paying for the corresponding contribution. There is nothing more hypocritical, because as a whole it is 1.5 billion for the OAED, which will be missing for businesses and workers. If, indeed, you care and you want to strengthen the workers, the businesses affected, concrete proposals have been. You didn't. Two specific amendments were tabled with regard to ensuring, on behalf of the State, the Christmas gift to the affected enterprises. You don't. A concrete amendment was tabled to strengthen all those outside your policy area, the unpaid, those who are not registered anywhere, get no allowance, EUR 400 for the first minor member, EUR 200 for the second and EUR 100 for every other child. You don't. So why do you come and do that? Can I tell you why? Because I fear very much that in your mind you want to impose lockdown on the OAED, lockdown on a social policy tool, on a social policy arm. Slowly, but firmly, this plan is being served, because the 1.5 billion missing will obviously have an impact and impact on training programmes. Here, of course, you have produced a great record on the issues of training programmes. I hear that you have also been proposed for the book Gina, as the most useless and smartest predator, with the "scollick". We're not talking about this kind of training. We are talking about what the OAED will not be able to do. You told us the argument 'but you were saying this before, which we had reduced contributions'. You forget, however, that at the time there were reserves from the Labour Housing Organization. And here there is a huge issue nowadays, because when we talk, for example, about strengthening new couples, you cannot have a corresponding policy to support these new couples as a society. But that's fine. There is a need, therefore, to say, not to deprive the OAED of resources, but to be able to redesign it in the new circumstances and to reconstitute the respective housing policy. Of course, you are replacing all of these with other policies. You did not use the NSRP resources to support free professionals and you are responsible for the use of resources from the SURE programme. Compared to other countries of the same range, such as Portugal and Belgium, numbers speak for themselves. For the long-term unemployed, you are coming with bi-corruption reasons and references, and you are planning aid to be given only to 1/6 of them. For three hundred thousand pensioners there is still the extradition of their pensions and you come here and tell us terrible things. When I received these files from you, I received something else. I have received some contracts which have expired and have been told that in a moment, next month, the ERGAN programme will not be able to operate. You left it all on the woods hanging. You prepared to implement the 'large parentheses' or'small parentheses' project. You didn't come out. For others, however, you have areas of policy. For example, I saw that 120,000 000 000 were announced for 'Aegean'. Other countries have done so, you'll tell me. That's right. It's an air carrier, it's a tourist country, we have to support it. Will there be any conditions for giving this money? Have you been committed by the company to maintain jobs? Have you thought that this money should be translated into equivalent participation in the company's equity composition, as is done in other countries? To see what is happening in other European countries. Another example of a different measure, a different concept. Piraeus Bank announced that it would not pay the so-called CoCos, what it was due to the Greek State and, instead, the Greek State would receive shares. But at what price? Five times over today's stock market. And in continuing with this absurd policy - which is not so absurd, has a specific target, serves specific interests - the public will not have a corresponding participation in the administration of Piraeus Bank. Instead, you say that your work plan is included in the Pissaridis project, the Pissaridis project, known from the memorandum years ago, before the pandemic, during the pandemic after the pandemic. Pissaridis! So tell me what this is? Isn't it neoliberal dogmatism? And what does this Pissaridis project include, which is not new at all? They are old cutting down failed policies, which, where they have been implemented around the world, have widened inequalities. So what does it involve? It includes a reduction in insurance contributions. It disturbs you that subsidiary insurance is part of a social system and you want to give it to individuals. It also includes a new approach - look at how politely you say - overtime. "Language" in the eighth hour. The workers won't be rewarded. Now imagine in some jobs that are being forced at the moment - supermarket, courier, doctors - not to have an eight-hour working, this work, overworking, not to be paid as overtime, but to remove it when there is no such pressure. Big twists! So this is the new proposal. A change in the time when the unemployment benefit will be paid. It sounds like you've been saying for six months, because, of course, it's an individual responsibility for the unemployed! It has nothing to do with it or with policies. Do you know what they're showing, beyond your neoliberal analgesia? They show that you have not understood what the problems of the time are. This shows that you insist on recipes which have led to social polarization, with the experience of the pandemic that suddenly shows the boundaries of these strategies that led to the previous decades and impose new tools, new strategies, with dynamic and substantial public intervention, if we want to get out of this crisis, if we want to get out of this crisis with a steady growth if we do not want to leave behind and see scenes of a social cemetery. So instead of this thing, you come with outdated perceptions. Mrs Lagard herself at a meeting within the European Bank, she said that Europe would be more affected by all other economies, precisely because the pandemic hits services first. The nature of European economies is primarily about services. The processing, anyway, has emigrated elsewhere to other countries. So, basically, we will be faced with a situation that will primarily affect young people. Conditions are being created to have new lost generations, people working on worse terms and less wages. Instead of that now leading to great questions about what we need to do to deal with this policy, you do not come to offer anything to this debate, official European reflection, and you remain perfectly predictable, with the same things. How can anyone describe this? It's a narrow-class look at things. And we're going on. You referred yesterday to the role of control mechanisms in another category of workers. But the RCF is finally undermining it, because it's bothering you. And you also have differences between employers and businesses, right now outside the procedures provided for so far by the Ministry of Labour, you want the OMD to resolve them. What else do you think of doing at the expense of the world of work? More specifically, I asked you a question that you did not answer in the context of parliamentary scrutiny and the timely question: Do you consider it or not appropriate that young people, primarily those working on courier transport, be classified as a single specialty and be subject to heavy and unhealthy health? You understand that. I don't have to say anything more about it. Ladies and gentlemen, you knew about the second pandemic wave. You squeeze it in the words. You're making the wrong moves. You let the time pass. You've lost control, you've lost your words. And the Minister of State comes out and makes jokes - to say diligently - statements and tells us that if we have more ICU beds, then they are in danger of more death, because 50% or more of them are not coming out. If ever possible! Apparently, it was a false reasoning, unlucky, but it looks panic, it shows a lack of temper. Finally, there must be a plan that adopts a different logic from the one you have had up to now. I understand that whatever the public is urging it, you despising it. You are intolerable by the public health system, the social nature of the OAED, the insurance system. But seasons want other kinds of solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, Northern Greece has solved. You'll be told by your own MPs, gentlemen of the government. People have lost their trust. It cannot be hollow, without measures, even now at five, to be able to deal with the criticality of the moments. The responsibilities are great and I fear very much that you cannot escape these responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u149	And we thank Mr. Skourlet. The development of the speeches is as follows: We will now give the floor from a distance to inaugurate, Mr Boukorore, and the first cycle of speakers with MPs...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u150	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u151	You'll answer. We will give the floor to Mr Spyridon Spiritual, MEP of the New Democracy. Then the Prime Minister will take the floor and then the debate will take place. Mr. Spiritual has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all health and your familiars in these difficult days. We are very pleased to debate today a bill proving in practice the social person of the Government of New Democracy. After a decade of deep economic crisis, our country and all of the planet were hit by an unprecedented pandemic that led society and citizens into a bad place. In response to these difficult circumstances, therefore, our Government in this draft law introduces regulations aimed at providing support at two levels: firstly, strengthening the welfare state and, secondly, strengthening labour. For example, the welfare state introduces an institutional framework for centres for creative employment for children and persons with disabilities. Here we see that the government is trying for the first time to lay down as preconditions for covering operational needs in an area where our children are concerned. I take the opportunity here to refer to the National Action Plan on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities presented yesterday at a joint meeting of Parliament committees by the Minister of State, Georgios Georgios Gerapititidis, and which deals with practically and solely any distortive and problematic policy of the past, on the basis of autonomy, inclusion and accessibility. Today's bill also strengthens the institutions of adoption and assumption so as not to exclude candidate parents with disabilities and more and more children from having the opportunity to find a family. In this area, the Ministry of Labour has made huge progress within a short period of time and under adverse conditions, with two or two possible connections, matchings, with children in institutions. A family for every child remains our goal of politics. The protagonist part of the bill includes the program "House and Work for the Homeless", which until now operated pilots. The programme includes a stable institutional status, financed by the Ministry of Labour's budget. Another intervention is to triple the dose of at least the December guaranteed income for four hundred two thousand fellow citizens and extend it to homeless and women victims of violence living in closed structures and hostels. On the occasion of today's World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, I would say that unfortunately one of the negative consequences of pandemic is an increase in the incidents of violence and abuse of women. I therefore call on all women not to be afraid to speak, seek help, report abuses, either in the '19500' line or in the advisory centres. With regard to labour support, basic intervention is the reduction of non-wage labour costs, which is a key blocking factor for new recruitment, by 3.9 points cumulatively from the new year. In addition, facilities are provided for payment of debts incurred during the pandemic and a special grant is introduced for professionals and scientists in the affected sectors. All this as a goal is to strengthen the small and medium-sized society, which is the engine of our society and which has been supporting the entire insurance system in our country for so many years. All in all, we see that this is a bill which provides for regulations with a positive social sign. One would expect all these measures to be responded to in all political areas and we would just have a creative dialogue to see how these reforms can finally be further improved. Instead, we heard only reactions, a form of opposing only for the opponent. Unfortunately, we are seeing the same attitude from opposition to the greatest challenge facing our country at the moment, namely the management of the koruna pandemic. Our country, like the whole planet, is walking in uncharted waters. The government is really making superhuman efforts to manage the pandemic in a way that protects public health, but also does not destroy the economy and has actually received credit for its work at international and European level. At these difficult times citizens demand from all of us seriousness, maturity and awareness of the conditions and problems and at least consensus on the main issues. In the face of this unprecedented period, then, we must all be consistent with the messages and instructions we give the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the government listens to society with caution and sensitivity and demonstrates it by legislative initiatives such as today, with a positive social and developmental figure. I invite you to support these positive arrangements for the benefit of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u153	And we thank Mr. Spiritual. The Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u154	I am pleased, Mr President, that Parliament is also adapting to the requirements of teleworking, while respecting the measures which have been suggested by the experts, and I hope that we will soon be more in this Chamber, so that the discussions that are being held are a little more vibrant. Ladies and gentlemen, I have chosen to speak today in this House at a time of difficult battle with the pandemic for an important, I believe, bill, which adds another package of measures to deal with its consequences. At the same time, however, this bill also serves a central objective of the government: the continued relief of households and businesses, and the strengthening of employment, through the reduction of insurance contributions. But I am here, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to show that the legislative work continues and continues despite the disruption of the coronary and that the specific restrictions do not restrict our own reforms. Proof that the House soon follows an extremely critical draft law on vocational education, a draft emblematic law that upgrades technical studies and responds to truly demands of the labour market. In the next few weeks, the new spatial planning bill, after exhausting public consultation, follows a bill that solves bold years of problems, such as derogations from the non-project construction and the rapid development of town planning. It is, I believe, a bill combining balanced development, always with respect for the environment. Finally, it will be followed - it will have been submitted to the committees of Parliament and will be voted logically after the Christmas celebrations - the bill on public procurement, the reform of Law 4412, a bill that will bring more transparency, but above all speed in the execution of not only major, medium-sized, small, but also speedy tenders by the Greek public. These are specific aspects of the government plan that I presented in my programme statements. They are commitments I had announced at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. In short, despite the many difficulties, despite the extremely problematic situation, this government remains consistent with its agreement with the citizens. He's changing the country, he's talking the language of truth and doing what he says. Today, a moment ago, the Deputy Minister of Economy made the first presentation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, whose draft has already been sent to the European Union. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This material has already been put into public consultation, and, as I have committed myself, ladies and gentlemen, shortly before the final draft of the country to the European Commission, it will also come to the National Delegation to discuss it at the level of parties leaders. So returning to today's bill, I would say that it aims to endurance and cohesion of society. On the one hand, it offers important protection shields for workers and the unemployed affected by the outbreak of COVID, while on the other hand it is continuing on the road to our central strategic direction that citizens are gradually exempted from burdens and, at the same time, to stimulate employment, that jobs are maintained today, so that they can be increased tomorrow. A key element in the bill, which will soon be the law of the state, is the new reduction in social security contributions of workers and employers. It is quite clear here that our intention is quite clear. We know from all international research - not only the Pissaridis report, it is something that has been pointed out in all the analyses on the Greek economy over the last decade - that the non-wage costs in our country remain disproportionately large. It encourages the black economy, discourages investment, eventually urges many our young citizens to leave abroad and, of course, encourages tax evasion. Therefore, every reduction in non-wage costs is supporting business funds, but obviously it also strengthens the employees' wallet. With their new withdrawal by three percentage points, insurance contributions in our country are reduced by 3.9%, in fact reaching the lowest level ever in our country. This is something that benefits more than two hundred and fifty thousand businesses. It accounts for almost two million workers. To be more practical, this means an annual profit of EUR 228 for the tenant of EUR 1 000, EUR 342 for someone who is paid EUR 1,500, EUR 456 for someone who has a wage of EUR 2 000. A similar escalation will obviously also benefit businesses. This intervention is extremely important, especially for employed work, which was particularly hit at the pandemic time. A hired job which must be made more attractive, less prejudicial for employees and businesses, so that we can create well-paid jobs in our home country and I imagine that all parties are talking to the large and small and medium-sized employers' organisations, the representatives of productive Greece. Many times business representatives - not only large, I stress, but also medium-sized and small - have told us that lowering non-wage costs is equally important, if not more important than lowering taxation on business profits. Since this government is consistent with its commitments, it has reduced both the profits of businesses and the non-wage costs of intervention under this draft law. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] A second chapter of the bill relates to a number of favourable forecasts for the world of work and production at pandemic times. The Minister for Labour has mentioned them in detail. Let me just turn to some, which I consider to be particularly important. Self-employed, self-employed professionals and employers can henceforth regulate funds in twenty-four instalments up to April 2021. The same applies to those who have not been able to benefit from the extensions of the last four months. Those who are in fact self-employed or farmers have encountered difficulties in clearing their contributions for 2019, will now be able to repay them in five instalments instead of two. More than eight hundred thousand insured are thus facilitated. The complex procedure for calculating and collecting insurance contributions, which it had established a law of the previous government, is being permanently maintained for one and a half million employees. Second intervention, which is extremely important: in December the minimum guaranteed income is doubled for the almost five hundred thousand beneficiaries of almost sixty thousand households. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] They are for the first time - and I would like to congratulate the Ministry of Labour, the Minister and the State Secretary for this care - our homeless fellow citizens and women victims of violence who are now living in hospitals. We had not planned this, Minister, but it is perhaps symbolic that it is being voted today - World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women - this prediction, which comes to fill in a previous void and enables these women, victims of violence, to enjoy the minimum guaranteed income. The minimum guaranteed income is now constitutionally institutionalised. Whether you call it "social solidarity allowance" or "minimum guaranteed income", is a mechanism for supporting our weakest fellow citizens, who have been tested and endured in time. Adopted by the Government of New Democracy. It was then strengthened, despite the change of name, by the SYRIZA government. Resident constitutionally on the initiative of the New Democracy. And now, at this difficult time for nearly half a million fellow citizens who may face the greatest difficulties, the government comes and doubles the allowance they receive in December, so that we can support them in this difficult period that they are going through. The bill also provides for professionals in the scientific sectors: lawyers, doctors, economists. A single financial aid will be granted to them. As you know, there is also an extension for November of the possibility of including workers in a suspension of work, while granting the compensation in question. As in spring, this arrangement now comes to support businesses that have been hit by the pandemic. As far as workers' licences are concerned, this right is transferred to 2021. Finally, the framework for the occasional work of the unemployed and the long-term unemployed who are entitled to a regular grant is also revised. They will retain this right, even if they have been employed in agricultural work for less than seventy days Ladies and gentlemen, the social objective of the bill complements a number of individual provisions focusing on specific categories of our vulnerable fellow citizens. They are problems that do not often concern newspaper headlines, nor are they protagonists in the news releases, or often in the comments of social media. But I call on them precisely to stop being invisible once and to stress that this government is concerned about all aspects of social reality. For example, pensions for children who have lost both parents are doubled. They will now receive half of the pension that their parents are entitled to, instead of 25%. At the same time, civil and military officials suffering from cystic fibrosis or permanent rectifying disruption will now be entitled to retirement at 15 years of service. The "House and Work" programme for autonomous living is widened. At the expense of the State, six hundred homes of the homeless will be transferred to rented dwellings, with secure work for their members. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Finally, the deadlines for applications for the birth allowance are extended to heal some previous delays, while the programme is being supported for 2021 with another 37 million. Let me not mention all the articles in the bill, however. After all, as I have said, these have already been analysed in detail in the committee and I imagine that they and my colleagues will be mentioned in the plenary debate. I would like to stress that my intervention today has a central objective. To ensure that, in the face of the crisis of the coronary, the state is next to every Greek and every Greek, to the workers, to the businesses, to the young, to the unemployed... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ...and that, as the government is fighting for everyone's health, the same methodically works for the welfare of all. Just yesterday I announced the launching of a procedure for the conversion of fixed-term contracts into an indefinite time for doctors serving in intensive treatment units. It is an initiative parallel to the recruitment of four thousand nurses, both needed by the National Health System, not only to deal with the pandemic, but also to be able to stand dynamically on his feet and the next day. At the same time, these are happening with the more than doubleping of intensive care units and the absolute adequacy, of course, of our hospitals in equipment and medicines, but also in combination with a huge daily work carried out on the front of controls, detection, traceability of virus cases. So, with the same faith, I am also in favour today of a bill supplementing the country's economic armour. I would remind you that since spring the state has immediately compensated anyone who is affected. Tax and insurance obligations have been suspended, as well as loan instalments. Rents are subsidized by 40%. The 'CONTACT' programme covers remuneration for those who are forced to work with reduced working hours to protect jobs. And, of course, hundreds of thousands of new jobs are being subsidised, even in the crisis. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Today employers and workers are relieved, with another serious reduction in contributions. However, employment and the health of the economy are directly linked to the sustainability of enterprises. That is why EUR 9 billion has so far been directed towards them, which will reach EUR 11 billion by the end of the year. I would remind you that our programme against pandemic totals EUR 24 billion in 2020 and that they have been budgeted to add, if necessary, another EUR 7.5 billion for 2021. To understand the figures a little, these sums are about what the country will receive loans and grants from the European Recovery Fund. And, to state the social character of this so-called'responsibility', which is so necessary in order to keep the life of businesses whose activities have either been suspended or have the effect of the crisis, I can only say a few words about the mechanism of the repayable advance. It is a measure which has proved to be extremely successful. It concerns medium-sized, small, micro-enterprises, which by their very nature do not have access to, or have easy access to, banking. That is why this programme is recurring and will be even stronger, since the needs of the times are being imposed. The data are: As soon as the day before yesterday, a few days after the platform was opened, seventy-nine thousand enterprises shared 420 million from the fourth cycle of the programme, a lending cycle in which 50% of the loans are not repaid. That is perhaps why the original applications exceeded two hundred and twenty-five thousand. And I have just been informed by the Minister of Finance that even a hundred more forty-three thousand businesses will now, within the day, see in their accounts EUR 700 million. I repeat: a few days after the platform was opened. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In other words, within less than a week the government has given and supported with real liquidity more than two hundred and twenty thousand businesses - because the needs of businesses, you know, cannot wait - with EUR 1.1 billion. And we are talking about businesses which, as I have said, are not large. They are cafeterias, taxis, restaurants, rooms for rent, gyms, hairdressers, retail shops, lawyer offices, accountants, care shops at every corner of the country. I will say this again: we want to enable businesses to stay alive. We want to enable an undertaking that has put its workers on a standstill to have the necessary liquidity, together with the loan reduction arrangements, so that it can cover its basic operating costs, avoid the range of bankruptcy, so that it can re-evaluate with growth, when with good reason we can remove the reality of restrictive measures. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, against all of this - I hope that the political leaders, whom I see in the Chamber today, will disprove - will be unable to make a documented positive proposal. I see an outstanding one between the irresponsible complaint on the one hand and the inexpensive auction on the other. 'No' to any governmental action. I would really like to hear from Mr Tsipras, who I imagine will take the floor, whether he supports the rules that I have mentioned. If it agrees with the reduction, for example, of employers' contributions, if it agrees with the increase in the minimum guaranteed income. It will be very interesting to hear the views of Officer Responsibility on these issues. But, so far, what we are hearing in the official public speech is 'no' to any governmental action. But we also hear a multiplication: I always give twice as much as the government gives. Recruitment is a typical example of health. You started with four thousand. When you found out we've done almost seven thousand, you went 15. It's very easy, as you know, every time you take what the government gives and present on two. That formula doesn't work. Unfortunately, he doesn't even work for your polling. However, it certainly does not help to build credibility, at a time when Greek society is seeking - more than ever - unity, clear and documented political speech. That's why our gaze isn't directed at our political opponents. It's about society, it's about our common enemy. The common enemy is called COVID -19. What we must defend as the acquis is public health and economic prosperity, and in this context the regulations of this bill are votes that, alongside many other actions by the government, form an integrated social policy. They are measures which have an ideological mark. They are, however, a mirror of how we understand the practice of government work. Against the coronary we qualified for public health, recognising the crucial role of the state, in practical terms and not in the words of the National Health System. So - and with regard to its economic consequences - we prefer employment, by acknowledging the crucial role of businesses. And just as on the first front, on the front of dealing with the pandemic, public and private sectors, they are invited to cooperate in the direction and guidance of the State for the common good, so in the second area, the reversal of the economy, the worlds of production and work have to meet for mutual prosperity. And that's our policy. I don't give her an ideology. I'll say it's a polar social fair. It is a policy that turns the gaze first and foremost to those who are most tested today in Greek society. It is a policy based on a national look, looking at the whole, the entire good of Greek society, without discrimination, inclusive. I've said it many times. I will say this again today: we will get out of this crisis standing, but, above all, we must get out of this crisis together as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. He has asked for the floor immediately after Mr Alexis Tsipras, President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and Chief of Staff of the Opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin with a reference to today. As you know, more than two and a half thousand women lose their lives every year from domestic violence and these incidents made a vertical increase, unfortunately, throughout the world during the quarantine season. We had, there's been a 230% increase in the incidence of domestic violence within the pandemic. So it is a day when we all have to unite our voice, indicating the need for no woman to be left alone. A week ago we had an extremely unpleasant incident in our country, a homicide, a feminine homicide in the Mani region. I think, therefore, that the crucial thing to be said today by all is that the voice of women who are now in the state of domestic violence must become a force for them to speak out and seek help. However, I would like to mention - because Mr Mitsotakis mentioned earlier - the fact that the networks of support for abused women throughout the country, as well as the telephone number, the S.O.S. line, were both of them - and the networks set up by the S.O.S. line. - a work of SYRIZA's government. I'm glad Mr. Mitsotakis recognizes their value. I should also like to remind you of the signing of the Istanbul Convention, which has also been done over these days. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the topical issues of today's sitting. I will deal with it - there is no doubt - and what Mr Mitsotakis said about the bill that brings to a vote. However, I cannot deny the challenge of referring to the general situation that the country is experiencing, starting with my speech, because the situation we are experiencing is indeed dramatic. It's dramatic, we have every day a hundred deaths in public hospitals. This is a dramatic situation. I'd say this because I've chosen all these days not to be in my office. With protection measures, I visit public hospitals all over the country, where I see the superhuman effort that doctors and nurses make. However, the situation has come out of control, especially in the hospital units of Northern Greece, throughout Macedonia and in Thessaly. The situation is out of control and the feeling you give us, Mr Mitsotakis, both on the issues you mentioned, concerning the economy - I said that I will also deal with them - but, as I would say above all, because at this point, everyone's minds must be in human life - I repeat - the feeling - that you give as government is that you are in vertigo, is that you are in total loss of contact with reality, in contact with the environment. And because you've often said that from this step here, I want to make it clear. We do not ask you to become a Messiah or a Moses - others referred to this, not us - or Saint George to kill the coronary, such as Saint George the dragon. We're not asking you to do anything superhuman. It is a global difficulty that we are experiencing. Nobody asked you to kill the virus. The least we ask is not to kill common sense. That's what we're asking. It is not to think - and you and your ministers, who come out most popular these days on television windows - that you are addressing cretins. Have an elementary consciousness of the reality that the country is experiencing today. That's what we're asking! Not to go out on TV windows, while we lose more than a hundred fellow citizens every day - many of them could have been saved - and say they celebrate! Not to tell us that they are sad, that they are sad, that they are in debt, but that they take on even part of the responsibility for this reality that they have found us in political responsibility! But, say they celebrate, why are there other countries where more die? And even if we are told, perhaps, that they are directed at low-intelligence citizens, your closest minister yesterday, Mr. Gerapeitris, going out and saying that if we had more ICUs, we would have more dead? What are these things? An elementary humility is needed at this time and empathy and not complete loss of emotional intelligence, because this is what you display. I'm not saying that. They're told in their social media reports newspaper directors who don't support SYRIZA. What kind of behavior is that? Would you give an explanation? Do you, Mr Mitsotakis, as Prime Minister, cover these statements by your ministers, do you share them? But the worst thing you've ever done is this. We spoke here last time about political responsibilities, about weaknesses, about mistakes, the different ideological positions that we have, in relation to the operation of the public space as a whole, and therefore of the public health system, all of this is well known. I do not want to talk about these issues for a long time. But at least what I would ask you to do is to deal with the substance even a little, not communication and not mock us! How much more are you gonna mock us? You announced yesterday to cover Mr Gerapetiti's gamble at a morning TV station, suddenly - and the agenda has changed for a while in public communication - that you are doing a great deal of charity, that you are doing a great deal - I do not underestimate - intervention, a top intervention, as far as the auxiliary doctors are concerned. But who are you kidding? You already announced that! You haven't already announced that? Haven't you come out and have you brought an amendment to this House a month ago for three hundred auxiliary intensifiers who will be permanently insulated? Two hundred were at the outset and two hundred seats had been declared since the summer, and you rushed to cover a hundred more perpetrators and brought it here at the last minute, and we accuse you of doing so too little and late and even accused you of being proof of your inability to come in time and strengthen the National Health System! And what you had already done, you went out yesterday and with drum impacts and repeated it in other words, as well as in the House today, in other words now. You're saying you're going to cover the positions of subsidiary doctors in intensive care units. You say the same thing and I'll explain why you say the same thing. Because the three hundred places you've covered occupy nearly 90% of the people in the intensive care units. So this last night's horror of who they are, who's about, how many in the number? Ten, fifteen more? But it's all about communication! Nothing about the substance! All about communication. And I want to ask you, Mr. Mitsotakis. All right, then, with the intensive assistants. What about the other auxiliary doctors? With those who come in contact with CIVID patients every day? And I'm going to tell you something, because you might not have that experience. You have to visit a public hospital from March, when the incidents weren’t much. This time, the great risk of infection for doctors and nurses in contact with incidents is not within intensive care units. Because that's where people enter like astronauts, and well they do, observe all protection measures. The great risk of infection is in the TLP, in the emergency department, where the incident comes, and no one knows whether it is an vector or not, whether it is a disease or not. And they include people, they're hospitalizing him, they're testing him, they're in contact with him. The great risk of infection for medical and nursing staff is in clinical CIVID, where at the moment we are talking about sixty, seventy, eighty people infected with the virus are four doctors, usually half of whom are subsidiary. Aren't they entitled to permanentity? So for the sake of communication, you only do this kind of thing, because you think everything is communication, but you make it worse! Because you're creating two speeds. You create inequality more than solving problems. You did the same with regard to what you announced, private doctors coming into the National Health System. And today it is a front page in Kathimerini that out of the two hundred so many - I do not remember the number - they have joined the system. But what you did, that is to include private individuals with a net salary of EUR 2,000 tax free, when at the moment the subsidiary, who can be from morning to night next to COVID patients, takes EUR 1,300, creates two-speed doctors and two-speed workers. So, then, the interventions you're only doing for viewing are only for communication, just to write the websites "what good you are", the headlines of networking media that have been incapable of being sponsored by advertising pie from Mr. Pizza's list to resurrect you, instead of solving problems, create even more problems, worsen the problem! I'll ask you this. Because you have again appealed in a disgraceful style to the opposition, which all parties have tabled proposals, we have not shown the irresponsibility you have shown. With a hundred dead a day, we are, Mr. Mitsotakis. And you, for thirty dead all year round, had come to this room and swing our fingers. And you're telling us we don't have any proposals. So I ask you, since you are so generous and do everything well: with heavy and unhealthy what will happen? Will the NSA nurses join the heavy and unhealthy? Is the request fair or isn't it? The nurses in private hospitals are in heavy and unhealthy. With regard to permanent recruitment, will there be permanent recruitments of doctors and nurses or as emperor at times, thanks to two hundred, three hundred, as you choose, to write some headlines? Will there be substantial increases in the payroll? Will there be increases in the salaries of doctors and nurses? You know, there are nursing contractors, not permanent, who spend all night in emergencies - all night long, it's their shift - and they care for people who are infected and are also in the agony of death - because that's the reality - for 10 euros. They're taking 10 euros for the night shift. You're gonna tell me, is that all there is now? No, they don't now, I'll be honest. There are years and I will reply to that. But now is an opportunity to address these great weaknesses of the National Health System. Why is this a big opportunity? Because now there is no - fortunately! - the troika over your head doesn't tell you anything. Because and after the troika left from August 2018 to February of this year, the pandemic began, and you were obliged for 3.5% of the surplus. Today there is not that, there is no such obligation. On the contrary, the European Union today says'send what is needed to support health systems'. There are 37 billion euros in the Treasury. We've taken care of for a critical moment. There is the Recovery Fund, there will be money, billions, in the coming years. There is the possibility of cheap lending from the European Central Bank, thanks to Greece joining, since we have found a solution to the debt regulation in the special programme, the QE. There is also a large package of 12 billion euros as a possibility from the ESM at 0,1 interest rate, but you don't have to take it. You have the ability to spend. And, while you have the opportunity to spend, you come here this year and what you are doing is playing with numbers and playing communal games, because what you are doing is actually tabling a budget, which is EUR 600 million lower than health expenditure this year. In 2021 health expenditure is less than EUR 600 million. Here, here it is, and I'm tabling it in the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] It is from the budget that has been tabled, the one we are going to discuss and we are already discussing in committee. In a year where if one thing had to be seen, it was to increase health expenditure, now, that there is the possibility of solving years of problems. They say the journalistic "pads" and they tire them and many here in this Chamber: "What have you done?" We, in circumstances of a harsh budgetary crisis - when we had to allow funds to re-establish the country upright and create credibility opportunities in Europe, get out of the memoranda, regulate the debt - did nineteen and a half thousands of permanent and extraordinary recruitments to the health system. We increased the beds in intensive care units by a hundred and twenty without the pandemic. You from 7 July 2019 until the pandemic begins, for about seven, eight months, not a single bed you have built in intensive care units, not one! And now you are playing with numbers, because you are constantly adding the private-sector beds, but that is not the point. The question - and I have told you many times too often - is that no matter how many beds they exist, if they are not staffed, they cannot work because the bed of the intensive care unit wants at least three to four nurses and a doctor per bed. Don't we know that? As far as the payroll is concerned, it is crucial for doctors' wages, because you know very well that, even if we are hiring tomorrow morning, there may be no offer in specific qualifications. And there's no offer, Mr. Mitsotakis. And you know that because you and you aren't stuck in glass, you travel, you've been to Great Britain many times. There is no offer because you know there are thousands of Greek doctors there. In Germany the same thing, Sweden itself. If you go to a public hospital in Sweden, Greek doctors talk there, because young doctors leaving the country, young scientists, have no motive to join the National Health System. That's a reality. How are we going to deal with this? Isn't that an opportunity now to deal with these pathogens in the National Health System? But what do you like? You like to make ghastly comparisons all the time. At the time we have a hundred dead a day - every day - in the last few days, you have been comparing the number of other European countries in the number of dead and not per population, in the total number of dead. To make a comparison of the costs these countries give beforehand on an annual basis for the national health system rather than an absolute figure, in terms of GDP. The European average in the countries of the European Union is 7% of GDP. In each country they give 7% health expenditure. We're at 4.9%. Is this not an opportunity now to increase public health expenditure? Can't we in a year do it, in two, in three? But you also come to the budget, which should be increased, you are reducing by EUR 600 million. Let's go to another poaching. I went out the other day and said: I took the OECD table - and you questioned this, even this - which shows that our country is a last resort to health expenditure after the pandemic period. And you went out, Mr. Mitsotakis, and you and your government spokesman, to deny it, by poaching back. And that's the most outrageous. I told you at the beginning of my speech that no one asks you to be Moses. Don't make fun of yourself, don't lie. "To disprove," you say, "until April was such expenditure and we have given over 700 million euros". Where are the 700 million euros? Aren't you ashamed to incorporate into health expenditure relating to the assistance of the EEAS in order to cover the insurance contributions of suspended workers? Incorporate them into so-called costs for the National Health System, i.e. the loss of your solvent policies, incorporate it in the treatment of pandemic. And second smuggling: You claim that you have given EUR 200 million of temporary and subsidiary staff remuneration. The truth is that the extra costs for temporary and subsidiary staff are only EUR 81 million. I'll testify to the Minutes. And third poaching: You know, I won't testify to ours. It's the budget. Because, okay, you may be mocking a few for a long time, a lot for a while, a lot of people can't always be fooled. You have tabled this budget. You, too, have tabled the implementation of the budget for the current year. And I show you the comparison of Tables 326 of the 2020 and 324 of 2021, for what is true. And, finally, you claim that you provided EUR 293 million for the supply of equipment and health material and by the end of September from the state budget of hospitals and primary care for Coronovirus was only EUR 144 million. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So our country is pre-elected and sweaty, not to say that it may have lost its last place by the end of the year and be last in expenditure. If that, ladies of the government, is it not an ideology, if this has nothing to do with your ideological obsession, with your opposition, your ideological opposition to the National Health System in general and the fact that in your programme before the Coronovirus you had the cooperation of the public and private sectors and the change of the legal framework - to legal persons under private law - you want to transform a series of public hospitals - then what does it have to do with that? Is this about your analgesia? We say it's not so much. It's about your idea of analgesia and not just your analgesia. I have tabled to you in the Minutes, ladies and gentlemen, and the draft budget to which the less than 600 million for 2021 relates, in relation to health expenditure. I shall try to speak for another ten minutes, Mr President, even seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u157	I prefer seven minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u158	Okay, seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u159	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u160	So, ladies and gentlemen, in some critical, very critical, in my view, issues relating to Mr Mitsotakis' position today. Mr Mitsotakis spoke to us today about the social income of solidarity. He named it in his speech not as a social income of solidarity, but as a minimum guaranteed income. As you say, the truth is one, and it is that the New Democracy Government in 2015 left to us who received just thirty thousand beneficiaries in a pilot project involving only thirteen municipalities, while the SYRIZA government left you in 2019 an institutionalised integrated programme, a universal programme involving seven hundred thousand beneficiaries throughout the country. The second and crucial issue is this: In your tritology in the House at the previous sitting, where you made statements on the crucial issues of the pandemic, you came to support essentially with a consensual style - in total contrast to your two previous speeches - my proposal to provide financial support for the weakest households. You said, "For Mr Tsipras' proposal on the financial support for the weakest households, there will be financial support for the weakest households on Christmas." Yes, sir. And you come here today and celebrate about it for the financial support of the weakest households. We also expected that there would be substantial financial support. We have proposed emergency income for a very large part of the population, because a very large proportion of the population today has a huge loss of income. And you come and make the great charity, double the social income of solidarity for the month of December, the'minimum guaranteed income', as you say, which is about two hundred and fifty thousand households. So, let's see what the big man you're doing. It's 55 million euros. Here, the State General Accounting Office, to know what you say when you ask for applause from your MPs. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Note now: In 2016, under conditions of fiscal suffocation, with the troika above our head, with Symple himself over our head and we gave 629 million euros to support horizontally a million six hundred thousand beneficiaries and not just two hundred and fifty thousand households. In 2017, we gave EUR 750 million to three and a half million beneficiaries. In 2018 we gave 780m euros to three million seven hundred thousand beneficiaries in conditions of financial crisis and with memos above our head. And now that the country is in a state of state - what do they call it in Europe? - an escape clause and there is no troika, no memoirs, no limitations for 3.5%, the great clutch you're doing, your big tip is to give 55 million euros to the most unscrupulous? Is that the dividend you're giving? I think the shame was also shamed, as the Department of Economics Effie Ahtsoglu said, after your announcements. It's a disgrace to that thing! Is that why you're celebrating? Or are you celebrating that you've saved your business? A moment ago, you told us you saved your business. Yes, sir! You are constantly talking about 24 billion euros. By the end of September, 6,7 billion euros were disbursed for the aftermath, or rather you tell us, you have to tell us - 3,1 billion euros of which are loans. And you say that, at the moment, the companies have been essentially based on the crisis. I don't know what business you have in mind. If you have ‘AEGEAN’ in mind, it may have been supported. And welcome back to her. We do not say that you badly support it, but get rights and the public, as is happening in other European countries. If you are now talking about enterprises that take loans from banks without needing them - because of the bank's 50 billion extra liquidity, this year they have only given 10 and half of these have given them to five businesses that do not need as much liquidity as the others - you may be right. But if people who work in the vast majority of small and medium-sized enterprises today heard you talking here, if they heard your speech today, they will boil with anger or think you are out of place and time. And, of course, the budget that you have presented and will be put to a debate in this House and for the current year's recession of 10.5% and a very small recovery of 4.8% in 2021 - I say, I - and that provides for 3.6 billion more taxes on those currently at a dead end in 2021. And you come to tell them that they are getting warm money through the initiatives you have taken and the reduction of insurance contributions. I won't avoid answering that. Any reduction and relief at this time, Mr Mitsotakis, is positive. Anybody! Our criticism here, however, is that if the reduction of non-working costs, insurance costs, the state budget, even for a period of time, would be a very positive measure. But when the OAS is chasing it, in fact what you are doing is depriving the workers themselves of benefits and opportunities that the OAED must give, especially during the crisis. The unemployed and the workers will be deprived of benefits. That is where our criticism lies. I come to our own proposals. I have already announced - and I am closing with this, Mr President - that the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group will present amendments to the House today concerning the real strengthening of our fellow citizens who are in urgent need. These amendments concern, firstly, the payment to the full of the Christmas gift, emergency income and direct support for vulnerable groups. More specifically, as regards the Christmas gift and given the weakness of the businesses affected - do not be mocked, talk to small and medium-sized businessmen, the people of the focus to tell you whether they can - but also, given the immediate need for the workers to support their income and to get the gift in full, we believe that the state must take full cover of the Christmas gift to the workers of the affected businesses, on the basis of their nominal wage. We are also proposing the payment in December of the emergency income, as I said before, to support all households who include even a member who is unemployed, subsidised or not, a precarious employee with a blockage, a miserable, seasonal, who belongs to people with disabilities, who are working in culture, who is a freelance professional and self-employed and who has seen his income hit rapidly at the pandemic time. We propose EUR 400 for the first adult member of each household, EUR 200 for each additional adult and EUR 100 for each minor household. We also recommend that you make direct reconnection and free supply of electricity and banning electricity, water, gas, telephony and Internet connections, especially to pandemic populations. We are talking about a measure that has been taken in many other European countries. And since we are talking about Internet access, particularly when it comes to the only possibility of accessing knowledge today, it is a crucial issue, which is about equality and social justice in the social fabric. Finally, we propose that measures should be taken to support our fellow citizens with disabilities, with a special amendment we are tabling: firstly, an extension to all those who already receive a disability allowance for six more months, the grant of the allowance to those who have submitted for the first time complete dossiers to OPEKA, compensation for the diagnosis of private doctors for the fourteen thousand of our fellow citizens who cannot complete their electronic records, because hospitals - due to an increased burden - do not respond and, finally, the granting of double disability allowance in December. Ladies and gentlemen, indeed, the country is in a very big crisis. Indeed, what is required of all of us is awareness of the criticality of the moments. We are here to support, with proposals and actions, our affected fellow citizens. What is not a given, however, is that the government has the fundamental desire - not a capacity - to respond to the essential needs of our weak fellow citizens and our small and medium-sized citizens, namely that of the middle-class, Mr Mitsotakis, whom you have deceived - is the truth - to become a Prime Minister. Now you have the least to pay her back. Our proposals are specific and I urge you to put on them and not once again from this step by saying slogans and fireworks. That's enough of slogans and fireworks! They're bored even by those who emit them. There is no more audience to listen to the lasting communication fanatics of your Communications, baptize the meat fish and announce again and again measures that you have announced and which are insufficient to cope with the painful crisis that the Greek society is going through.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u161	I call on the Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who asked to reply to the Chief of Staff Response.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u162	Now, Mr Tsipras, you are probably the expert on slogans and pyrotechnics, because only as fireworks can I take the permanent tactics of auctioning every time and ask the government to give much more of what it already gives. You made a reference to the issue of the Support Line for Pollutioned Women, '19500' and even referred to the structures that operate to support vulnerable women who are victims of violence. According to my information, Mr Tsipras - and listen to me a little, if you would like - this line, which you have advertised as your own work, has started to work in March 2011. What's going on here? Don't you have a good briefing? Isn't that accurate what I'm saying? So, at least it seems strange to me to come to Step so uninformed and to say that it is your work a telephone line that started so many years ago. You didn't have to do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u163	That line wasn't answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u164	Or your partners don't give you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u165	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u166	Look, you said the line started operating on SYRIZA. But what can we do? He started running a few years ago. This cannot be called into question and indeed makes me impression why you are trying to take on an issue in which there is an absolute cross-party consensus. I welcome the fact that all the wings of this House are coming today, on this important and symbolic day, to place themselves in public, in order to give a speech, voice, opportunity to these women who have suffered physical, verbal, sexual violence, to stand up, to speak, to cry, to break this daily silence, which condemns them to prolonged misery. You have no reason to say these things when we can agree here. You know, I have no difficulty with any positive things your government has made to recognize them. As I said very well in my first speech, the minimum guaranteed income began on the days of New Democracy, was strengthened by SYRIZA, has been constitutionally guaranteed by New Democracy and is further strengthened by this government. What do you mean when you say we've only given EUR 55 million? I'm sorry, all the billions of euros we've given to support the real economy, what is it? Aren't those in your mind? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I specifically referred to the minimum guaranteed income, because it is proven to be the one instrument which can, with the greatest potential of others, give us an accurate picture of the real economic situation of those receiving it. You know very well that in the area of allowances there was a great chaos and we did not have a full picture of whether the recipients of the allowances really had to receive them or whether they were much more prosperous than they were, at least in the official figures of the Greek state. And this came to correct the minimum guaranteed income. So when you come here and say "little," "fly" and all that you said, who are you laughing at? Come and talk to these fellow citizens, who today have this small amount of money they receive will see it double. This is the government's initiative. That is why I committed myself to supporting the most vulnerable. And because, you know, we're the ones that say we have the bad habit - for you - to do it, that's what we said, and that's exactly what we're doing. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It seems to me again, of course, that you have devoted the 3/4, 5/6 of your speech to health issues. You have actually spoken a little about the bill, but I am here to answer the issues you have raised, because there is no doubt that they are issues that monopolize the news. You made a reference to emotions. You spoke of pride, of Ministers' fairs when compared statistics. Look, Mr Tsipras, personally and, as I think, we are all very sad. We are very sad, very sad that our fellow citizens are losing their lives from this pandemic, as happens all over the world. This unprecedented health crisis can only be tackled with modesty and humility, with self-restraint, with no extremes, with self-criticism - whenever it is imposed, I have not hesitated to do it - and with a lasting desire to be better and better, because the better we can be, the more effective we can be in saving a life that we could possibly have saved if something were done better than what we are doing. This is the way to deal with it. What communication are you talking about, Mr. Tsipras? Half my time and more is spent at meetings and in constant confrontation with this great problem. We have been working hours for hours to give real solutions and to face a crisis that has global characteristics. Don't compare the judgments. You always compare to the financial situation you have received. But, in the crisis of 2015, you created it, Mr. Tsipras! Your creation was the judgment! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Here we are facing a global pandemic which has hit our country. I asked you next time, let's not make comparisons of macabres right now. Look at what we've done and how we can be better. However, since you say things that are out of place and time, I cannot answer them. You say the crisis is out of control. What's "out of control" mean, Mr. Tsipras? Explain to me a little what is going to say 'out of control', because today, if a fellow citizen needs treatment for COVID, he will have it and will have it because we have greatly increased the COVID beds and beds in our hospitals, so that we have now come to have more than a thousand two hundred intensive care units, where patients who need this kind of care. And you came here in your knowledge, you know very well what you're doing, you have a great ability to distort what you say. You referred once again to the statement made by the Minister of State, Mr Gerapetritis, on intensive treatment units. I shall submit the entire statement in the Minutes, because it is very dishonest and unfair what you are doing when Mr Gerapetti has said something that I have said. And I repeat it to be quite clear: we obviously want as many intensive treatment units as possible. That's why we doubled them. Intensive treatment units, however, are the last line of defence of the system and, if we do not provide for it, in order to drown the spread of the virus earlier with the restrictive measures that we have taken, as many intensive treatment units as we have and have, will not arrive. That's what Mr. Gerapetti said, that's what I said. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And finally, stop twisting so cynically, let alone when you know you're getting an answer. Say these when you're on your own. Do not say it in front of me, because this is the Minutes, and here is the statement by Mr Gerapetti and here are my statements, Mr Tsipras. However, I am very impressed by this: you are constantly working on what is going on in the health system. And you're doing well. Have you said a word about compliance with restrictive measures? Have you said a word, as a public person, as a party, to encourage citizens to move less, to follow measures, to keep distances, to avoid meetings? Oh, no. I haven't heard that from you. Did you run any campaign as a party on these issues and I didn't see it? Oh, no. You're talking about emotions. I am sad, but your pleasure - not yours personally, but some of your officials - for what is happening is not hidden. And don't teach me my behavior lessons when you withstand your parliamentary group the phenomenon of Polakis, with which you are fully identified as long as you cover it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It's not just him. We have heard incredible things from SYRIZA colleagues that we are almost responsible for the deaths and the prosecutor coming after us. You have a chance here, finally, to get away from these phenomena! And, in any case, to close this ICM debate, I would like to say that we have managed in the midst of a pandemic, under unprecedented pressure from the National Health System, to have these results, which are not numerically questioned. I'm guessing you don't want to tell us that the MATs we're reporting aren't those. I imagine you do not question it that so many of these are officially declared by the EAW and by the EAW systems. However, I have raised a number of WTO notices from my office. It is not a federation that is close to the New Democracy. Isn't that right? For a moment, read them out, see what the WTO said about the state of the National Health System on your own days, 2017 and 2018, about how many patients are waiting to find bed in intensive care units and do not find them, because “the hundreds of fifty” - I am reading, for example - “circuits equipped in public hospitals do not work because of a lack of staff”. That was what the WTO said about you. And that happened in seasons where there was no pandemic. I am tabling them in the Minutes, just to have a historical memory of your own things, at times that, if anything, as far as their health is concerned, have nothing to do with what we are dealing with today. [[At this point the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You have a obsession as Opposition to claim that we have an ideological problem with the National Health System. And I think you are really disturbed by the fact that this government has practically supported and supported the National Health System, because the National Health System as we see it is the pillar of universal public access by all Greek citizens, regardless of income, to quality health. We have proved in practice what we can and what we want to do about the National Health System, and I believe that the debate on the new National Health System, on the National Health System of the next decade, must start in a systematic and organised manner, when the pandemic storm is going to pass. We will support this new National Health System and we will do so. Only, you know, Mr Tsipras and gentlemen of the counter-population, that the problems of a health system are not only solved - I stress - by recruitment. There are many other issues that concern how to operate a new national health system. For example, the patient's electronic file, digital health - emblematic projects that are part of the Recovery Fund - are not all initiatives that support public health? A new primary health framework, the use of technology, so that we can provide remote services, a new public health policy, so that we have good health indicators for our population before our fellow citizens arrive to look for the services of the system, are not all health policies? Haven't things already happened? When we banned smoking in public places and set specific targets to reduce lung cancer mortality, are these all not health policies? Aren't they public health policies? Let me tell you, then, that a public health system which does not in some way cooperate with the private sector. In Sweden, is there no cooperation with the private sector? Is there no cooperation with the private sector in Germany? Obviously, we want and want to work with the private sector, but under rules and within a framework that the state always defines. And now we have asked for private sector assistance. The private sector responded and, where it did not respond, the State demonstrated that it has more tools at its disposal to comply with the private sector, when it does not want to cooperate, to offer either building facilities or staff. And that's exactly what we did. You are disturbed, however, whenever the "drake" of the neoliberal government, which you have very artistically created, it is very simple to prove that it does not exist. You are disturbed when this government comes and practically supports social solidarity and turns its eyes to the weakest. This is a stranger to you. You never imagined that a centre-right government could do that, because what you do not understand, Mr Tsipras, is that this party, the New Democracy, is a great popular party, is not a class party. It is a fact that the concept of social solidarity has been registered in both its history and its facts. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So all of this is answers to your position and to your insistence to present something which simply does not exist. When you present something that simply does not exist, the result you achieve is that nobody listens to you. And close up with business, economy, small and medium-sized enterprises, liquidity. Look, the numbers I spoke about are not questionable. I will say this again, Mr Tsipras, to hear it: 1,1 billion in a week in two hundred and twenty-five thousand businesses. You may be talking to small and medium-sized enterprises, expressing complaints. And, obviously, I am the last person to tell you that in a profound global recession there are no major problems in the economy. But there has never been a government in the history of post-multipleism which has moved so fast and efficiently to support the real economy. And these enterprises, to which you refer, are well aware of the facts of this government, and I assure you that there has not been enough time to forget the facts of your own government. You dismantled and dismantled the middle class, which has been definitively divorced from your resignation. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are the ones who reduce taxation on all businesses, we are the ones who reduce the non-wage costs of workers, both for the worker and for the employer, we are the ones who support small businesses and their liquidity, with the necessary suspensions, but also the repayable advance, which is necessary to keep these businesses up, to overcome pandemics and to enable them, when the framework of restrictive measures is finished, to find their pace again, to 'birth' new jobs and also to contribute to the growth of the economy. We are also the government which, for the first time, enabled us to subsidise not unemployment, but employment and benefit from social security contributions from new recruits, with emphasis on the long-term unemployed, for new jobs that will be created. So who moves in the world of communication and so-called "pay-outs" in the media, let the people judge it better. If you are wrong, or if the vigilant is a strangler, I have already come to the conclusion as to the attitude of Officer Opposition. I imagine many of our fellow citizens will agree with me. And since you are talking again about the issues of communication, I would like to inform you that I have asked the Minister of Health, Mr Kikilis, to contact all parties, as he has already done, to present our vaccination policy so that, in consultation with all parties, we can launch a great communication campaign to convince the Greek society of the need for our fellow citizens to be vaccinated as much as possible. I would like to believe that all the wings of the National Representation will support this effort and we will not hear all that we have heard again, that communication in the greater public health crisis is 'golden dust', to get the support of the media as a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u167	While Mr Varoufakis' speech is pending, he has asked and will be given the floor by Mr Tsipras for a brief reply to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u168	Mr. Mitsotakis, you had to speak for twenty minutes, to actually say two things: that it was the SYRIZA's fault; it was SYRIZA's fault in 2015-2019 and Paulakis, as usual; and to cover Mr.Gerapeitris and Mr.Adonis Georgiadis in their statements. You could do that in two minutes. They didn't need 20 minutes. Look, Mr. Mitsotakis, there's a known joke. I don't know if you know. When a Prime Minister leaves and takes over, he leaves three letters. At the first difficult moment it opens the first time: "Pour it in the previous". The second letter reads: 'Pox them to the Minister'. And the third letter: "Prepar yours." It's a well-known joke. You are still in the first stage, very soon you will arrive at the second stage, and you will not imagine how quickly you will reach the third. You are in the stage: "They are the last to blame for everything." Assuming the remodeling comes and you'll charge it to some of your ministers. It's certain. How quickly you'll get to stage three, the story will show it. But you're the wrong ones, Mr. Mitsotakis. You could just do what you said in the twenty minutes of speaking: modesty and humility. What was the cost of Mr. Gerapetritis and you today, when you took that nonsense he said, an accident I'll say? Everyone happens to get out and say something, get away from them. You put it to us that we perverted. And you went out again and loaded it on you. Good for you! Imagine what would happen if we had a government minister in one of the tragedies that we experienced and said: "We are going around." Imagine what would happen! And Georgiadis goes out and says: "We go around." And you go out and say, 'Well, it's good.' We said, you're still in the first stage, in the first letter. 'They are to blame for all the above.' Very soon you will be forced to charge them to your ministers. There's no doubt about it. I'd like you to say something to all the media, because it's not SYRIZA. Yesterday there was a communication with the common sense, with common sense and almost most journalists came out to say that Mr. Gerapetritis was wrong with what he said and that it is not possible to say such things. Those who came out and said that these statements reveal a lack of evidence of emotional intelligence, get out and tell them that you are the one who has no sign of emotional intelligence, because you said the same thing from the Step of the House a week ago. I didn't dare blame you. You said it yourself. I conclude, Mr Mitsotakis, by saying that we have tabled a number of proposals today. In the 20 minutes you talked, you didn't say a word. I have tabled a specific proposal to you, which concerns an increase rather than a reduction in expenditure in the upcoming budget for the National Health System of EUR 600,000. I have shown you the smuggling to want to present health expenditure after the pandemic that was not expenditure on the pandemic and you have not asked for a single apology for that. I asked you to increase spending and increase the salaries of doctors and nurses. I asked you to proceed with permanent recruitment. You didn't say that. We have also tabled four very specific amendments and you have not explained why you are rejecting them today. The first concerns the Christmas gift, that is to say, paid to the workers. It will be an essential breath for both the entrepreneurs, who have no money to pay for the workers. The second relates to substantial support for our affected citizens, with the extraordinary income of solidarity in the form of dividends. It's not a dividend now, because it's not a surplus of the surplus. However, there is the possibility that there is a liquidity available to provide substantial aid. The third amendment concerns freezing the power cuts, gas, access to the Internet, water for our fellow citizens who are currently affected. And the fourth concerns people with disabilities, which I know you also have a particular sensitivity to this issue. You didn't answer. You will vote against them. You have not found one minute of the twenty minutes of your speech, so that you can tell us why you are not even adopting one of the proposals we are tabling. A lot of words are poverty, Mr. Mitsotakis. Obviously, the people watching us will judge us. We're all judging in this life.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u169	Mr President-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u170	I will only say one sentence. I didn't find three letters, Mr. Tsipras, though! I didn't even find a router in Maximus!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u171	Mr Yiannis Varoufakis, President of the MERA25 Parliamentary Group for his own speech, is called at Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, congratulations, although it took eight months. You know very well, Mr President of Parliament, that we were the party we asked for at the first moment for a teleconferencing conference so that we could set a good example. It could have been within a few days. It took eight months. Even now, it's a good thing. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to begin by welcoming the World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. We must not round up our words, our phrases. It's not domestic violence, it's violence against women from men. It's not just a topic of behavior. It's a systemic issue. As every crisis leaves the countries of the South weaker, each crisis leaves women weaker, more tired, more exhausted, whether they are at home or in the factory, in the supermarket, and then they have to go home to work, but also in the intensive care units, usually as nurses. The problem is not just a question of behaviour, I repeat it and I will say it once again: it is systemic. A brief reference to what the Prime Minister said about the minimum guaranteed income. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, Mera25 has no objection to applauding, even if a euro increases this minimum guaranteed income, but we must warn you that we will look into this, because we have bad experience with the minimum guaranteed income. The minimum guaranteed income wasn't your idea. You applied it. The troika imposed it on you. It's a term of the troika. What was the reason for the troika bringing in and insisting on the minimum guaranteed income? It was clear when we negotiated with the International Monetary Fund and the other troikas, because they wanted it so strongly. Because they wanted to reduce social welfare. It was a way of replacing a number of benefits with one that would give it more easily to more people, but much less so as to shrink the funds that went to social welfare. We will see exactly what you are doing, and we will look forward to that. We have the experience of using the minimum guaranteed income to redistribute impoverishment among impoverished people. I listened very carefully to the Prime Minister, and I was surprised, because today is not a normal day of a normal week. Before I came to the Hall, I was in telephone with intensifiers who didn't sleep last night, working in the intensive in my constituency, in the 1st of Thessaloniki. I understand the need for the Prime Minister and, I would say, admire his courage, someone less noble would say his courage. Did you hear him? He said that the middle class was destroyed, he says, after 2015. Okay, are you serious? You can't believe that, sure. So you are not serious, so you are undermining the quality of the dialogue within the House. The middle class was destroyed between 2010 and 2014. It's clear. And, of course, you see the Prime Minister's pretending to be coming here to legislate, as if he were in a normal country, under normal conditions. It's not normal. I repeat: northern Greece has really kneeled. The hospitals at the moment - I am transporting the climate through the intensive, through the COVID chambers - have actually lifted hands up for a few seconds from desperation, but then - with their own expression - 'block', they will not let patients go like this and helpless people are currently struggling. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, just before the second lockdown was announced, we had come out as Mera25 and warned the Government that, unlike the first lockdown, we will not support you unless you communicate with the second lockdown three simple measures, without any pillowing, no auctioning from Mera25, three very simple things. First of all, hiring. Integration of assistants, both doctors and nurses, within the units in which they give the good match daily and overnight. Secondly, a public mass test system, so that we can move on, we have said so since March, from horizontal measures to targeted measures. And third order. And I remember when a few days ago - two weeks ago - the Prime Minister was here, I talked to him about a requisition, because in the fight on the way to a military mission, to a private person's order and not to negotiate with them, and in his answer - I was not able to answer him - he said that if we had done so since March, it would have cost us a lot of money. Who spoke of March and who talked about too much money? First of all, we talked about now and secondly, another rental and another order. It's the genus. We're here right now. The Merra25, ladies and gentlemen of the government, will give you another chance, so that we can at least support you in the short term. We have today tabled an amendment on liability, moderation and efficiency. I call on the government and I call on the opposition parties, please, to look at these three points in the amendment. It is the very least that we can agree on from the point of view of Parliament. First of all, the Prime Minister announced and commented on this by the Chief of Officer Responsibility for the permanentization of doctors who are in the ICU. We consider it unacceptable for the doctor - and there are very few who are not permanent in the ICMs - to be permanently resident in the national health system, the doctor in question, but the nurse with whom he is struggling all night and all day round, to turn the intangibles at risk of their own life next to - together, the AS nurse not to join the National Health System. So, let's be clear. Support will be given to the extent that you join the National Health System not only doctors but also nurses. And a second division you're trying to split, and it's also unacceptable, is between the doctors and the nurses who are in the ICUs and the others who are next door. In the past few days I was in "AHEPA" in Thessaloniki and was discussing with a commander you appointed, your own space. Talk to him. I asked him: During the periods when you add beds to the ICUs and you have no new staff, these beds what staff serves them? And your commander explained to me: "Mr. Varoufakis, the ICUs and the units that are not. For some who were in the ICUs in previous years and the ancillarys have been transferred to other units and they have the knowledge and the education to be able to return to the ICU and that is what we do." Yes, but you are saying that you will perpetuate those who are presently in the ICMs, but not their colleagues, who will put them in the ICMs tomorrow and who are not in the ICMs today. To God, I think what we are asking for is absolutely logical! Second order. You made some virtual cheques in Thessaloniki, out of place and time, off the subject. First of all, let us speak of the institutions. The Prime Minister is obviously confusing the rental with the order, which is why he was talking about a great cost. Another way to compensate, as when a field is expropriated, is to pass a road through the inside. The state doesn't negotiate with the owner. He's compensated for the legal amount without negotiation. That means requisition. In addition, what do we check and what should we check? At the moment - and again I will speak about my constituency, because I know it more well - what there is to be done is a series of large private units, such as 'DIVALKANI', for example, not some small clinics, whose order is unresolved, so that, by ordering large private units, there is decongestion. These units cannot be converted into COVID units. They don't have the training to do that. They don't have the knows-how, the know-how, but they can decongested "PAPANIKOLAOU", "AHEPA", by transferring on-calls to these private hospitals. Or, for example, a charge of "AROGY S.A.", which has two hundred beds, which yes, although it cannot replace or set up ICUs to help Thessaloniki right now, Northern Greece that is sinking, but it can certainly help to restore patients who come out of the ICUs, who today have no place to go. And under no circumstances should what is being done today and which I am told by doctors from Thessaloniki, from Northern Greece, be allowed to choose which patients they will take and who will not take. They get cancer, they don't get brains. That means a task, ladies and gentlemen of the government. We are now asking you to proceed to this measure in the context of our amendment. It's the second part of the measure. A parentheses before I enter third. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, the Couple, I am conveying a request from the medical world in Northern Greece. I did not believe this when I was told, but this is the case: there are no representatives of the medical world of Thessaloniki and Alexandroupolis in your committee of scientists and epidemiologists. If they were, they tell me from the medical world of Northern Greece, you would have, the government, refreshed much faster, through the signs of the waste water, that you would lose the game in Thessaloniki. Please, that is a parentheses, it is not part of our amendment - include epidemiologists, representatives of the medical world of Northern Greece, especially Thessaloniki and Alexandroupolis, in your scientific team. I now come to the third part of our amendment: public network of mass tests, integrated into the National Health System. We call this Merra25 - you are tired, Mr President of Parliament, of listening to us - from March and you do not. In our amendment, because we are not silkworms and we are tabling an amendment which I really believe can be taken into account, adopted and voted for by everyone in this Chamber, we are talking about the first step, which must be a very simple one: a commitment by the government for weekly tests at hospitals, nursing homes, prisons and refugee structures. This has had to happen since March. It does not matter, let it be the first step today, so that we can create the necessary public network of mass tests for the whole population or a large majority of the population to be tested by mass tests, so that we can go from horizontal measures, lockdown, to active, targeted pandemic prevention and treatment. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard the Prime Minister talk about vaccination. How's the vaccination going to be done? Do you have a shot? If you have any, why don't you share it with us? The Prime Minister has asked us to help counter-population and we too are going to develop the climate that will give citizens the feeling that the vaccine is something that needs to be done and we are going to do that. You guys are organizing the vaccination system. You're talking about over a thousand centers. Where are these? I want to share with you some of the information you sent me from Berlin yesterday from the Department of Health. Let me tell you - if you do not know and I am sure you do not know - that last weekend there was a simulation test throughout Germany, a simulation test involving the German Red Cross, the German army and the public health system. In this simulation spaces were used, large spaces, where there may be large refrigerators, because you know the problem very well with the need to keep the vaccines at very low temperatures. The aim of the simulation is to see whether they can in each of these centres inoculate a hundred and twenty patients an hour, that is, a thousand five hundred per day, assuming that, in order to do this legally and correctly, a procedure is needed. The citizen needs to come in, collect his or her data, be informed of the possible risks, because any vaccination, any medicine, and his risk, is to sign a form of consent by the citizen, there is a waiting room, a vaccination room, a recovery room. As part of this simulation in Germany, in the sixteen regions, the Landen begins with a target by 16 December to have eight centres in each region, so that they can calculate that they will have a hundred and fifty thousand vaccinations every day and by 15 January to multiply these centres, to build this public network in each neighbourhood, a centre per 100 000 inhabitants. And they say that in the good scenario of very well-organised Germany, at best in cases, 75% of the population will have reached vaccination, which is necessary for the population to be immune in July. That's all in Germany. You, gentlemen and ladies, see you here smiling under your masks, what footage do you have on them? You don't have one. If you had, you'd have shared it with us. And if you do not share them with us, the question arises: Why do you not share them with us? Our proposal from the outset - and we called it Merra25 since March here - was as follows: the network of centres for mass testing throughout Greece, which will then be transformed into vaccination centres. We hope that mass testing, which is transformed into a mass vaccination network, will then be overtaken by the pandemic problem - will be integrated into primary care, which we do not have and which is systematically depreciated in the Memorandum years, even today. I went to the IKA at the Portal of Axis in Thessaloniki and saw the situation in a standard primary care center there. What I have said to you, the three points in our amendment, are absolutely minimal. Nor is the criminal minimalism of the New Democracy press that I see from SYRIZA, who submits a report of ideas, with which I have no objection. But let us talk today about what needs to be done at this very moment about the minimums and then move on to the rest, colleagues of the SYRIZA. I therefore call on the government and the opposition to vote together on this amendment as the minimum. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, I'm afraid you won't. You have lost control of the pandemic, on the one hand, and, on the other, to disorientate public opinion, unfortunately you are moving towards polarisation and speeding up a planned dilemma in authoritarianism. The last time we were here and there was the Prime Minister - then he listened, today he is gone - I spoke about'stadal erosion of democracy through café absurdity'. These were my words, verbatim, and I referred to the inside erosion that we have seen in Hungary, which we have seen in Poland. At some point, when I was provoked by Members of the Co-Population, who were shouting at me that we have democracy here, my answer, if you remember, is that dictatorships no longer come with tanks, they are not made with tanks, they are made through gradual mutation, corrosion and dildoing. Recently, Mr President of the House, you will allow me to say this as lightly as I can, we have also seen this spectacle with the projection of a tank in the House building. It is a post-modern version of this "YENNATION" of Greece. Shame on us. The tank on Evros, if you like, to see it as a symbol of national security and freedom. The tank on the Syntagma Square, projected on the front of the House, is a shame on Greek parliamentarianism. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, your Government has tested its forces in this erosion of parliamentaryism for the past few days, weeks, with a peak on November 17th. We saw bowling at MPs. We saw the top officers of police poding in thousands of young uniforms, young and young, who had them chasing us, seven MPs, who were at full distance with each other, with our masks. And they had the kids there, the uniforms, one on the other, what do they do? To circumvent Article 62 of the Constitution. We have come to the point of putting the police, just to support and stir up Mr Chrysochide's steel determination to say "decide and order" and then go to public prosecutors' investigations because the MPs have not complied with the suggestions. This is a diversion, which you planned for a long time ago. Because, as we said at Mera25, before July 2019, the imposition of neoliberal practices in the context of the Memorandum will require more and more autocracy doses. You planned it, just when you lost the pandemic, you pressed the gas into authoritarianism and the "orbanisation" of Greek democracy. Your irrationality was sceptical, I'm not saying. The disorientation on the one hand and the gradual "healthyening" of Greek democracy. You put Article 62 of the Constitution on the plaster. When you put an article in the plaster, then you put the rest. Yesterday morning, the Legal Adviser of Mera25 went to the Council of State to request the conclusion of the Government's Committee of Epidemiologists, in which the Council of State referred to the decision that reacted to our request for the annulment of the ban. We got that paper. It is a shame, ladies and gentlemen. We do not make this public, because we respect the procedure until we reach the trial, but it is clear that this government is working on the scientists it invokes. It is clear from the paper we have seen that it was the opinion of the Scientific Committee on the Prohibition of the Way of the Polytechnic. It is a paper that, if you see it, especially those of you who are legal, you will be ashamed of it. So what are you doing? You undermine the science and prestige of the Committee of Scientists you invoke. And all this in the context of the 'orbanisation' of our lives. It was, of course, expected, ladies and gentlemen of the government, since you were destroying the middle-class period, which you were dropping the GDP from 240 billion or letting it fall faster, faster on the downhill - from 244 billion to 178 billion - when I entered the Ministry of Finance - after you handed over the taxes, the Greek Statistical Office, the public property, the TIADED, the "Financial Stability Fund" so-called, essentially the shares of the Greek State in the banks that the Greek citizen rescued, borrowed by the troika, after having delivered all this, in the midst of a pandemic, and the bankruptcy law, while the citizens were not able to protest. Another erosion of this democracy, to pretend that you can legislate so importantly, when the people out there have no opportunity to react, does not even have the opportunity to consult in a convention, at a meeting! So since you have done all this, you have done some other things. You have recently maintained in place of the Governor of the Bank of Greece a commander responsible for the start of the bank run since December 2014. A unique act in the chronicles of central banks, which should have led to its depopulation immediately. You kept him. You have abolished the discrimination of powers by transferring the President of the Council of State to the Presidency of the Republic, essentially by sending a signal, a message to the highest judges that, if they are seated as good children, a very good position awaits them. You have shown to the President of the Council of State a lady who will remain in history as the rapporteur for the unheard of proposal, that the abolition of the Greek Constitution with the memorandum was constitutional. It does not allow the Ministry, at the same time, the President of the Parliament: to support the right of Members, the Vice-President of the Parliament, to cross the Queen's Wisdom on the afternoon of 17 November, when the measures have been fully completed, from the point of view of the free movement of citizens. The only people who could not be released, trapped in a violent cord of Mr Chryssohoid's police, were us, the Members of this House with Sofia the first - first - and the President of Parliament, who I am sure at that time did not feel well about this constitutional diversion. It was not possible for the Government to intervene in favour of a member of the Bureau of Parliament. And now you're talking about responsibility and consensus, after all that. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Do you really want a consensus? We're here. We know how to throw the tons. Here's the chance. We have one amendment, three things: Integration into the National Health System of all subsidiarys who have a minimal pre-service - not the ones you took yesterday, but those who are at least twelve months - who have the expertise and are giving the struggle at the moment. Include everyone, whether they're in the ICU, or not they're in the ICU, whether they're doctors or they're nurses. Secondly, the mass test network, which will normally evolve into a mass vaccination network, for which - you are supposed to be - cut. At the same time, orders like those I said. Take away the papers from the ERC hospitals, going to private clinics, large units, to dismantle these ERC units. These three things if you do, we may begin to think that there is a possibility to return from the edge of the constitutional cliff and the diversion. I am afraid, however, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Coupling and Reconciliation, that unfortunately there will be no vaccine for the fifth memorandum, which is a given and which we have explained here - there will not be. And because there will be no vaccine for the fifth memorandum, who have been in this House since March have been talking about a minimum recession of 10%, which will result in 15%? It's just us, Mera25. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] There will be no vaccine against these developments. And because there will be no vaccine against this collapse, there is no vaccine for the New Democracy's extreme right-wing DNA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u173	I just wanted to say that Mr Varoufakis reiterated his view that the promotion of the three-minute film on the honour day of the Armed Forces, in particular some representations, threatens democracy. I have a completely opposite view. The Armed Forces in a democratic country are fully integrated into the democratic community. They protect the country's external borders. And at least we are obliged to honour them as institutional factors. This day, on 21 November, it has been established for some time by an act of the Ministerial Council since 1998. It is our primary obligation in times in which we cannot make events, to show - even in this way - the gratitude and honour we have in the Armed Forces, which I obviously do not see in any way as a threat to either parliamentaryism or democracy, but I think they are protecting the country and doing a social project that is important all the time that the country has this double adventure and the threat from Turkey but also the threat from pandemic. Mr. Loverdo, you have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, will you give me the right to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u175	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll talk to the mask. Mr President, there is no doubt that we are here to honour both the people who give the war to the ITH and the Armed Forces. We have absolutely no disagreement with the need to honor all the heroes and heroines who have fallen for the homeland and those who support it today, whether uniforms or out of uniform. That's not our argument. Our disagreement is, firstly, aesthetic and, secondly, semantic. The tank on the front of the Greek Parliament is reproached for a country that has passed one coup after another. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Do you want us to project something else? Can we view images of the kids in Tepelini? Let's do it. The tank has a symbolism that, if you don't understand who it is, then I'm really going down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u177	I close here by saying that pointing to the attention of the Armed Forces exercises of all three Armed Forces lies in the honour of the Armed Forces. The symbolism you have spoken about does not, at least in my own understanding, have anything to do with seeing with another eye what everyone sees with honor and pride. There is currently no link between the Armed Forces and the civilization that existed fifty years ago. It's another country, other Armed Forces, another situation. So the exercises of the military that were put forward in those few minutes do not pose a threat to democracy. It would be a downfall for democracy, which is not the case, if it were threatened by a three and a half-minute film. I'm turning this off. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u178	Let us see, Mr President, and which of all those who are shouting have been regularly recruited.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u179	Where did you go?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u180	I normally did my term of office. Do you have any doubts? I normally made my term of office twenty months. Where did you go?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, please. We are in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u182	To Mr. Skourletis, tell them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u183	I tell all of you, ladies and gentlemen. Please. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of saying that the Change Movement and its Members - each and every one of us personally - are in the race, in the front line of the struggle to limit and eliminate the phenomenon of violence against women, beyond that - I do not think there is anyone or someone in this House to say no - I want to inform my fellow Members that one aspect of this issue has been worked out by an activist of scientists - a young woman, a young woman - at the Aegean University with a diplomatic job in the construction of the feminine homicide. Please, please, addressing the Aegean University, see it. Mrs. Catherine Ziga, the writer, is really excellent. Ladies and gentlemen, in this debate on a draft law which has too many provisions concerning aspects of the social state, the Change Movement, PASOK, comes from a position of power. And it comes from a position of power because all the major changes concerning social policy in our country, since the expansion of the IKA, the creation of the ESS, the EEAY, all the individual measures for the social state, are products, political children, children of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement. And since there was a debate on strengthening what is needed in this House by the Prime Minister and the Chief of Officerial Representation, I proudly repeat to this House that a more important measure of strengthening what is needed by the CSCE has not been in Greece again, no matter what you say. It was a measure that concerned the low pensioners who completed their monthly income and not once a year - I repeat: their monthly income - with a sum that made their lives decent. This was introduced by the Government of Costas Simitis in 1996 by Law 2434, Article 20, ladies and gentlemen. And what became of this allowance, which had come to be distributed to over three hundred thousand low pensioners? Near the four hundred thousand had come to distribute this allowance. Repealed by the previous government in the summer of 2015. So that we do not forget who we are in this Chamber and what an offer each party needs in the social state, when it is time to govern. Today, by modernising our presence on the basis of social needs, we have some amendments which I would like to put forward in my speech. I am referring for the seventh time, as you said, Mr Mulkiotis, since March, we are saying this and recommending it to Parliament, that the nurses of public hospitals join the heavy and unhealthy. This work, this profession, must be seen as heavy and unhealthy. Because this is what a lot of people say, and the Chief of Officerial Representation mentioned it, I want to tell him that he was running until a few months ago. Why didn't he? And I'm not going to let anyone object to me why we didn't do it. Because we, through me, have integrated the nursing professions of private hospitals into the unhealthy professions. I did this and suggested to the then Minister for Finance, who is responsible for the issues of workers in public hospitals, to do the same. Neither that of our times nor, however, Mr Chakalotos, and now Mr Stagioras have taken such an initiative. Anyone who wishes to claim to this House that it defends those who are fighting the battle from the front in the health system in the public health system in this regard has nothing but to accept our amendment today, which we are tabling for the seventh time. We are also tabling an amendment concerning the participation of a representative of the RESEMA in the OAED Management Board, because for the OAED I will devote the main part of my speech. It is Article 31, relating to the resources, of this bill. We are making this proposal, Minister. I think you could see it and by the end of the sitting you could accept it. It does not produce costs. It's a symbolic indication of social sensitivity. You have to accept it. In addition, Minister, we have made a very good contribution. We monitor the action of the workers at the "Sikiridio Foundation", which ensures that they inform us about their initiatives almost weekly. And with our amendment, following these people's contribution to pro-active issues, we say that the 'Sikiaridis Foundation of Unappropriated Children' should be incorporated as an annex to the Centre for Social Welfare in Attica. We did not come here to bid benefits, as usual made by defenceless parties, as if we hadn't spent a decade of economic difficulties. We are proposing regulations which are institutional and which help without producing costs. So far, from what I have said, it has produced, but not much, the inclusion of nurses in the heavy and unhealthy professions. In addition, we have made an amendment which also does not produce costs, the whole parliamentary group, headed by the President of the Change Movement, to extend the time limits for borrowers. You are not competent, but you can contact your fellow Member and see whether our amendment - which is very well tabled, in that it has technical competence - can help people who are involved in this crisis and find it difficult as borrowers in a very serious way. You have also taken the initiative - I do not remember exactly what month of the pandemic in the spring phase - to make arrangements to reinstate the arrangements for those debtors who have lost the deadline, have lost one or two months of their obligations, because it has made them very difficult - as we all confess or accept - to pandemic. We can extend this measure - and this is our amendment, Mr Stakoura, because you are responsible for it - until 17-11 of this year. Ladies and gentlemen, with those and others, with our remarks, the amendments we are making and with our general presence here - which, I repeat, have distinctive limits from populism and the abstractions - when we speak of a social state, I stress, indisputably - in the minds of every citizen, the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement, the Change Movement, with the policies it has implemented as a government but also the policies it proposes - without populism, I repeat - in the context of the present and of the previous government. In view of the contributions made by the rapporteurs of the parties I cannot see, ladies and gentlemen, the intervention of our own, Mr Mulkiotis, an article in the draft law. That's why I'm nervous about his intervention. Rule an opinion on an article which, according to the Rules of Procedure of the House, is the best one a Member can offer when the debate on the articles is unified. He has not omitted a provision of the draft law by our dear colleague, to tell our views, where we are negative, where we are positive, where we are complementing the arrangements. It was particularly important - and here I will also stand - in Article 31, which is the spearhead of this draft law. Mr Markopoulos, the Prime Minister, the Minister, dedicated very important parts of their speeches to the positive measure of reducing employers' and workers' contributions. Rule 31.3% reduction. We need to stand here, however, in a clear and concrete way. The speech was one of the most militant ministers in Ministries with a social suffrage - Work, Health - when he proposed to Prime Ministers that the contribution aimed at pensioning fully with the contribution aimed at medical and pharmaceutical insurance and other benefits and pensions be deducted from the pension contribution and State aid and not withholding taxes on all social services providers, in particular OAED. IKA debts to OAED were incredible and I do not know today what the respective debts of the OAED are to OAED. Listen. The complete distinction was not accepted by any Prime Minister. We suggested it to Mr Tsipras, too, when Mr Katrugalos had brought his insurance. We have reiterated this as a starting point for Mr Brutsi too. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I'm going to need some more time. Everyone avoids this drastic measure, this rationalized 100% change, because they fear they will not be able to respond to pension requirements. But that's how problems are covered. The government is now coming to say: I am retraining about 242 million from the OAED, because I am reducing contributions for OAED. I replace this lack of funds from the state budget and move on. The reduction in contributions is not a fixed arrangement, it is not a fixed measure. I am fantasticly in favour of lowering contributions. Who's raised them in recent years? Who's raised them in recent years? SYRIZA's government in the summer of 2015, 6% for health, 6% please! They were decreasing in the previous period. As regards this reduction, when it comes to a reduction in an employer's contribution, it is a development measure. There is no objection, my colleague, our rapporteur, said that it is a development measure. But you need to see how this reduction results. Is she stable? It's not. It's about 2021. How are resources replaced for OAED? They are replaced by the State aid. If next year there is no State aid, but it remains reduced, below 3%, the contributions, what will be done? We're worried. We have concerns, ladies and gentlemen, not absurdly. We are concerned, because we know how Greek public finances work. We know what pressure is being exerted on the finance ministers, the respective finance ministers, from the budgetary circumstances that the country is going through. We know how easy it is to maintain the reduction in 2022 and more years, without replacing the resource in favour of OAED, which, with this waste, is, on purpose, if its budget is not completed, loses very important aspects of its activity. We are dealing with this provision - and I say again, so as not to be misunderstood - always as a principle that reductions in contributions are a development measure. But our custody here is earthly, it is a serious reservation, and we think at all wickedly, we think in a politically responsible manner. Since we wanted to strengthen both its business and its employees, why did we not make a tax intervention? Why in the 2021 budget, ladies and gentlemen, are indirect taxes increased at the expense of the direct? I repeat - we have said this to Mr Tsakalotos, to the current ministers - that this increase in indirect taxes at the expense of direct taxes, this relationship, which is why it is the photo of genuinely philosophical policy or the photograph of a genuinely anti-popular policy. Madam President, I believe that in the way I am trying and trying to find out in these difficult circumstances - in these circumstances we all want to put them behind us, to rediscover the country's pace and to deal with its problems - no matter how difficult it is, the overall governmental work of the House takes note of it, but the priorities that create the problems of the pandemic, the Greek-Turkish relations, the action of Turkey and immigration are hidden in the government. That's what I'm gonna close. Ladies and gentlemen, the overall governmental task is to listen to the Council's legislative initiative and to parliamentary control, the pandemic hides it. The pandemic, Greek-Turkish and migrants are the three top topics the country is facing at the moment, behind which we are convinced - and I am actually hiding the government weaknesses we are detecting. We identify ministries that do not go any further, we identify policies that are announced and not conducted. We are dealing with frugality, we are facing the same policy of co-responsibility as the 'individuals'. We will be given the opportunity to develop them in other cases of the legislative initiative of Ministers, but especially when we put pandemic as a country and as a Europe and as a planet behind us, and we can enter a political normality, which means that opposition will bear the Caesar of Caesar, criticising where he thinks he can contribute, but also criticising where he thinks he should increase tons and even denounce them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u185	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will give the floor now to the Minister of Finance to put it in his amendment. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Gregoriadis will take the floor for six minutes and we will go to the MPs. Mrs Auger will speak from SYRIZA and Mrs Head from New Democracy. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u186	Madam President, thank you very much. I will develop the amendment by a general number of 585 and a special 53, to prove what my dear colleague Mr Loverdos has just said, that we are announcing and exercising. I am going to put myself in an amendment. On budgetary matters, you will allow me not to speak today, we have a lot of time already in the committee we are debating. Just one sentence: the 2021 budget, as for 2020, does not include any new tax. On the other hand, it includes permanent and non-permanent reductions in taxes and insurance contributions. We are stable in this policy, and we respect it. Any increase in tax revenue is not from an increase in tax rates, but it is from the economic path after a certain point in 2021. I'm closing the parentheses. There are two points in the amendment. Heating allowance: The proposed provision provides that heating allowance may be granted to consumers of the subsidized heating fuels set by the Minister of Finance. In fact, in this decision we intend to include other forms of subsidized heating fuels, such as gas, LPG, firewood and biomass, in other words, pettte. In particular, the heating allowance for the winter period 2020-2021 will also be paid to households throughout the territory that consume gas or liquefied gas, while households in mountain areas - which were also demanding many colleagues from all the wings - with a population of up to two and a half thousand people who consume firewood or tellets will also receive the heating allowance. The calculation of the allowance changes radically and henceforth will take into account the weather conditions prevailing in each region. It is also a request from many colleagues from all sides. We know that there are municipalities in the country that also have mountain and plain districts, but now there will be discrimination. The calculation of the allowance will be based on an investigation by the National Meteorological Agency, which calculated heating needs in two thousand places across Greece. The minimum level of the allowance is 80 euros, and it can even reach 600 to 700 euros for areas with very high heating needs. And it goes without saying - as opposed to the previous government - that we are also making an advance payment of the allowance. The amount of the allowance shall be calculated at least EUR 84 million and the ministerial decision setting out all the details shall be adopted within the following days after the date of the adoption of the provision. The purpose is to also open the relevant platform for the payment of the allowance within December. With regard to Article 2. With Article 2 we are dealing with the question of the difficulties of all kinds arising from specific management procedures because of restrictive measures to deal with the pandemic. In particular, current conditions may make it difficult to complete the maturation of the assets to be divested and make it difficult to obtain the documents required for the submission of the tenders themselves, so as to discourage potential investors concerned. Due to the great importance of the successful outcome of the specific management procedures and in particular in view of the challenges faced by those of them who go towards the end of their duration, the proposed regulation provides for the extension by three months of the closure of the specific management procedures. At the same time, the proposed arrangement shall be extended by 14 calendar days as long as the competitive procedures are completed by 31-12-2020, as well as those procedures completed during the period from 7 November to the entry into force of this Regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u187	Thank you very much, Minister. Madam Secretary, would you also like to make your position on the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u188	Not on the amendment. I had asked for the floor with the President, Mr Tassoula, before, to speak after Mr Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u189	I haven't been informed about that. If you do not have a point, please, because I have announced my colleagues beforehand. Thank you. The parliamentary representative of Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis now has the floor. Here, you have the floor for only six minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u190	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's amendment to the draft law contains three simple and comprehensible articles on meeting our national health system, so that it will simply continue to work - nothing more - so that we can lose as few people as possible. And precisely because this is about lives, we ask you not to take this amendment as another amendment aimed at opposing you. We oppose you, it is the truth, Minister, with passion and fury, and we will continue to do so by tabling in this fight all our souls to defend our completely defenceless people. The amendment we are tabling today, however, is neither a part of our opposition nor a part of our visions nor our views on how and, above all, how many doctors and sanitaries a normal national health system should operate. It doesn't even get into the conversation how much all these people have been impoverished for so many years now. We do not all of this today, we will do so from tomorrow, as we know today exactly what government we have toward us and what vision this government has of health, a vision that is enclosed in only one word: privatization. So as we know who we have in front of us, your ideological limits, but above all the interests you have been serving over time, we ask you to accept this amendment, to simply do the three completely unequivocally, the three absolutely basic ones. Your acceptance - we assure you - is directly related to reducing future loss of human life. What are we asking you for? Mr Varoufakis said so, and I repeat them: repetitive tests throughout the ESS staff, organic integration of the supplementary medical staff of the ESS into the positions and the health units that he already serves, not two microscopic clinics in Thessaloniki, but all of the private sector that can serve in the fight against COVID - in the constitutional framework, of course, as clearly defined by Article 18(3) of our Constitution and Article 22(4), with the minimum compensation provided for by the ERPY - and with immediate incorporation of these units into the broader plan of the state to deal with the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, if your Government does not accept the three absolutely urgent and very self-evident articles in the Amendment No 25, it will now become and henceforth be considered not to be a coordinator in the effort to limit the pandemic, but to contribute to its expansion. I'm sorry to say that! Now I would like to refer for a moment to the famous Artists' Register, as I was an artist and hope I will be again sometime. You know that on 20 October the famous deadline for registration has expired in the famous Artists' Register, for which the Government itself had stated that it expected forty-two to forty-five thousand colleagues in the cultural sector to be registered. Unfortunately, only seventeen thousand people were written. Fortunately the seven thousand of them are actors. For the other two thousand actors, as I learned yesterday that I spoke to the President of the Greek Actors Association, Spyros Bibilla, written late, we are surely learning that they will not receive from the Ministry the allowance of October and November and that they will probably not receive any allowance from here any further. Having recognised that the beneficiaries expected themselves as government were about forty-five thousand - although we know very well that the actual number of beneficiaries is more than double, that it is more than 100 000 - should not do anything now to find a way of enjoying the allowance and the other twenty-eight thousand, which, according to your own, I repeat, have been entitled to, but have not been given the deadline or been informed too late or have never been informed of the announcement of the Artists Register? Will you do something about that? And I'm not just talking about actors. It's obvious from the numbers I mentioned that the rest of the artists, the workers in the arts, are multiples of us actors. I hope you realize that too many of my colleagues - colleagues in the broad sense of the term - because my colleagues are also the cleaners working on the theaters, all the musicians, all the dancers - have any acceptance or aid since the end of February, and they are now gradually entering into a real famine regime. If that doesn't even mobilize you, I'm afraid nothing more will be able to mobilize you. And since we're talking about actors, let's talk a little bit about singers and musicians, who in turn, as you know, face a bunch of problems that existed before, but they're expanding and worsening because of the coronary and the new conditions that he creates. One key issue - and I will repeat that this issue is not currently the case - is the collection of their related rights. All singers claiming related rights must be required to be registered in their cooperative. Regular and profitable members are calculated around a thousand four hundred sixty-five. The Agency for the Collective Management and Protection of Contributory Singers "ERATO", i.e. the cooperative of Greek singers, has strict rules for the recognition of members, i.e. those who have the right to vote and stand for election in their general assembly. More than a thousand people, who are registered in the cooperative, cannot have the status of a member, who is only at the hands of about a hundred people, so that the so-called "advanced" have no real right, while the management of the cooperative focuses almost exclusively on related rights from the public execution of songs at the broadcasting stations. Also, in the administration of their cooperative until now - and still - the current singers, celebrities, while a person from the traditional or popular song represented minority. However, in the last antiquities of the 'ERATTO' cooperative, which took place in May last year, a special effort was made to exclude even this minimum minority of one member and with various generalisations, finally only members of the administration of their absolute selection were elected, under procedures not only transparent, legal and accepted. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I will finish quickly, Madam President. It is therefore necessary to review the whole framework and legislation and to investigate the basis for the collection of related rights by all users. In addition, the collection revenue held by these agencies for the allocation of related rights to the level of the law, that is to say 20%, should be limited, which is more than systematically exceeded. In short, ladies and gentlemen, there is an urgent need not only for transparency and legality, but also for solutions to help young people or less well-known artists survive the economic catastrophe that has occurred and peaked with the coronary crisis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Before I finish, Madam President, let me just say two things. The first is that I heard the Prime Minister amazed - not that I do not believe it, but amazed at his actions so far - to say that all of you in New Democracy are very sad, and even devastated, that many people are dying. They're dying a hundred fellow citizens a day in the last two or three days. I would like to ask him frankly and manually: he has cut the health budget this year, in 2021 compared to the previous year, by EUR 572 million. It has reduced public health spending! So does anyone really believe in this Chamber or out there listening to us that this political act can express the regret of a Prime Minister? He may have increased the budget if he's sorry we're dying. And I really say it. And I'm ending up with something I can't avoid saying. I really would like to ask you, particularly the Minister of Citizen Protection - I imagine he will listen to me from somewhere - if he intends to arrest Yanis Varoufakis, Dimitris Koutsoubas and Alexis Tsipras before the chief of the Golden Dawn, Christos Pappas. I would remind you, because the means you have purchased do not remind us regularly, that Mr Christos Papapas, a murderer for a court ruling on a moral automobile in murders, a serial killer, has fled over a month now since the decision was issued, and the Greek Police are preparing to catch the Chiefs of the entire Anti-Population, thus criminalizing the opposition in this country. Before I leave - and I conclude - I am tabling the report on the development of the amendment we tabled on how much more we would like to see, but because of the urgent circumstances we are not asking for it at this time. Thank you for your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u191	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mrs Auger has the floor for seven minutes from SYRIZA. Mrs. Auger, because, as far as I can see, your microphone is in trouble, I will give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Michailidou, because he has to leave for the Ministry. Here, Mrs. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said during the debate in committee, I repeat that I am extremely optimistic because we are bringing to the vote a bill containing adequate measures for the relief of our vulnerable fellow citizens, but also for the prevention of their vulnerability, their social inclusion and their social reintegration. This is a bill that has a direct but even longer-term footprint, a bill with a very specific but even more horizontal character, a bill that makes social policy an active lever to promote substantial reforms. My Minister has analysed in very detail both the committees and today what the second part of the bill does. The first part, as we have already discussed, has four main axes: firstly, the axis of the first, immediate relief from the pandemic, secondly, the protection of the child, thirdly, the fight against poverty and the strengthening of our most vulnerable fellow citizens and, fourthly, the simplification of procedures. So on the first axis, on the path of relief for our fellow citizens, their families and workers from the pandemic, let us see what we have done all these months. We have drawn up the most stringent protocols for the operation of increased vulnerability structures across Europe. I have spoken with my counterparts, but also with our ambassadors in the countries where they have gone harder than all the first wave of pandemic, so that I can see how they shielded their structures in the second wave and see what lessons we have to learn. However, what I can tell you with absolute honesty is that the protocols we have put forward and, on the recommendation of the Special Committee for Infectiouss, are the most stringent protocols throughout Europe. These are the protocols for elderly care units, the protocols for open and closed disability structures, the protocols for nursery schools and the centres for the creative employment of children with disabilities. But - and here comes the axis within the bill that we ask you to vote on - it is not only the state that is able to demand and, if you like, to make the strictest protocols. It must help to keep them. So we have several provisions that do just that, help the beneficiaries, the workers, the structures for maintaining the most stringent protocols. In particular, we provide for two million health supplies for elderly housing units and social welfare centres throughout the country, as we also anticipate the financing of 100% of open disability structures, which, in the first wave of their pandemic, were asked to operate at 50% of the capacity, precisely because the infectiousists then recommended that we should not be assembled within them. So for 50% of the capacity and knowing from the institutions themselves, from the parents, from the administrations, that they had 100% of the costs, we cover them in it. As far as child protection is concerned, we have been establishing a legal framework for creative employment centres for the first time. Our intervention is very specific. These were operated by a Ministerial Decision of 2001, which was simply authorised for privileged structures. Creative employment centres must, however, have - and that is what we define, this is what we ask you to vote on - an authorisation procedure, have a maximum number of beneficiaries, have specific areas per structure, have specifications for their staff and the specific qualifications required for their staff. Why do creative employment centres care about us? We care because we care about child protection. We care very much about child protection. We are interested in ensuring the creative activities of children. And, yes, we don't want, like the Ministry of Education, children in the same environment, whatever that is, for ten hours in the day. So, that's why we put this part into our regulation that says that creative employment centres can be in schools only if no other solution is found. We care about creative employment centres, because sixty-five thousand children each year go to creative employment centres. This year they went with funding from our Ministry of Education 25% more disabled children in disability-care centres and, besides that it is 110 million euros allocated for this purpose, it is also a sector that has more than doubled. Attributes I tell you that in one year private creative centres increased by 124%, and municipalities by 88% respectively. So what do we say? In a sector where we are concerned, because we really are concerned about child protection, and it is a sector that is more than doubled in a year, the state must finally be here and set limits, rules and regulations. In the same context of child protection we also put other articles, which, as the Prime Minister quite rightly said, you know, many times may not make headlines or many times may not be the first ones shown in the news releases, but they are important to us. To be able to adopt or become a contractor to a family with a biological disability is important to us. It supports, on the one hand, the depopulation of children in child protection institutions, but on the other, it also supports the family itself. We therefore support the disabled families and do so in practice. Now, the last part of the child protection axis is the extension we make to the birth allowance. We legislated in January 2020 and started to run immediately. We give EUR 2 000 for every birth in our country and for any cases, whether technical errors or family reasons or even more of the services, they have not been able to give this amount, so that within six months a family can get it. Today, ladies and gentlemen, it is a special day. It's a wake-up day. This is the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. It is something that my Prime Minister, my Minister, has stressed, and I have very pleased to see that all the members of all the national Parliament's parties have raised it. We had obviously not synchronized it, but the juncture brought it to the fore today, the state actually shows its care for women victims of violence. That is why, for the first time, women who are staying in houses of abused women can join the minimum guaranteed income and women who are staying in these hostels for the first time can receive the minimum guaranteed income, I hope from today that this law will be passed. And that is why we ask you to vote for it, because now will be the first time that the hostels of abused women have run and not - as the Prime Minister said - since 2015. Why not? By ensuring funding from 2009 and calls from 2011 and 2012, they have been running since then. We - I have told you many times - have no problem, we are very positive, as the Prime Minister said, to recognise any work that has been done. And you can see it. But we are a state with a continuity and we build on it. We don't go back and with false evidence we tell who did what when he hasn't done it. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Madam President, I will still need three, four minutes. Axis to support the most vulnerable: We give double minimum guarantee to all beneficiaries on the last working December. However, we do not just give a double minimum guaranteed. We are also broadening the reservoir of the beneficiaries. As I said, we are expanding the pool of beneficiaries with the abused women who live in structures, but also with the homeless who live in structures. We are coming and establishing the 'House and Work' programme. Yes, it was a program that ran beforehand. It was a program piloted in ten years had run twice. Within a year and a half we've already run it once. And what do we do? We're doing this for which the Chief of Officerial Response before asking for the credit. What did Mr. Tsipras say before? He said that a pilot policy of the New Democracy, the minimum guaranteed income, came the next government, its own government and made it universal. And that's why he's asking for credit. Why, though, when we are calling not for credit, but for voting on the establishment of a pilot project in a permanent programme, they turn us into a boomerang? Fourth axis, improvement of procedures. There we come and are facing delays from the municipalities, or even the absence of payments, in particular with regard to the housing allowance for uninsured overtime. This is about our two thousand uninsured fellow citizens, many of whom have been victims, if you like, of many misdemeanours or of the absence of liquidation on the part of the municipalities. So we come and we institutionalize it centrally. We also do so digitally and together with this we add a provision which brings the inconsistency to all benefits. So, now, there is a uniform policy of gross, but also unreserved, for all our benefits. We are bringing in a regulation which solves a matter of many decades. And here I am very happy to be able to announce this today. We bring a regulation that brings to welfare, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Centre for Social Welfare of Attica a property, the "JUSPHAGLEIO", which is synonymous with the history of welfare policy in our country. He's bringing it into the Ministry's hands, without any price. It is a property that has a commercial value, which has been valued at present at EUR 27 million. It is a property that has been afflicting public services for seventy years, because it has never come to the public to this day. It is a property, which was awarded to Josephoglou in 1931, in 1952, granted to Welfare its use today, November 25, 2020, with the adoption of this provision, finally "JUNEFOLO" passes to the public. So we're very proud that after seventy years we've managed to bring in such a big real estate in public property and win our public property with such a real estate. Finally, I am very pleased that there have been no substantial disagreements on the provisions. The criticism focused on two axes. The only thing that focused on is that our provisions were mostly legislative and, therefore, it was not worth doing with them. I guess that's what it was said. However, it is not legal in nature. He's essential. There is, you say, a ministerial decision and, so why should we do it by law? Because there must be primary legislation which, for our own government, is an anchor. Primary legislation is an anchor. There must be authorization. They can't make ministerial decisions without permission. There must be specific powers and ministerial decisions must come out so that our services, public officials, when we invite them to implement something, can therefore do so. We're a citizen state. We're a state with public services. We are a state of responsibility. State with services and state with procedures. State consistently and consistently. Second review: Small number of beneficiaries. My Minister said so, and the Prime Minister said so. From Article 31 and the reduction of insurance contributions benefits one million nine hundred eighty-six thousand workers in our country. There are fewer, ninety - three thousand benefits. What is the measure for the most or at least? So tell us what the measure is for at least a little? For us, it is not a question of size, because it may have been a 'big one', but we are also a'small one'. I do not understand how the Party of Officers is responding to regulation in favour of the most vulnerable. You know, there are several schools on how to make social policy. We choose the following: We make social policy with a focus on maximising the benefit of the most vulnerable. The Government of New Democrat Republic shall bring into force measures applicable to the ‘Government of Justice’. We put the glasses in 2020, making the theory of Rolls act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, too, Mrs. Undersecretary. Could we now speak to Mrs. Auger from SYRIZA? To do a test, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u194	Can you hear me now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u195	We're listening. You have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to unite my voice, which is now heard, to incorporate it into this voice of empowerment of women who suffer violence, who are victims of domestic violence: Speak, don't be afraid, you're not alone! Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to you from Thessaloniki, the focus of the health war that the entire Greek society experiences throughout Greece. Already since the outbreak of the pandemic and its coming to our country all, everywhere in the world, talked about war. And it's a war. Anyone who has been in public hospitals, especially anyone who has been in hospitals in Thessaloniki, knows that well. Anyone who has spoken to doctors, who are forced to make choices to patients for the ICU, with nurses, with patients, with their relatives. He knows well who has this experience. The Thessaloniki Prefecture, ladies and gentlemen, is being tried hard. Every day it is accompanied by dozens of mortuaries and news of the death of our known people, including my own people. We'd expect what we're saying is war is to be conspiracy. We'd expect to be recruited by all those who are able to fight. We would expect the front to have secured the material and personnel needed to withstand the defensive lines. But these self-evident things that one would expect in a war, the government, which, from its standpoint, should lead this national effort, does not guarantee them. Unfortunately, here in Thessaloniki, instead of being recruited, we have a false order for individual small private clinics, which, according to the report, are also in bankruptcy. Only one clinic in substance has been ordered for CIVID-19 cases, which have not yet been to the clinic, and this clinic doesn't even have any staff and doctors. And not just that. They are being recruited, transported doctors, nursing staff and administrative staff from the hospitals of Thessaloniki to serve this clinic, which has been allegedly recruited. In other words, instead of ordering private clinics, the government is retiring, transporting doctors and nurses from public hospitals in Thessaloniki to do the job in private clinics. Yesterday, with a announcement by doctors and nurses of public hospitals in Thessaloniki, the cherry at the cake came! It has come, as has been reported, an oral order to move qualified public hospital doctors to a private hospital, which has not even been retired. In other words, the government's subordinate to private interests requires the State to serve private individuals. And if that is because of their inadequacy to fight on such a scale, then let me say that something is going wrong in the private sector. However, while, on the one hand, public hospitals have turned into hospitals of a disease - and this is particularly happening in Thessaloniki - the large private centers and clinics remain ‘stuffs’, just waiting to reap the profits of non-COVID patients who no longer fit into the ESS, because public hospitals have been converted into hospitals of a disease. We are still waiting for the answer from the Minister of Health to the question on the basis of what decision was taken by a private hospital, a clinic, at the premises of the "IPPROTEOU" General Hospital of Thessaloniki, namely, which is what work relationship and in what capacity the doctor-private hospital interrogator, who was not invaded, joined in the operation of a public hospital, in order to select patients from COVID, i.e. 'clean' incidents, in order for these incidents, the hot money they bring to the private clinic, to be intercepted in this private centre, having access to records and sensitive personal data of public hospital patients, to whose staff the doctor does not belong. Instead of a broad area of management and aid, a diligence, that is, logistics, staff shortages, staff recycling, improvisation and incomplete protocols, opacity and absence of a documented plan, based on the kindness of donors. Non-accounting, "excellent" democracy! Unfortunately, in this war, we are with a government which is governed by propaganda and communication, and I would say that it will do everything in its power. And I would like to stand, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on what the Minister said a little while ago, swinging the finger on SYRIZA. I will try to self-determination the Minister's reports: “Have you reduced unemployment because you have become a government? In order to reduce unemployment, the private sector must be strengthened. You did not strengthen the private sector. So how did you reduce unemployment? But these have been scientifically recorded.’ It is so scientifically what the Minister for Labour said, the scientific and politically correct it is what the other Minister, Mr Gerapitris, said the other day. And I transfer his report: "If we had five thousand IF, that would mean, in the normal time of things, that we would have a much larger number of dead." What scientific correspondence is what the ministers of the government have said with science, other so matched are the titles of the government's bills, which come in full correspondence with their content. As the Government has said about the upgrading of education, by legislating to strengthen private education, as it spoke about'second chance', by legislating on the bankruptcy of natural persons, so now the government is talking about strengthening vulnerable and unemployed people, effectively providing the neoliberal political example that makes them vulnerable and unemployed. You're reducing, you say, gentlemen of the Coupling, insurance contributions, and you're selling it - tiring anymore - fairy tale that this is how you lighten the citizens. On the one hand, for seven out of ten workers with a monthly income of up to EUR 1,000, the 'greedy' reduction in insurance contributions, what you say you do, means a reduction of EUR 3 to 14. A package of masks for people to take, your generosity has disappeared. On the other hand, for this indifferent reduction, you are risking the viability of the OAED, which is already in deficit, and it seems that you are looking at the fate of the OAED type, that no allowances are given, that the unemployed do not have protection, but that they depend entirely on market placements, which will control the adjustment of the supply of labour to demand, in the way we have seen in the unsuccessful Voucher training for professionals. This explains this only 1% increase in employment, which is provided for in the Pissaridis project, so that you can allegedly take unemployment from 17% last year to 7% in 2030 - I hope that we will be healthy, strong and strong until then - when SYRIZA has reduced unemployment by 10 percentage points in four years. So not all of this corresponds to reality. It's just a shape of speech on your part. Like the so-called support of the ESS by increasing the tests, the opening of so-called new ICMs, the Mitsotakis Government is communicating. She celebrates alone that it strengthens the weak and vulnerable and at the same time abolishes the social dividend and gives a Christmas present not on the wage...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u197	Mrs. Aegiris, can you please complete this?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u198	I will take care to finish in a minute, Madam President, if I may. Do I have time?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u199	Your time is seven minutes and you've already exceeded it. There are colleagues who have not spoken, and there are enough. I would ask you very much to complete this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u200	...Follows alone that it strengthens the weak and vulnerable and at the same time abolishes the social dividend and gives a gift of Christmas not on the wage, but on the allowance of 533 euros that was baptized "Octakosari". I shall conclude, Madam President, by saying that it is difficult and difficult to live in conditions of intervention by an MEP from Thessaloniki via the Internet in a plenary procedure. And it is true that the government only has a plan for communication. I would like to focus on something that is very important and to close with it. Last September, twenty-one SYRIZA MPs, accelerating Ms. Fotius, asked the Minister for expenditure overruns, waste and opacity in the Centre for Social Welfare of Central Macedonia, for the tens of thousands of euros that were destroyed, on the pretext of the coronary pandemic. The day before yesterday we heard about sixty cases in this centre and the press release - a response from the centre came through a private advertising company. Is that why the expenditure has gone away and has the Minister not even bothered to answer it? So that the administration of the centre can pay the advertising company and justify the unjustified, putting the blame on the workers' social lives? These are incredible things, unprecedented, unacceptable, a sign of a perception of power that runs all the client's structure that is supposedly the "final state", all the neoliberal system you go to set up, ladies and gentlemen of the government, taking what you can from many to give the few. Thank you, Madam President, for your patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u201	Thank you too, my colleague. I would like to give you more time indeed because you are in Thessaloniki and it is difficult to communicate. Unfortunately, however, none of our colleagues have spoken. Mrs Chapter of New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u202	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is not intended to communicate and it does not simply come to us to make any legislative improvements. It is yet another substantial bill in all its provisions, with only positive effects, with clear social significance, by introducing provisions, by launching direct and important procedures, with innovative regulations and major reforms. We restore existing injustices and provide relief in the midst of a health and economic crisis in all the social spheres. We apply the commitments and the pre-election agenda of the Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and we are now bringing the present draft law with both social and development status to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am starting with the arrangements for the protection of childhood. We invest in the physical safety of children, but also in their spiritual development. For the first time, we have established a regulatory framework for children's creative employment centres and centres for creative employment for children and people with disabilities. We review the framework for their establishment and operation. These centres are often treated as easy, profitable enterprises, based on the State grant, a way of operating that led to uncontrolled and unsympathetic practices, a distortion which was particularly strengthened by the SYRIZA government. Today we are introducing the basic conditions for licensing all these centres. We replace the existing unclear regime. We clearly define what services should be provided to children of school age. We thus ensure that all children enjoy the same services, regardless of where they live. We attach particular importance to the area of controls for their legal function, because they are structures hosting more than sixty thousand children every year, structures to which we give EUR 110,000 000 each year. For these reasons, we are aiming at a well-functioning framework for these structures. Secondly, we extend the minimum guaranteed income. Integration for the first time into this homeless and women victims of violence who live in hospitality. We are not reassured by the ongoing social reforms that we have brought within a year and a half of governance. The Government of New Democracy shows that it has reflexes and is coming and covering the needs of our vulnerable fellow citizens, who have been unprotected for years, our fellow citizens belonging to the most vulnerable social groups. Small budget costs, not a large social footprint. Thirdly, the housing allowance to cover rent costs will be given quickly and without suffering to more than a thousand five hundred uninsured elderly fellow citizens. We create a special electronic platform for the award of the allowance. We incorporate this allowance, by legislative means, into the Agency for Profit and Social Solidarity and promote the digital transformation of the Agency. We ensure that it is given in time, with the right criteria and everyone. Fourthly, we are extending the application for the very important birth allowance that we introduced early this year. Parents who did not have time to do so will now be able to receive the allowance. We cure any service errors and technical difficulties. The State introduced the allowance in order to get it for those who deserve it and who will receive it. Fifth, 'House and Work' programme. Ladies and gentlemen, we are providing for the immediate transition of homeless people to a leased residence and, at the same time, we guarantee them a job. We continue with improved movements in the first two successful homeless reintegration programs. We are subsidising the roof and its basic equipment. We provide psychosocial support services and, most importantly, reintegration services. We are introducing protective arrangements to draw up uninsured overtime, the social solidarity allowance for uninsured overtime, the monthly financial aid, the grant of homogenous refugees, and we call them inconsistent, even in cases of public or third debt. We seek and achieve more effective protection of vulnerable groups, economically weak and insecure elderly people and homogenous refugees, ensuring them minimum living resources. Also, until today, the families with a biological child with Down Syndrome or another member of the family with mental or physical disability could not even be candidates for adoption or assumption. In this bill, we've been correcting an injustice of decades. We allow families with biological children with disabilities to adopt or become fostering families. We are practically strengthening the institution of assumption and expanding the number of people who can adopt or become contractors. The government disguises the problems and corrects the bad texts for years. Seventh, reduction of insurance contributions, a regulation that is important, central, substantial, a structural change with immediate and visible effects on the private, business and the Greek household. A further election commitment by the New Democracy is thus implemented. In 2021, private sector contributions fall by 3.9 percentage points, which will be guaranteed by cutbacks in payments - contributions in favour of third parties. We are broadening the scope for recruitment. We are strengthening the competitiveness of our economy and giving oxygen to businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we are achieving sectors with a social impact. Once again we are trying to alleviate Greek society through the legislative process. We support practically the vulnerable social groups, the unemployed, the professionals, the Greek family. Inside pandemic we are trying to reform. We are making use of the resources available to us. We are bringing a bill with an extremely positive social figure, a bill corresponding to a social rule of law. We're at war with an invisible enemy, the coroner. The effects are now felt in society, the economy, health. The government, however, shows that it has its reflexes deepened. We're not leaving anything to luck. Society must remain - and it will remain - at this difficult time when we are all experiencing. With a plan, with a programme, with knowledge of the issues and awareness of the situation, we are here, present in this difficult struggle, making use of every means and every resource available. It is our duty to lead the country to the next day, to keep society together. The pandemic will be over, and our society will come out stronger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u203	Thank you too, my colleague. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Bukokoros, has the floor for just six minutes. Immediately after the speech, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, and then Mr. Kegeroglou from the Change Movement, will be given.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Allow me, through your face, since you are currently presided over, to address all Greek women and to say that the building of the necessary wall to protect women against violence, but also of all the groups of the population, is now a symbolic day. This construction of the wall begins by the laws that we are voting on and by the protection net that we extend, by voting on laws. I am pleased that today's bill contains such provisions. But let me go to the bill, although it was detailed both the Prime Minister who took part in today's bill and also catalysts of the evidence provided by the accelerating Minister of Labour, Mr Brutsi. But you will allow me to focus on the top, the flagrant provision of reducing insurance contributions, lowering non-wage costs by 3.9. First of all, some of our colleagues in the Confederal Group are asking: 'Is this reduction permanent?' It's budgeted. But we must all understand that we are operating in a temporary financial framework until the pandemic is finally dealt with. However, the legislative reductions at this time show the direction of the government's policy. It is not just a reduction in insurance contributions. After many years we have had a government that did not increase any of the existing taxes and introduced no new taxes. What is envisaged in an increase in tax revenue, as the Minister of Finance said earlier, is due to the growth that the economy will have in 2021 and I will also add to the collection. So let us go to this provision, 3.9 in the mid-term to non-wage costs. What is it and what does it mean? First of all, for the criticism of the Officerial Representation, "but instead of reducing the insurance contributions and jeopardising the resources of the OAED, why do you not institutionalise the EUR 751 as a minimum wage?" here, in order to invoke the phrase of the former Prime Minister, "the shame has lost its shame". Since 2015, the minimum wage at 751 euros has been in your program and in the Thessaloniki program. Four and a half years, why didn't you institutionalize it? Has the Government of New Democracy ever committed itself? The new Republic has committed itself to reducing taxes, reducing insurance contributions, improving by this way the working environment, so that new jobs can be created and wages can be increased. You're saying it's a small increase. Indeed, it is a small increase. On an annual basis, for each employee, the lowest wage can start from 150 euros and reach the high wages of 600 or 700 euros. It is, however, still a half-wage from this small reduction. Either way you see it, whether it's a small salary or a big salary, it's about half a wage. Do not see and read the numbers as you wish, that it is EUR 15 and 20 per month, because time has 12 months. And that's how we need to see it. But to ask another question, ladies and gentlemen of the Staff Regulations. Do you remember many employee branches over the last decade getting a nominal salary increase? Minimal! Only the hotel staff. [[Noise in the Chamber]] From that point on, if you see the data on SYRIZA, you will see that we have had a mid-weight reduction in your four-year, 3%, with OECD data. The average wage reduction was 3%. We therefore do not say that workers will be rich. We say they get an increase of this kind that can be recorded in their wages, and we say that we also make it easier for two hundred and sixty-five thousand businesses to stand and be able to hire some more workers. Because it may not be such a great deal of nominal cost, but the fear of burdens always makes businesses and, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises more sceptical. And if for a worker it is 260 euros a year, the profit for a business is 2,500 euros, which can represent its municipal fees, its HOPIA and a thousand two other fixed costs. You say we weaken the OAED and jeopardise its role. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] What government weakens the OAED? Will the government which extended unemployment benefits and extend them for as long as necessary for beneficiaries of the branches affected by the pandemic? What government weakens the OAED? The one who introduced an exceptional allowance for a hundred thousand long-term unemployed? It is a hundred and thirty - thousand unemployed who receive allowances and a hundred thousand who are long -term unemployed who will receive an exceptional allowance of seventy - seventy thousand. Four thousand who receive the minimum guaranteed income, which is now constitutionally guaranteed, will receive a double allowance. Soon ago the Minister of Finance came here and said we double the heating allowance. For all forms of heating, the philosophical government of SYRIZA gave annually close to 50 million euros. I would remind you that this allowance had been initiated by the former Government of New Democracy with EUR 250 million. He was giving 50 million. And the New Democracy Government is coming to do it 95 million and to support disadvantaged and mountainous areas, which are in other forms of fuel such as firewood, pelt, etc. Let's see who makes a pro-active policy, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? One look at the budget would show you that the OPEKA budget, where the total of the allowances for 2021 are allocated, is EUR 4 billion. 2020 was 3 billion 600 million and 2019 was 3 billion. This means that 600 million more will be given in 2021 for allowances. How do you read the numbers? As you wish? I do not want to talk about other issues. You told us why we are strengthening an airline that is a national air carrier and why it has not taken the state's shares for 120 million, which will support a company that has announced an investment programme of EUR 5 billion for the next five years. We are now supporting this operation, so that we do not go to European destinations, as we are going to the transatlantic with TURKISH. We should go with a Greek company. We are now supporting it in order to be able to implement its investment programme from which the state, through increased employment and taxes, will gain much more than 120 million. That's our ideological difference. It's there, if you like, our different policy. You think we'll get the shares, just like the German State took. Do you know how much the German State gave the airlines? Rightly if he took some shares. Seventeen billion euros. Not 120 million. Are you telling me what percentages you get from a company that has already announced an investment programme of EUR 5 billion to EUR 120 million? And what role will these percentages play? We therefore support companies that play a national role. I conclude, Madam President, by saying that others have the name and others have the grace. Of course, today's Civic Opposition is the role of Father, the role of protector of the weak. But the current government is making a targeted policy, which is reflected in the numbers of growth, in the numbers of those who benefit and, above all, makes social policy for the whole range of workers at a difficult time. What does that mean? What's the conclusion? When there is a government that is at such a difficult time, leaving cash available untouched, fueling them with cheap lending, because it has built credibility, a government that can make such policies at this time, that is, lowering taxes and insurance contributions and a protection net to the most vulnerable in society, think about how much these policies will multiply! We are close to each Greek, close to every Greek woman, especially to those who need such policies, but we do not ignore the entire social body and the entire economy that will create the necessary care to make these policies, because they cannot always be done with borrowers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, and immediately thereafter Mr Kegeroglou from the Change Movement. Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Madam President. Let me briefly refer to the World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. As a party, we are at the forefront of the fight against all forms of violence against women, which intensifies their inequality and puts a barrier to the fulfilment of their current needs. But the selective projection of some just forms of violence, illuminating a tree is trying to cover up the forest. The forest of multiformal violence against women of labor. Those who spoke only about domestic violence. Of course, violence against women and the pandemic period, but also before, not only in physical violence, is not limited to verbal violence or sexual abuse within the family or between interpersonal relations. Violence, for example, is also the crack of family, personal life. Violence is the lack of measures to protect health and life. Violence is the cracking of labour rights, it's the cracking of motherhood. That is why we call for measures to support unemployed women, women from single parents and multiple families. Permanent and stable work, with decent wages, with guaranteed collective labour contracts, with full employment and insurance rights, so that women can stand with dignity on their feet and take their lives in their hands. Unemployment benefit without conditions and conditions. Financing from the State budget for the operation of state social services and infrastructure to prevent violence against women and to support abused women, through their direct and full-time staff with permanent and stable work, without any involvement of the various NGOs and the COMPs. Let's come to the bill, Madam President. I would say to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative who spoke before me, if he is so interested in the wage path and wants to raise the wages of workers, why does he not call on the current Minister of Labour to take back the 2012 decision, which reduced the minimum wage, which abolished the sectoral and collective agreements? That's what your government is doing. Restore what was in place before 2012. We're not asking for any more. Are you doing this? This is Rhodes, to see how sensitive you are to wage issues! The Minister also mentioned this, saying that the reduction of these insurance contributions would be in the interests of the workers. Really, Minister, how much do you want to drive us crazy? I'm so sorry. Isn't it a reduction in the total gross wage of workers? Doesn't it lead to a reduction in the gross wage? What raise is it? One of the prisoners. Secondly, does it not mean reducing resources for the OAED, which should support the needs of the workers as a whole? So you are reducing whatever interventions the OAED could make to support the needs of the workers. Who is the good guy after the workers are lost? Businesses, business groups and even very large ones are beneficial. After all, it is no accident that the BSE demand is a reduction in the so-called 'non-wage cost'. Why does BSE demand this? Because this will shield the competitiveness and profitability of business groups. That is why in the JRC we stress that it is the router of the competitiveness of business groups that breaks the rights and the life of the working class. Not only, of course, in the working class, but also in the professionals, traders, self-employed and craftsmen, because the process of concentration of economic activity has accelerated in a handful of large monopolies, tossing them violently from economic activity as well. The Minister in his speech claimed that this reduction in contributions to the incomes of the insurance system had no effect. This measure has no impact, Minister. Because it is well known that you are preparing us other things for the aftermath. You are opening the way to lower insurance contributions to the insurance funds. The Pissaridis report is already revealing. What does the Pissaridis report say? Reduction, he says, for the companies of weight by wage earners. It is a burden for the worker for the company, so his weight must be reduced. And what's he talking about? It is talking about reducing workers' insurance contributions, for example, through a fixed amount of health contributions for all workers. So here's what the Pissaridis report says. And it is not just the Pissaridis report. He said so today and the Prime Minister in his speech. What did the Prime Minister say? That a reduction in the so-called 'non-wage cost' - that is, what workers have worked, is at their gross wages and concerns their insurance - is a burden for businesses and must be brought to bear. And we are not reducing, he says, only the burden, we are reducing the tax burden, in order to shield the competitiveness of business groups. So the next step the government will take is an even greater reduction in insurance contributions for insurance funds. So this will mean that workers should put even deeper hands in their pockets to have health benefits. This means that they have to work for many more years to get a pension, or that pensions will be reduced even further, turning it into a privileged allowance. But really, from this controversy that we have seen today between the Prime Minister and the Chief of Police Vice-Population, can we draw any conclusions? I have the opinion that we should review what we said about the convenient opposition and talk about the associated opposition. Such a conspiracy between Officer Response with the government is unprecedented. The issues of the strategic agreement between the government and SYRIZA are revealed. So this partnership is confirmed by the logic, which Mr Tsipras himself pointed out should reduce the non-wage costs. We agree. But, he says, this should not be at the expense of the OAS, it should be at the expense of the state budget. Not Yannis, but Yannakis. In other words, workers in the form of taxpayers will pay for it because it will be at the expense of taxpayers when this money goes to the benefit of business groups. Taxables are the workers. The thing is, what pocket are the money going to leave? And that's a fake feud. What do you want? To reduce the revenues of the OAED or to increase your taxation? One of the prisoners. Secondly, there seems to be an agreement between the Government and Civic Opposition to support monopolies. What did Mr. Tsipras say? To support, says, 'Aegean', but let at least secure jobs or take shares in the public sector. Is it like the shares taken by the public by the banks and the recapitalisation, which gave the public about 40 billion to recapitalise the banks and today all this has become a leaf and feather and just the only remaining 40 billion left is the debt burden that the workers and the wide-ranging populaces will have to pay? Also, at another point there is a matching and complicity. What's that? In the need to manage poverty through the various benefits. ‘The beneficiaries of the minimum’. Are you clinging to what? To the very least, which means that the people, the wide folk layers, must compress their needs, compress their demands and get at the minimum. Really, this poverty has fallen from heaven? Are they not responsible for the problems faced by the wide folk family, the poorer and impoverished populace? Who's responsible? We call it clear. It is the result of the capitalist crisis and capitalist development. Your development gives rise to poverty, impoverishment, because it accumulates wealth in less and less hands. That is why - not by accident - you have drafted, that is, you put the issue of minimum guaranteed income into the Constitution, because you know very well that in the next few decades, if the working class and the people do not get the case in hands and power, we will continue to live with extensive poverty in our country and elsewhere, it is not only in Greece. Everywhere this issue of minimum guaranteed income has been constitutionalised. So the development of capitalism gives rise to the poor and, at the same time, to management policies, to anti-grass policies. And it's like saying to the world "to burn you, Giannis, to grind you oil", that is, to create these conditions of the unbearable way of living and at the same time make yourselves comfortable with a small allowance. But even more important, in the view of the JRC, is that the logic of the minimum, the adjustment of the state's social costs is the result of the overthrows of the power correlations at the expense of the working class and the overthrows of socialism thirty years ago. What do we have in all the capitalist world ever since? Reduction of State expenditure on social expenditure and adjustment of their character. "Attempted to be", he says, "to those most in need of these costs must go," he says. The Minister said so: "We are targeted to support the weakest, most vulnerable." What does that mean? Redistribution of poverty. The less poor pays for the poorest. It means a shrinking of social costs for education, health, welfare and at the same time its supply. That's how the road to marketing health, education, welfare, after that was opened. Why? Because all of you, all of you, all of you parties, have accepted the logic of individual choice, namely that it is an option for everyone to go to a public or private hospital, that it is an option for everyone to send their child to a public or private school. This, however, is increasing the class barriers even further, degrading the public health system, the public education system, because only in a degraded public health system can private sector develop. It's shrinking. That's why it's no coincidence that all governments booked hospitals. PASOK and New Democracy closed the infectious hospitals. SYRIZA's chest hospitals. They've left the health system in terrible employment relationships. Mr Loverdos, I would say that history will write that the PASOK government did not incorporate its sanitary sector into heavy and unhealthy, with the footnote by Mr Loverdos that he disagreed with this choice of the PASOK government. Because many people made footnotes. This counts, and since then all governments have refused to really incorporate the sanitary into heavy and unhealthy. And integration into heavy and unhealthy does not just mean a wage support. It's a lot of things together. What does it mean? Reduction in working time, reduction in working life, means better working conditions, work protection, hygiene and insurance measures and, of course, remuneration. We are making this proposal as a JRC. Overall support for this issue and highlight heavy and unhealthy for health. And I shall conclude, Madam President. That is why all parties are talking today about the management of the pandemic, about the monkey order, in other words, of the private sector. In other words, the Government with private entrepreneurs is entering a bazaar on how they will be compensated for any provision of health units they have, while the actual order means without compensation. That's it. But no one else dares to say it. We say this as a JRC, because we say that the private health sector must be abolished. And finally, the JRC, Madam President, free from this logic of'subsidy', calls for amendments which, today, have tabled the restoration of the losses suffered by workers, pensioners, disabled people, single parent families. That is why our amendments are not just an allowance. We call for the restoration, for example, of the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions for all pensioners and also for workers in the public sector. We call for the unemployed to be subsidised for the duration of unemployment to 80% of the minimum wage, which we say should go to 751 euros. There are also a number of other proposals that the JRC has put forward, because we know very well that in today's circumstances, if you do not conflict with this policy - and those who are responsible - which gives rise to poverty and impoverishment, you cannot pave the way for hope. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u207	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Mitsotakis and Tsipras, you're right today. None of you belong to paternity, but neither does the motherhood of the social state. About the S.O.S. Line. '15900', to deal with the abuse of women, for whom you have provoked, I make the two decisions. It's a PASOK project. The first decision is 2011 and the second decision for its full operation is June 2012. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Mitsotakis and Mr. Tsipras, why didn't you come to an interest in another PASOK project, the PASS? Obviously because Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis have abolished it. The social policy in Greece and the progress made in post-policy has the seal of PASOK. Start date 18 October 1981. All Greek citizens know that. Only here, Mr. Mitsotakis and Mr. Tsipras ignore it. PASOK has for the first time linked economic development to social policy and the needs of people and society: National Health System, National System of Social Protection and Care, Family Policies, Child, Elderly, Disabled Persons, KAPI, CIDAP of Disabled Children, CYKEKEMEA, “Help to Home”, EASA, Social Care Times Passengers, Social Structures in Self-Government to Combat Poverty and Support Weaknesses, Harmonization of Occupational and Family Life, Children and Nursing Stations, Response of Domestic Violence, Social Welfare Centres. All these difficult times of the crisis have played a decisive role in supporting the weak. The balance sheet is absolutely positive. On the initiative of PASOK 2012-2014 with our work and my signature. For the first time I say 'My', because I have heard what I have heard here today. National strategy on social inclusion and cohesion, December 2014. [[At this point the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above study, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Support scheme for the self-help education and social care of disabled people under the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities ratified by Parliament with No. 4074/2012. Supported housings and a daily hospital - school for disabled people and their operation. To deal with the extreme poverty and the reintegration of people who experience it was first created in Greece, the institution of the minimum guaranteed income as a guaranteed social income. I am making the ministerial decision to create the guaranteed income in Greece for the first time. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned Ministerial Decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The pilot project implemented for thirteen municipalities since November 2014 was assessed and its universal implementation was planned for July 2015. The SYRIZA government, which emerged from the January elections, in accordance with its programme statements, considered it a trap of poverty and postponed it until it was imposed by the European Commission two years later. A good thing is the doubling of the guaranteed income today for December, but the same must apply to disability benefits, to double for that month. Of course, there needs to be an assessment and an increase, according to the new data, of the financial support for the guaranteed and, finally, functioning of the pillar of labour reintegration. We created the Fund for the Most deprived with 330 million in the EMCDDA Fund on December 23, 2014. For the homeless we have created dayclubs and social guesthouses. I'm making the ministerial decisions. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned Ministerial Decisions, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All this is only with my signature, I say it again. ‘Housing and reintegration’. A pioneering pilot project that really changed Athens' image. We have seen for a considerable time that the homeless, not only, but also work, because the programme was housing and reintegration. I am tabling the consultation, the Housing and Reintegration programme, the programme itself, and of course its implementation guide. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The pilot project had a funding of 10 million. Today, what the government is legislating with an article has 5 million. Legislative arrangements are good, but assess, upgrade the programmes and put the necessary resources in place. In addition, you are dramatically limiting the possibilities of the previous programme. The problem of constellation will be exacerbated in the next period, due to its pandemic and its effects, but also because of the auctions you are preparing. The Change Movement has tabled an amendment for the suspension of auctions and the suspension of application of those provisions of bankruptcy law leading to the loss of first residence. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has come globally to remind us that policies must have priority for humans, their health and their environment. Unfortunately, this is done with millions of deaths. We social democrats, in addition to this bitter justice, also feel the burden of responsibility to act as a stepping-up to policies leading to anthropocentric progress. So today it is important to protect from the pandemic, support and regeneration of the National Health System, for which we have tabled a comprehensive proposal for ICES, MIDs, staffing, renewing technology equipment. At the same time, a coherent plan is needed to address economic and social impacts. Unfortunately, we find that, although there is not an excess, but adequacy of resources and support from the European Union, there is a lack of policy but also sometimes a lack of seriousness and responsibility from people in serious and responsible positions. Today, in the bill we are discussing, we have tabled an amendment for the inclusion under L.3863/2010, for the intransigent, heavy and unhealthy health care of the workers of the medical, nursing and other personnel of the health services of the HSH, the social welfare facilities, military hospitals, all the units of the Armed Forces, EKAV, the structures of self-government, the "Help to Home" and, at the same time, the payment of a Christmas gift to all people in the first line, political staff and even orders, i.e. all those I mentioned. Instead of making this political decision and at the same time supporting all other structures, selectively goes on to certain regulations which are of a positive nature, but which do not meet the real needs. Instead of strengthening the CSR and CSR - ASE, as their positive assessment requires, as demanded by self-government, workers and, above all, parents - I submit documents - Articles 1, 2 and 3 of the draft law shrink the institution of the creative employment of children, lead to the unemployment of high-trained workers and leave children out of support for about 100 thousand families. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are clear across and call on the Government, we call on the Minister present, at least at the last minute, to remove the limitations and exceptionally the KHS provided for, of the Ministers for Labour and Education, to be issued with the agreement of the CEDEFOP, since the municipalities are the only legal owners of the school buildings and we decide without them. We are not opposed at some point by reducing the burden on workers and businesses from the positions of the government. However, we must ensure that benefits are not reduced and that does not exist in the bill. There is the provision in part of the government budget of part of the OAED's benefits, but there is no insurance policy that the OAED budget will be linked to the state budget and at least what is provided so far. You need to clarify your position. The gray zones today, in the difficult conditions experienced by society and the whole country, are not appropriate. In relation to the bill, George Mulkiotis was put in more detail, with great adequacy, and I think it is clear that he contains some positive provisions, but does not respond to all the problems that each family is experiencing today and especially the weak families, those of the low economic strata. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u209	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just been informed that some time ago women were arrested, who had called for action because of the day's celebration, and they have been brought to the Police Department of the Constitution. I say this because some time ago, all of us - and the Members and the heads of the parties - were also mentioned and wished against the violence of women and I would ask the parties' leaders to deal with this and to end here. I'll be taken as soon as I'm done with my seat. Mr Varzopoulou from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u210	Good evening to the Minister and the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be absolutely concise in terms of the work and insurance part of this bill, precisely because it is self-proof and self-evident, not only in terms of relief in the pandemic and the preservation of existing jobs, but above all in terms of the development sign which it proposes and which, immediately after the lot, will create new jobs and will help substantially relaunch economic activity. Therefore, let me just say that it is very important and very characteristic and very symbolic of the Prime Minister's decision to double the minimum guaranteed income in the face of the pandemic now in December. Watch out. Beyond any other utility, it really demonstrates the importance, severity and social usefulness of this tool. It is a tool that we introduced in 2014 -- then with a technical advisor to the World Bank and with the Minister of State, Mr Brutsis and Minister of State, we should stress it, the previous Vassilis Kegeroglou - so that we can keep up with the entire civilized world, as far as the tools one uses to ease social differences are concerned. It is something that was fully adopted, as Mr Tsipras said earlier, by the SYRIZA Government, thus proving the correctness of our decision and our actions. Let me now address with more detail the very important and innovative issues raised by today's Social Policy Legislation. Creative employment centres for children and people with disabilities are an old institution of twenty years and very useful. However, the time has come, of course, for there to be concrete modernisation and, of course, substantial improvement in their terms and conditions of authorisation and operation. This, of course, will be done in a short time for all the other bodies providing similar services, such as the two-day and day-care JEPs, such as social centres, such as day-to-day care units for elderly people, shelters, long-term institutions, elderly people's care units. All these are bodies that provide services. It is therefore intended to know which body provides which services, to whom and why. The purpose of this whole effort will be at the end to specialise services so that we can offer specific services to specific diagnostic target groups, i.e. specific services in autistic spectrum, specific services in mixed motor disorders, specific services in mental delay, etc. However, in order to do all this, ladies and gentlemen, we need other elements, we need quantitative information, we need to know who is suffering from what and under what conditions. In other words, we need a full and developed and deep wheelchair map. It is, of course, all aware of a work that is difficult, a work scientifically and privately unbearable, a work very expensive. But we now have enough financial instruments. I am referring, for example, to what we discussed the other day in the Committee on European Affairs with the competent European Commissioner, the 'Europe for Health 2020-2027' programme, a budget of 10 billion. It could be a good source of funding. What is of course important is that, having these quantitative elements, we will be able to do two things reasonably and effectively. Firstly, we need to know why we are licensed and what structure, to provide what and to whom and, secondly, to have concrete information so that we can cost these services rationally and finally go to all of them to a single funding body, which, in my view, cannot be anyone other than the EEA. Let me now refer to a very important programme, the 'House and Work for the Homeless' programme. It is a programme that we are introducing, we are using, but we must stress that it is a programme that has historically contributed the hairs of the present, the former Undersecretary, Vassilis Kegeroglou. Watch out. The pillars of this programme are: firstly, the provision of liquidity; secondly, a series of supportive social services; and thirdly, the connection with the labour market and possibly retraining or vocational guidance. The aim is that these pillars form the depth and width of a new concept, the concept of guaranteed, safe and decent living. It is a concept which will include minimum guaranteed income as minimum liquidity and minimum purchasing power, secondly, housing, thirdly, promotional insurance, fourthly, series of services - such as medical, pedagogical, administrative and, of course, labour market connections. In this way we are creating a different future, a different qualitative approach to the concept of equalising social inequalities. And it is good, Minister, to bear in mind that there is absolutely no reason now to have movable property criteria and criteria in terms of providing all these privileges and minimum guaranteed income, because we have passed the very right law on the second chance and individual bankruptcy, where all of this falls. I come to the last point, which I think is the most innovative of this bill. It is the question of providing contact with those in need, with the disabled, in this regard. Look, we need to know that the services that we need are active search and contacting the citizens in need. These services here are the only ones that can really offer hand help, because, of course, electronic media, electronic platforms, but they are not accessible to the whole population. We know that even in Central Europe there are large parts of the population that, for reasons of economics, accommodations, educationals, medicals, ages, cannot understand the full range of public services and, of course, use them. So we need services, I repeat, active search. Here's the bill. It's innovating. The mandate given to OPEKA to interconnect with the Community centres is the one which creates the first foundation for the creation of the first Greek common social service. OPEKA now undertakes to describe both the forms of work and the jobs in all the social services of local government bodies. We must, however, give him yet another opportunity, Mr President, to define the organograms as well. We must also cooperate with the Ministry of the Interior as well. The Social Policy Departments at the present time have to be addressed, the Sections of "Help at Home" should have legal persons and join them. Community centres, which currently operate within the ESDP, should become permanent structures of local government bodies. I would also say that the multitude of agencies for the service and assistance of borrowers are now in existence. Ladies and gentlemen, we really need to understand that today is a historic moment. The first social single service is indeed created in the history of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u211	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr. Villardos, the Greek Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for six minutes and immediately after Mr. Vardakis from SYRIZA. Mr. Villard, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Madam President. I'll take my tritology, like I told you. Ladies and gentlemen, because the aim of counter-population must be constructive and not denounced, the two positive points of the debate that preceded the Prime Minister's side are the continuous recommendation to respect the measures against pandemic in all Greeks, while economics should not be mentioned. On the part of the President of SYRIZA, support for business for the payment of the Christmas gift is certainly essential to the situation in which they have been led. For the other measures he has mentioned, it is really annoying to be auctioned without any mention of how much they cost, especially for a bankrupt state with empty funds. ‘Maxilari’ does not exist. This myth must be stopped. The funds of the country are empty. As we have seen many times, the government does not understand the difference between its neoliberal policy, destroying our country's middle-class and our liberal central, socially-based, apparently completely ignoring the two basic theories of the free market, neoclassical and post-cynamic. In particular, the main proposals of the neoclassical policy it implements, that is, the reduction or retention of wages and pensions under the productivity of workers, flexible work without collective agreements, the reduction of public spending and the social state, as well as the privatisation of all state-owned enterprises, the policy of memoranda, namely, which it has signed and stated publicly that it believes. On the other hand, the main proposals of post-Keynian theory, which Portugal successfully implemented in 2015, by abolishing the memoranda, of the real liberal, are the slow but stable increase in wages, along with the rise in the productivity of workers, stable labour contracts, the borrowing only for productive investment, so that private, the maintenance of the social state and the avoidance of privatizations - which do not help the economy under any circumstances - of public-private and strategic enterprises. Our difference, of course, is not only the above, namely the difference between the government and the Greek Solution, since we also believe in supporting the middle-class together with the lowest and balanced redistribution of incomes and, furthermore, in limiting globalisation, which causes multiple migratory problems, while reducing our standard of living, since it exposes us to competition with very low-cost countries such as China, but also with low-cost workers, in the national state, that is to say, home, rather than ethnicism, in the production of wealth, and not in subsidies policy, as well as in many others that we mention in our programme in detail. Obviously, too, in the intervention of the public in the economy in periods of deep recession, since everyone knows that, if the state is not ahead, individuals never follow, taking risks in which they are unable to cope. But after the recession is over, the state must stop interfering. Even more, he has to leave, selling everything that is not his job to work. The bill to some extent promotes the mandates of institutions, the troika, i.e., with its new name, as recorded in the eighth evaluation. In particular, social care, as perceived by the neoliberal troika, which essentially governs us, on page 45 of the evaluation, consists of the concept of minimum guaranteed income, consisting of the following three pillars: Firstly, the benefits covered in the first part of the bill, by extending the definition of the homeless. Secondly, the provision of social care services. The present draft law is housing allowances and possibly the granting of houses under Article 62. And thirdly, since the reintegration into the labour market, as you think it is achieved in the bill by reducing contributions to Article 31. So since the troika has made the Greeks fatal, it wants to convince them that it is interested in their survival, when it at the same time characterizes on page 53 of the review as an important step forward in bankruptcy law - abortion. It supplements, of course, the need to strengthen the procedures so that all cases can be cleared by the end of April 2022, by submitting documents on 15 September 2021, by hearings at the end of October of the same year and by making decisions within a mandatory six-month period. In simple terms, after confiscating and auctioning the houses of the Greeks, by the procedure, of course, of the urgency, with the borrowers homeless and unemployed, it will ensure that they do not die by subsidising their subsistence costs. For example, the grant of the long-term unemployed with the first instalment of measures in April, where of the four hundred eighty thousand long-term unemployed the government said it would support EUR 400 a hundred sixty - eight thousand. In the end, of course, only a hundred and seventeen thousand were subsidised because there were not enough bank accounts, obviously due to debts. Now he said he would support another hundred and thirty thousand, but with the exception of the previous ones, leaving the rest without any help, that is, over two hundred and thirty thousand Greeks. Its cost will be about 100 million in total, when for the management of migratory flows it spent in 2020 in the 605 million euro budget, which, if it gave allowances to all Greeks, would take each one of EUR 1,100. If it considers this a liberal and social measure, then it has completely lost the account, as in general health, the economy and the nationalities, leading Greece from evil to worse and today. Continuing, another measure of this bill is the reduction of insurance contributions, assuming that both the troika and the government believe that new jobs will be created in this way. How, in fact, will the creation of new jobs, when most companies are at the limit of bankruptcy, among other things, because of the constant lockdowns? When are the hopes of bringing tourism back to life in 2021, as the troika re-emerges in the eighth evaluation? When small and medium-sized enterprises are not financed, since half of the billions of the banks borrowed were six large companies? When the majority of the money that was injected into the banks by the Eurosystem, about EUR 30 billion, was absorbed by the State, whether by selling bonds or lump sum notes? When the European Union in the eighth assessment predicts a growth rate of 2.2% in our country for the period 2023-2060, with our GDP in 2040 being below GDP in 2009, as we will be tabling in the Minutes? When our public debt in 2040 will be until 2009, which we drove to the IMF, 120% of GDP, despite the fact that we will have sold out everything? Isn't it a shame to inherit our children such chaos? How long will we be maintained with allowances and vouches, as in Article 66 of today's bill? I would like to refer to the occasional work and the disposal of homes by the former Labour House Agency, which was abolished by the same government in 2012, but time does not allow for it. However, I must stress that Greece is a rich, multi-dimensional country, with a unique culture in history and with extremely competent people and can succeed. But not with this incredible mismanagement by all its governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u213	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. He has asked for the floor, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, to make a small position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u214	Madam President, I too would like to speak. He made a reference to me, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, and I want it for that reason. It's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u215	I didn't touch him either, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u216	I'll give you after the speech. Here you go, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u217	I would like to refer to the information we have on arrests of nine or ten women, who have made an oath in the Constitution Square, on the occasion of the world day against the violence of women. Not to say any other expressions, it is at least hypocrisy on the part of the government to stand against the violence of women and at the same time to proceed to arrest nine women, who, because of the day, make this particular devotion and action in the Constitution Square. That is why, as a JRC, we demand their immediate release, without conditions and conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I also made this report beforehand and said that the parties' leaders should also be seized to end this issue here. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Madam President. I'm going to make an observation on health grounds. You have said - and you said so at the Conference - that when we talk underneath and not from there we will wear masks. This concerns the Prime Minister. It's not just about us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u220	I imagine it's about everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u221	Mr. Minister met this morning. I, too, agreed before the Minister, because I thought that if I took a distance inside the Chamber, I could speak. Oh, no. You said every one who talks out of bed would speak with a mask. But apply it. Because I can take her off the mask too, and I don't care that she has workers here. It made me a really bad impression. There are no double standards in this area. The first is that. But I did not ask for the floor for that. I have asked for the floor, because I have listened to Mr Karathanasopoulos, a parliamentary representative of the Communist Party, who spoke about heavy and unhealthy, for whom we tabled a seventh amendment today, in order to incorporate the nurses of the public hospitals into the heavy and unhealthy ones. Mr Karathanasopoulos, therefore, reverted and spoke about the responsibilities of the Finance Ministers of all governments - and of ours and of the New Democracy together with us and the New Democracy now alone and of SYRIZA - and said that "and the PASOK did this, he did not include, with a footnote that Mr Loverdos disagreed." It's not like that. I, as Minister of Labour, have incorporated them into the private sector, Madam President. I incorporated them! So, my dear colleague, I did not just make a footnote that 'I disagree'. He could say that every minister could say that. I had a sample of writing, I had a certain sample of writing where I was only responsible. I did it, it passed, and it's true.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u222	I said about the public sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u223	So it is legitimate for anyone who has something on his own. The ones they've ruled, I mean. Of those who have not ruled, people are obviously legalized to say what they think is best. Therefore, as far as I am concerned, I provide this clarification to avoid misunderstandings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I shall convey your remarks to the Conference of Presidents and the relevant comments will be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u225	Madam President, I would like to put forward a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u226	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u227	I'm filing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Vardakis, you have the floor for seven minutes. I'm gonna beg you to look at the clock, because, from what I've been told, you don't listen to the warning bell and we're going over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u229	Madam President, allow me only one word for today. Of course, we identify ourselves with the proposal you have made earlier on the incident that happened in the Constitution. We are all at the forefront of eliminating violence against women. It is a question of democracy and it is about everyone and everyone. Madam President, let me say that, if this bill is emblematic, as the Prime Minister said, I imagine what awaits us with the next bill. I want to tell you what I learned a moment ago. Fifty corporations of focus from all over Greece are protesting because they are cut off by electricity in the middle of a pandemic and in closed operations. That's how the government supports the small and medium-sized ones! It is provocative, Madam President, that such a bill should be entitled to the barbaric title which speaks of measures to support workers, vulnerable social groups and the unemployed. Nor do you support the vulnerable social groups, nor do you support the unemployed. I've said it before. You have no sense of reality, gentlemen of the government. You have not understood the scope of the problem. Legislation to legislate. You do not take into account the effects of the health crisis on vulnerable groups, households, the unemployed or the real needs of society. With drum impacts you claim to reduce employers' and workers' contributions. You will not help workers or businesses in this way, since all the workers will see an increase in their wages from EUR 2 to EUR 14. This is the maximum mockery, while you could support workers with a further increase in the minimum wage, which you frozen both in 2020 and in 2021. On the other hand, I wonder if it is ever possible for the New Democracy to make a three hundred-degree turn to its beliefs. Why not forget that you were in favour of reducing wage costs, arguing that this would create a potential for competitiveness and growth. The results you saw: Full failure! So you repeat the same mistakes. On the contrary, with all that you are suggesting today that they support society, the fragile society now, you are firing out social policy, as this reduction in social security contributions corresponds to a horrendous reduction in GDP resources, with the benefits and employment programmes being at risk to the fullest and at a time of great difficulty for the unemployed in the country, who are constantly growing, as are the long-term unemployed, who also need significant support for you. You have set yourself up to dismantle the only public utility organisation, the OAED, as well as the OAED, the body that has been an institution for the country and has contributed to the protection of the world of work over time. You have managed by legislative arrangements, and before and now, to turn it into an interoperable mechanism. And all of this at a time when it is crucial for work, for the protection of workers. You are creating, ladies and gentlemen, the prospect of insecurity and labour jungle in Greek society. You are talking about direct electronic pension award and one-off. These are communication games, I say, while you are not facing the real cause of delay, which is the lack of full digital recording of each worker's working life. The figures and figures, unfortunately, speak for themselves. The launching of pensions and a single one today, on the basis of the new figures, not of SYRIZA, but of the European Commission, touch the three hundred thousand. It's a fiscal bomb, the Commission tells you, and it doesn't sweat your ears. Unfortunately, the impoverishment of Greek society is now a reality. Insecurely workers, unemployed, SMEs, free professionals, self-employed, farmers, are invited to survive without substantial support from the government. Ladies and gentlemen, the treaties have changed. Everyone's life has changed. They're kneeling in hospitals. Mr. Mitsotakis, there's nothing wrong with the unaltered ones. Obviously, you have been informed of your speech and your statements to the House on 12 November, and you have just confirmed today that your opinions, obviously, and Mr Gerapetiti. Well done! Repeat the date of November 12th. Ladies and gentlemen, workers are kneeling in health. Television is carried out with a huge failure. We see regions sharing computers, laptops with children. You have excluded 50% of students from teleworking. Look at that. May I say that some positive provisions exist in the bill? Let me say it. Let me say that you describe the provisions that we've legislated and relegated? Let me say it. May I say that the work and legislative interventions at this level of the bill, SYRIZA and our current rapporteur, Mrs Fotio, leave no misunderstandings? Let me say it. But it is unacceptable that those who went bankrupt and went bankrupt once again today in Greek society. We have listened with a great deal of irony to the majority rapporteur talking about tears and supposed sensitivity on the part of SYRIZA. Listen, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. No matter how many social cloaks you wear, the past and the present strip you. You're the ones who dissolved public health. The greatest success was for them to reach 28% of unemployment. You are the ones who have reached the minimum wage for legislating the gruesome underpaid wage. You remember them, Mr. Brutsi. I don't think you're forgetting them. I do not believe that you will ever imply that SYRIZA has closed down the OSCE and the Labour House and that hundreds of millions of reserves of the two organizations! No one yet knows what happened to that money! Ten times your rapporteur has spoken of hot money coming from - he says - from a reduction in insurance contributions. The industrialists and bankers are avataring, which will benefit millions of euros, of course, at the expense of the OAED and the unemployed, from the reduction in insurance contributions. If you really cared about the workers, you wouldn't freeze the minimum wage. Are you the ones who, with disgusted enthusiasm, are trying to bring in the next hundred years, after a hundred years, the abolition of the eighth and you're talking to us about a social state? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, forgive me for the tone, but I cannot swallow some things. The new Republic's rapporteur spoke of an arsenal of the government the other day. In this he's absolutely right. Indeed, the government has developed a powerful arsenal, with a massive cynicism and an anti-workers, pensioners, Greek society. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Mr Mitsotakis, Minister, it will really prove today who shed crocodile tears. Behold, the field of glorious glory! You accept the amendments, all the parties, which have been tabled and which give a genuine breath to society. Otherwise, once again, you will prove to be the most arrogant government in the last forty years. And I would like to say one last thing - let me, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance - to Mrs Michaelidou. Forget the thought of flying out of the school buildings of the municipalities. Unless you want to close the network of CCPs - AIAs of the municipalities. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr. Bardakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u231	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u232	I'll give you the floor, Minister. We talked about women. You have forgotten, however, that today we also have the Katerinas here, which celebrate, like Mrs Papanatsiou, Mrs Papacostas, Mrs Notopoulou, Mrs Monoyi. I don't know if you have one at your party, Mr. Loverdo. With regard to what I have heard about the day and the thirty-three thousand complaints, I think we must stop this, make our society aware and operate against the perpetrators. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u233	To facilitate the debate, I would like to say on behalf of the Ministry of Labour that I accept ministerial amendments Nos 581/50, 585/53 and 587/55.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u234	Congressman or ministerial?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u235	Ministerial.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Minister. Mr Constantine Maraveyas has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u237	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is true that today's bill makes it difficult for all members of the counterpopulation. This is because, apart from the Communist Party that always remains in its refusal, all other parties have not been able to deny from the outset the undeniable supportive measures that the Ministry of Labour brings, both in favour of vulnerable groups and in favour of social security, the unemployed and those affected by the current economic crisis. I would like to congratulate the State Secretary responsible, Mrs Michailidou, on the successful initiative she has taken to resolve issues relating to social solidarity. In fact, in the midst of the second wave of the coronary, the government takes measures for a multitude of vulnerable people, in fact proving the social sensitivity of the New Democracy and the liberal party. Some of these particularly important measures included in this bill are the extension of the beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income, which will now cover the homeless, as will women victims of violence. It is also facilitated by the payment of the housing allowance to the elderly uninsured fellow citizens and the permanent 'House and Work' programme which supports the transition of homeless to autonomous living, ensuring for them by the OAS and a job. Another critical aspect of the new measures is the protection of the welfare centres and care facilities of the elderly from the second koronovirus wave, as all care units are covered with free personal protective facilities for their employees and free of charge for all. This will be done for the eight thousand workers, and for the tens of thousands of our vulnerable fellow people who find care in these centres. For Articles 11 and 12, which relate to the financing of innovative institutions, Minister, I hope that they will now be removed from the bureaucratic problems which have hampered the grant specifically of public-private legal persons. A characteristic example is the Volos Orphanage, which also needs the direct support of the state to survive. I am sure that the Ministry's political leadership will be able to respond in time to the needs of such sensitive structures, especially those certified by the Ministry itself. On the occasion of Articles 13 and 14, for unaccompanied minors, I would like to make two general comments on the matter of their hospitality. First of all, it is absolutely positive and necessary for the Greek state to take measures of legal protection, care and, of course, the hospitality of minors who were in our country, separated from their families. These measures, however, must be a certain time, as all minors are once adult. Nor can such measures be in any way an end in itself by a favoured State. The aim must be to reunification unaccompanied minors with their families, if they do exist. This is our primary humanitarian duty not only toward minor immigrants, but to all the children of the world living outside the family. In this sense, I would like the Ministry of Labour to see the question of the permanent functioning of such structures again by working with NGOs. Indeed, on SYRIZA it started at the Ministry of National Defence, with responsibility at the time of ANELs, a construction project for converting provincial institutions into structures for permanent hospitality of unaccompanied immigrants. Such an example is the Paedopolis "ATHY SOFIA" in Agria of Volos, where part of the facilities is even used today as a place of hospitality by the Red Cross. In addition to this structure and some special schools operating there, the "FYROM SOFIA" does not currently have an overall and long-term development plan. There is a proposal from the Paedopolis graduates for the creation of a holiday centre for small and medium-sized enterprises and their families, which I have put to the attention of the Ministry, and I hope that it will soon be considered in the context of a coherent plan, which we should always take a long time. Speaking of MEPs, Minister, I take the opportunity to reiterate the parents' request to re-activate Law 2643 in the framework of the OAED. I received a letter yesterday from the Parents and Wardens Association, which states that there have been recent positive discussions with the relevant departments of your Ministry. I therefore hope that the anticipated calls for the OAED recruitment competition will be launched very soon. It is not only a great social need, but also an obligation of the state, which, unfortunately, has also been forgotten about SYRIZA. Mr President, with regard to the second part of the draft law, which concerns e-ECA and social security issues, there is no doubt that the provisions contained are positive. The reduction in the insurance contributions of employers and workers is a measure to support the employment received by the government, and in this very difficult situation of the pandemic. Also important is the possibility of resetting insurance debts, which is being activated for lost coronary arrangements. This provision closes the cycle of conversion of insurance into tax, a reproach of the SYRIZA government, which marked the free traders in previous years. In the same positive direction, both the provision for increasing the pensions of orphans and the single financial assistance of engineers, lawyers and other scientists from the OAED are being initiated. These are necessary, pointless, interventions by the Ministry of Labour within a very narrow financial area. These interventions, however, do not concern the structural problem of social security in our country, and that is no more than the e-ECA, as I have analysed in the committee's work. The core of the problem is the malfunctioning of our largest insurance fund and, in particular, of its provisions, its main pension, supplementary pension and one-off pension. And all this needs to be debated openly and we need to take structural measures to restructure e-ECA, a hydro-headed organisation, with twelve directorates-general at the centre and without strong pension award services in the region. Nine months after the reopening of the EFCA in the form of e-ECA, we have to make some findings. Most importantly, there is a lack of critical internal changes that would make the single form functional. Due to the enormous size of the e-ECA and despite the ambitious efforts of administration and employees, the agency is now facing growing problems due to successive mergers. I am mainly talking about the great delays in the awarding of pensions, which are due to the systematic inability of e-ECA to absorb so many different funds within such a short period of time. This great debate on social security must be started here, in the House, with honesty and practical thought. We all have to speak openly about the absolutely necessary solutions that need to be given for the benefit of social security, and we need these solutions to be implemented and very soon for the people of that country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr. Maraveya. Mrs Liana Kanelle, from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u239	Thank you very much, Mr President. In view of today's debate, and also of the issue that he has been working on today at the same time as the meeting, namely the World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, I have to observe only two things, which are not just related to the ointment, but to hypocrisy, which has left over to such an extent, which has not even been heard in the prime minister's swordmaker with the Chief of Officership. Which Parliament were women like me and all who are celebrating or not celebrating today and who are watching us at the moment, and the men who were living in the same Parliament who were watching us before and then, when you were talking about all this and at the same time you entered a Criminal Code, and you did back any protection that was provided for by the previous Criminal Code for the violence suffered by women and when you went to something even worse. You wiped out the sentence there, with a year of imprisonment by the employer, when it makes sexual harassment, as women call sexual harassment. To date, violence against women is facilitated. You've made it easier for her. Let me tell you another form of violence, because, since we are discussing it and because you are talking about targeted benefits, I will tell you that targeted benefits and terms such as'sensitive and vulnerable groups' are codification and introduction of capitalist dystomia. You are literally capitalizing capitalist dystocia and making poor people as customers with targeted action. Clients may be election, possibly customers with guns on the head, in order to be able to support a policy that is against them, but because the enemy has become the one that is not completely poor, but very little better, to be his main donor even poorer. So you are talking about structures that will be built, settled and consolidated. With what money? Where are you getting the money from? Why are you lying? All these years there have been structures, from bad women to people who are homeless and have no head bed to old people to care institutions. Whose is that? Is it the state? Aren't they abandoned what's state-owned? Aren't they subordinated? And now you're coming to make contagious interventions? All these years all governments have allowed these vulnerable groups to become vulnerable. That's why the intention of targeting action on pandemic is death. It smells like death in fact. All research here and abroad shows that with a basic class mark you will see the victims hit and have access to care or elsewhere. There is no need for much to be voted on positively. Half a franc to give, half a tenth of the euro, you will not be told 'no' to something you are giving and you will see us say 'yes' to many articles. What does that mean? That, at the outset and on the philosophy of this bill, can one really agree? Do you know how many centres that can protect women, how many creative employment centres? Are there in all the areas? Are people secure with employment relationships? How does someone become vulnerable? Because he's unemployed. Tell me: A woman - or a man with a woman - needs more violence than working ten hours continuously, possibly from home, in which he can have a disabled child and take with the new 200 euros professions an increasing wage? How much more violence? What violence are you talking about? For what target provision? Who? You're increasing the pension they're taking from both parents. Those kids who'll get her what pension they are? Cut seven, ten and twenty times! Do you know how much the allowance was for a child? It was 125 euros a two-month period. What child lives at 125 euros a two-month period? You're going to do it 300 euros, and what's going to happen? Now I'm saying a random number. Should I move on to other numbers? No, because I only have seven minutes. I cannot in seven minutes list criminal policy until today that produces vulnerable groups. It is a criminal policy, for example, to save banks, to save businesses, to recapitalise banks, and at the same time to view as flagrant the fact that you are institutionalising vulnerability and poverty and recycle it by distributing benefits! With temporary jobs of four and five months all are candidates for unemployed and all are vulnerable. With the ageing under these current conditions, under the pretext and the alibi of the ten-year crisis of the memorials and now of the pandemics, you come and say in Article 14, not in the old 1-1-4- that an old homeless and insecure may have a bonus, but not in the sixty-five. He must last as a vulnerable group up to sixty-seven. Grab him another two years! Why, if you don't bore him there, how are you going to give them after the pension to sixty-seven? And if things go a little better, you'll do it by seventy. Why are you going to save that way? How much will you save, for how many homeless people, old people who don't have a head bed? There are people who, because they have a house, a two or a wardrobe, get nothing and sell it so that they can get the pension that no one had. And now you come and say you give them a roof allowance. I hear you're going to stir the NGOs. At the same time as you involve NGOs, you send police officers, prosecutors, investigations into suspect NGOs, who have found huge customers in vulnerable groups. You've been beginning with the refugees, now we're reaching the natives too, and there's one thing becoming a rope. Why? But the public sector is PPP. It is a public-private partnership. So there won't be any profit? From the handicapped, how many make a profit? From those who sell drugs to those who sell machinery, from those who sell artificial members to those who sell them material so that they can study. So when this climate is created, we make conditions that sound very nice, such as 'false groups'. Who makes the vulnerable teams and who pays the marble, once someone says it is, "other than Lakepemonies", not a fan of capitalist profit. Because at the same time as you are talking about the recent poverty and you are putting a minimum guaranteed income, you are giving us a minimum guarantee of humanity. That's why it's emblematic. It's the least humanity you can have, the least!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u240	Finish, Mrs. Canelle, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u241	And when you have this minimal humanity and when you have institutionalised dystopia, then remember something: The more you put more minimum benefits - targeted or unsavoury, it is indifferent - and the more you talk about minimum guaranteed incomes, the more you leave the sky out of profits. On the day you put the ceiling on profits - and you won't do it, the people will - then you won't need a minimum income. There'll be enough for everyone. As long as profits exploit the poor, the disabled and the vulnerable, to make plans and schemes that allow the state to return the private hospitals, in fact, along with the workers, then some will make more money and grow the scalps. And it's not the sickle, it's even the sickle of common sense that you've taken us, and you've cut us off with some bills like this on the basis of the title and the huge self-satisfaction to present it as emblematic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, too. Let's go to Mr. Athanasios Pleri from New Democracy. Here you go, Mr. Plori, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u243	Mr President, just because I don't have time, I'm interrupted when my time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u244	I'll interrupt in five minutes. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u245	First of all, today is a great day - and to start with it - because it is the day against the violence of women. And when we say violence against women - because there is often a desire to be concerned about heavy expressions - we should see the violence that women experience every day. In addition to the critic cases that we all know, such as the cases of family violence and other forms of violence, it is also the violence of the pressure it can take, the violence of tolerance in sex remarks, the violence of tolerance if foreign officials, who are our friends, are harassing women and are not talking. And, if you'll excuse me, it's what has been said before. Because it is good to put expressions that do not exist in our criminal space, such as the 'female murder', which I hear is called Coron, but the same people who come and say that, were the ones who voted to change the Criminal Code. In the Criminal Code rape, which is essentially a crime that is committed to women and children primarily - in all sexes it may be, but in women and children primarily - and it was an offence that started as a major felony in any form, whether violence or threat, now it has become a division depending on whether it is a threat to health or physical integrity and then remains a felony with a lower penalty, but it is a much smaller felony when it has other forms of threat. Therefore, apart from the fine and heavy expressions that exist, we need to see what is happening in the legislative framework and at some point - and I am finishing this position on women's violence - we need to see the strict criminalisation in the cases of trafficking, not just for the one who is causing traficking, but for the one who accepts the services. Because many times there are societies that close their eyes and the one who goes and receives the'service' is basically the renowned citizen who has no sanctions, and he is also part of the trafficking chain. At some point we need to see a comprehensive tightening up of the framework for violence against all people and today towards women, because it is the day against women's violence and is linked to their direct exploitation. At the same time, because this bill is basically coming from the Committee on Social Affairs, I would like to thank, for my part, the ladies and gentlemen, doctors who have put themselves in the services of the National Health System, as we have seen in the past few days. Now, this bill has really brought to a discomfort with the opposition, because in the part specifically related to the Secretary, and Mrs Michaelidou, and with all this support for vulnerable groups and prosperous structures in reality, there can be no representative. The left is obviously annoyed at the moment, because it felt that it has a monopoly many times on matters relating to the operation and support of structures aimed at our fellow people who have far greater needs. And that was a real myth, because the liberal party has a purely social sign. We, instead of some others, consider that the success of all people and their best possible well-being does not come from a socialist perception of things, but comes from a liberal conception of things. Previously I heard the speaker from the Communist Party of Greece. Indeed, socialism shares poverty, they are all poor and equal. Capitalism can share unequivocally, but it shares wealth, and through this wealth potential is given everywhere for growth. The flagship part of the bill, which is a series of actions brought by this government, before the coronary and during the pandemic, which show its attachment to what it had said in the election, is the attempt to give both workers and businesses the opportunity to develop. Because our position is that as much pie as there is, the greater pie there is, everyone is favoured. In this way, therefore, the cycle of this very pressing one is being closed today, especially for the self-employed - self-employed, insurance policy that brought SYRIZA, which was an insurance policy - tax. The Minister, Mr Brutsis, has begun with the change in the framework that does not depend on incomes. It was us, this government - because we are talking about who is favoured, if those who are at low levels are favoured - who have reduced the starting tax rate from 22% to 9%. There came an insurance framework that again the average income, which was there, unleashed it from the rocks we had. Those here who are freelance professionals, we lived and we were living in the SYRIZA period, we know what we were paying for. One-third of the income. As if someone who took 20,000 euros, 25 000 euros, 30,000 euros annual income was the very big income. He was giving 1/3. There's been a correction of this. It now comes with this bill and closes this cycle, because it gives free professionals and employees the opportunity, again, to pay what they should have and to start, as they started, from 1 January 2020, by seeing the difference. In this crisis, with real intersection between both the worker and the company, we come and reduce the insurance contributions. Here, it is very important to show, as our rapporteur, Dimitris Markopoulos, that society must now hear that SYRIZA is actually against this reduction. We are also listening to SYRIZA speakers. There, is his ideological basis. His ideological basis is actually to punish anyone who works and produces, to create armies of state-dependent allowances. It is very important to reduce the insurance contributions that are being made. And this is the second time that the government has made such a reduction in the year and a half which is at the wheel of the country. With this reduction, in fact, we are giving the opportunity to businesses now that have been based throughout this period as long as we can and have taken the opportunities that exist in the middle of a pandemic to understand that they are now dealing with a framework and a government that will be able to develop the next day. At the same time, the worker earns money with specific examples of what has been said. It is important at some point that we get out of this competition that the Left often likes to have. And the employer and the worker are useful, so that there can be a working environment and a development at the place. Because business needs to be supported, because companies are giving work and, respectively, work must be supported, especially when we are in conditions where there are too many difficulties, such as now. Therefore, with this mixture, which is being attempted is to be able to rely on work, to rely on businesses, not only on a framework that has to do with pandemic conditions, which is very important, but on a framework that can be permanent and knows that the ones it produces will return back to the back, but the state's raid will not become a robbery. With these thoughts, then, we support the bill and believe that in this whole context there will be support for the next day, after the pandemic, for all businesses and workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr. Plearis. And we're going to Mr. Socrates Famell from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you will allow me to speak about today. 25 November is the international day dedicated to the elimination of violence against women. I think we all have to agree that the circle of silence must be broken, that there must be no fear. Speak freely. We must stand by anyone who is victims of violence. But you will allow me, Mr President, to refer to today and as the day of the totalitarian celebration of the National Resistance. Today is a day of blowing up the bridge of Gorgepotamos, a leading resistance act of the National Resistance. I think it is worth talking about these facts, because memory and history are the continuity and support for freedom, but also for democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u248	We have a problem with the connection. Mr. Famelle, we need to check your connection. You don't sound. We must go to the next speaker until the problem is corrected by the connection between Mr Famellos. Mr. Femmelle, there's a problem. We'll reconnect. Mrs Sophia - Haido Asmakopoulou is called in Stepma from the Greek Solution. Previously, I wished the Caterina. We forgot Mrs Alexopoulou, ours.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, before I enter the bill, I would like to refer to today, because today is the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. It is a global pandemic. It is perhaps the most shameful violation of human rights. Unfortunately, the figures in Greece are frustrating. We are all concerned about this because, when it goes on, we cannot claim that we are making substantial progress towards equality. As far as the bill is concerned, we referred during the committee meetings to the individual articles. However, what one can see in general is that the crises in our country, one after another, have had a particularly negative impact on the poverty and inequality of the Greeks. The measures introduced are not as much as they would have to support substantially the vulnerable groups. Unfortunately, despite the difficulty of the circumstances, we note that many of the arrangements act indirectly to the detriment of Greeks and Greeks, since the application for the birth allowance to be granted to any child born in our country and not only in Greeks, until the homeless are integrated into the minimum guaranteed income, without any clarification as to whether it will be for foreigners as well. Furthermore, we also see your excessive commitment to NGOs. Indicatively, we meet it up to the revenues of the state-of-the-art social perspective, which will also be allocated to NGOs, but also to the programmes to support social welfare centres and care facilities for elderly people. When there are moves of support, these moves must be real and effective. Otherwise, we're not talking about support. A characteristic is the example of coronary wounds, where otherwise insurance debts are regulated. How? With a nipple in the neck? And, as if not all of this were enough, photographic devices once again give and take. Are there a lot of people who haven't settled yet? The Greek taxpayers are swayed by this situation, but apparently they are not your absolute priority. And this can easily be concluded by the fact that you regulate even more specializedly to protect unaccompanied minors. We note that the Ministers for Finance and Labour and Social Affairs are being given over the housing allowance. That brings us questions. It annoys the fact that the persons who held the presidents, directors and members of the Board of Directors of the OEEK, from its establishment to its abolition, will not be liable for the payment of the insurance contributions, additional fees, surcharges and other charges due by the OEEK to social security institutions. At the same time, criminal prosecution has ceased for them. Not all of the rest were reached, including the possibility of entrusting private lawyers and engineers with the rights of OAED to the Register. As you say, this possibility will be provided to the Director of the Labour Force Agency. Pending immunity, then. With regard to the exceptional cases of the granting of indisposed and vacant dwellings by the OAED, we are still not told. Is it only about Greek taxpayers' citizens, or are you keeping us from joining foreigners for surprise? Even the income criteria are not specified. As for aid to lawyers, engineers and economists from the Special Unemployment Account in favour of the Self-Government and Independents, we are asked to place ourselves on an article, which does not even define the amount. Does that make sense to you? The vulnerable groups are not only affected by insufficient incomes and material goods, but also by a lack of resources and opportunities. And all that undermines their dignity. The dignity of the Greeks is very important, no one disputes it. No one, except for your policies. Beyond the vulnerable social groups and the unemployed, however, we must not forget both doctors and nurses, heroes who fight every day, overcoming their limits, themselves. And that's because subsecution in the most critical battle is reigning. When we hear that a doctor corresponds to twenty - five incidents, only rage can be felt at the expense of both those and the patients. The situation in public hospitals is out of control. Risk has now reached the highest point. Health workers are falling apart. Patients are at despair. And we still have a way in front of us. The inability to bridle supply and demand on the labour market is a very serious issue, which must finally be resolved to tackle unemployment and stimulate economic growth. We, in the Greek Solution, have said it, said it, and we will say it: give incentives back to those of the Greeks who left the country, so that they can work during the economic crisis. Ensure opportunities and incentives for those in our country. The crumbs and the subsidised policy can only take our country and the citizens back. That's not how growth comes. There are many and time-consuming wounds in the sector, both work and welfare in favour of vulnerable social groups. We can't all close our eyes. The Greek labour market offers skilled young people with few opportunities. As long as the real economy does not create jobs, all measures - supportive, supportive or even long-term structural - are not sufficient to resolve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mrs Ahmakopoulou, and thank you for keeping time. Madam with 'K', as always. Mr Iason Fotillas, from Achaia and New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u251	Mr President, good evening. The bill under discussion has a presumption of success. I'd say he has a confession of success. This is illustrated by the attitude of the bodies, which almost everyone at the hearing expressed positively on the bill, congratulated and thanked the relevant ministers. It seems, however, even more than the attitude of the opposition parties themselves. Any copy of the Opposition on this bill had nothing to do with whether the bill was positive. We all agreed if it is. The rival was exhausted to the good of the bill, if it benefits a few, several, many, all Greeks, even though it benefits them. Does it benefit them with 50 euros, 100 euros, 200 euros, 500 euros? If this in itself is not a presumption of success, then what is a criterion of success, really? Ladies and gentlemen, I have repeatedly stressed that this government, despite the enormous difficulties it has been called upon to face, has not stopped either supporting citizens and businesses but its reform work for the benefit of society as a whole. I would remind you that within about a year and a half, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has been called upon to face risks and challenges that no other government had commonly faced, at least from the Migration and then: immigration, Turkish provocation, earthquake, the unprecedented pandemic of the coronary, which, with its second wave, has been severely affected by many countries in the world, most of Europe and ours. With this bill, therefore, Minister Brutsi and Deputy Minister Michailidou, the citizens who have been most affected by the economic crisis are supported. However, structural, progressive reforms are being promoted for the benefit of our children and also certain vulnerable social groups. In the first part of the bill, at the initiative of the Deputy Minister Michailidou, we have, first of all, positive arrangements for children in creative centres and for people with disabilities. Legislative gaps in the authorisation for their operation are covered. For the first time too, not only is the minimum guaranteed income extended because of the coronary, but there is also inclusion in it of the homeless and women who have been victims of violence. Furthermore, the framework governing the institution of assignors, adopted in a more operational direction, is being reformed and extended to applications for birth grants, increasing the budget from EUR 123 million to EUR 160 million in 2021. Finally, under Article 15, a programme entitled "House and Work for the Homeless" is established by the Ministry, so that they too have the right to a second opportunity. In the second part of the bill we have in Article 31 the comprehensive reform of the reduction in insurance contributions by 3.5 points. We are all aware of the blocking factor in employment that has high non-wage costs. But while we all know it, and especially the world of wage earners, only New Democracy has introduced a reduction in insurance contributions and an increase in indirect wages, unlike SYRIZA, which has done absolutely nothing. On the contrary, he's offended. As for any gaps in the OAED, they will be fully covered by the State budget. The Minister said so clearly. The Prime Minister confirmed that, too. For us, the OAED is - and will continue to be - a central pillar for work. It is also very important to regulate the issue of unlocking insurance information so that it can be acquired and the sale of real estate does not stop. I would also like to focus on the most important reform carried out by the Minister and friend Mr Brutsis. It is a follow-up to the reform of the "ERGANI", which fully reflects the situation in the country's insurance system and contributes to the faster awarding of pensions by e-ECA, so as not to see again phenomena of fleece and hidden, with outstanding pensions. Overall, these are reforms that also relieve citizens, but also create a new social state, with targeted benefits to those who really need it. But we don't live there alone. As I said at the outset, we are directly supporting the citizens and businesses affected by the economic crisis because of the lockdown. Overall, as we will say in the budget debate, the Greek state has given EUR 23.9 billion in 2020 and together with the EUR 7 billion budgeted for 2021, amounting to EUR 32 billion. I would like here to focus on the special aid provided for in this bill, in addition to the long-term unemployed, for lawyers, engineers and economists with the exceptional financial support. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Ministers, in particular the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Vésiropoulos, with whom I have spoken, for joining the fourth round of repayable advance and new lawyers. Already on Monday, 50% of the amount was paid. And, very soon, there will also be the payment of the remaining amount. I would remind you that the fourth, but also the fifth round, are even more beneficial, and more can be subsidized and 50% of the subsidy will not be repaid. In all of this, what does the sad Opposition have to oppose and especially the Civic Opposition? Only a bet on destructiveness. He said: "Last Greece in health expenditure, according to OECD figures." Only the figures presented arrive until April 2020. Today, Mr Tsipras, from the Step of the House, confessed that this was a stop in April 2000. Of course, he said that after April - and we said that we gave 780 million - we only gave 80 million. But the evidence disproves him once again. Because, Mr Tsipras, with 80 million, you cannot, first, increase the budget of the HR by 25% from 3.8 billion to 4.8 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u252	Mr. Lightla, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u253	I shall conclude, Mr President. You cannot, secondly, increase the MSF by 123%, from five hundred fifty-seven in a thousand two hundred and two, thirds to increase the staff serving in the HSF by 14%, from eighty-eighty ninety-sixteen to a hundred thousand nine hundred eighty-four. And, finally, you can't with 80 million to hire seven thousand doctors and nurses, most of whom will remain permanent after the end of the crisis. You have arrived at the last point of inhumanity, with the headlines of your newspapers showing open graves, which you fortunately removed directly after the generalised outcry. I will close with this: ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, stop betting and investing in the disaster. You'll stay calm again. The country will make it possible, it will come out of this global crisis and we will go out louder both in health and in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr. Lightla. To prepare Mr. Emmanuel Thraniotis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u256	We're listening, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr President. It's paradoxical and strange what I'm going to say. I feel a little weird about how to say it. We'll see if I can make it. Now we read from the Argentine websites that Diego Maradona died.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u258	I was about to say it. You got me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u259	I don't know what's going on and how much this man saw him on the field and what he understood. I am, I was one of many of the millions - not to say more - people on the planet that we were going behind. Where he was playing, we absolutely had to see him, even when we watched television from the TVs, Mr President, who was in Thessaloniki at the electric stores, and we were outside, coloured.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u260	In Angelakis, your dorm.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u261	Anyone who wants to see the man a little, because his life gave him a lot of messages, anyway, who wants to see what he was, let him see in the "SPERSPORT" a related two-hour film. He'll understand more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. We're football fans, and we understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u263	Mr President, I too would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u264	Here you go, Mr. Marcopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u265	We had just this conversation about Armando Diego Maradona. It is only because it is an authentic folk hero who - I think - is of concern to us all as representatives of popular parties and peoples. That is why we wanted to make this statement. He is a hero of our childhood, who has something to do with the hearts, not only of the Greeks, but of the whole planet. So for this popular hero, we would like to make our point. It's a global mourning.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u266	You're doing very well, Mr. Comrade. A moment ago, I was telling the partner that Pele lives and we lost Maradona. It is, of course, a different life.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u267	We're marathonists.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u268	We, because of our age, are with Pelle. Mr. Thraniotis has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes. I would ask you to keep the time, because I have a committee here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. Let me point out, on the occasion of the world day against violence against women, that the authorities responsible for protecting women have arrested a group of women in the Constitution, while respecting all distances and all security measures. That is what I think it does not commemorate today against women's violence. On the occasion of today's debate, I would like to stress that the deep concern of the citizens, the concern of workers, professionals and businesses, on the occasion of the pandemic, creates reasonable concerns and a threat to social cohesion. The message that has to be sent from today's debate to every Greek citizen is that the attitude of each of us will help prevent this collective risk. It is a society that has reached its limits and has begun to go beyond them. It is a society that now needs, yesterday, from the state's unconditional support to deal with the economic and health crisis, a bomb that is ready to explode, with disastrous consequences. In this context, this draft law needs, without creative accounting, to clearly show its intentions and objectives. But is that really so? It is difficult to achieve a situation when it is disgusted by events. In the budget submitted to Parliament, the central concept that goes through the Pissaridis report is that the entire social policy pursued by the State must be linked, directly or indirectly, to the labour market, mobility, flexible forms of work, etc. All kinds of allowances, from the minimum guaranteed income and unemployment benefit must be reformed. This explains why the budget provides for zeros - up to a minimum - aid for equipment and infrastructure in the National Health System, for workers, for tourism, for free traders, for scientists, for the long-term unemployed, for culture, for farmers, for employees, for small and medium-sized enterprises and even for loans of the repayable advance promised by the government. The only 2.5 billion expenditure allocated for social expenditure shows the intentions of addressing social needs, when in 2018 the budget was €3.5 billion. I should also like to point out that in 2015 this government, which was described earlier by the colleague who spoke - who did not want to use this designation - received it with 789 million to reach 3,5 billion in 2019. So there are questions in a blurred landscape, with human life in danger, not only from coronary and economic tolerance, but also from psychological and mental disorders. The draft law under discussion, a large part of it, refers to welfare and changes that are presented as reform areas. In fact, they are amendments to previous laws, amendments that improve deficiencies and even failures. It is only natural that a law needs improvements when it is implemented in practice. These improvements, which are considered necessary, as our rapporteur, Mrs Fotou, pointed out, will be supported. I would point out, at the same time, that, on the occasion of the cut of 400 million social expenditure in the 2020 budget, seven and a half thousand children have been left without voucher, because in 2020, the beneficiaries were reduced from sixty-three thousand to sixty-three thousand. I should also like to point out, as far as the aid for disabled people is concerned, that at the moment there are thirty-seven thousand applications for welfare disability pending examination in the JEPs which have closed down. That is why we tabled an amendment and please accept it, in order to extend all those who have already received the disability allowance for six more months and to grant the allowance to those who have submitted complete dossiers to the OPEKA for the first time. I will also point out that in the government of SYRIZA we have established forty-five community centres and the digital OPEKA. We established and gave it to seven hundred thousand fellow citizens when the New Democracy had designed the minimum guaranteed income piloted for thirty thousand. We've created the electronic disability file. We reformed the child's allowance by increasing the budget from 650 million to 1.1 billion. Here, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the figures speak, not the words. We also established hot school meals for a hundred and eighty - five thousand children. We doubled the vouchers at nursery stations and CIDs and CIDs - ACE from seventy-five thousand in 2015 to fifty-five thousand in 2019. This is indeed the tangible proof of who exercises social policy. Today the vast majority of society is faced with poverty and the Christmas gift is being curtailed. I would point out that 215 million was granted in 2019 compared to the 780 granted under SYRIZA government. The hotel workers and small businessmen of tourism have been left to their fate after a catastrophic year. If you really want to support the workers, the weak social strata, behold Rhodes. Please accept the amendments tabled by the SYRIZA Members - a Progressive Alliance, but also by the other parties, for the financial support with an exceptional allowance at the Christmas present, to be paid directly to those in need.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u270	Please complete, Mr. Thraniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u271	I shall conclude, Mr President. Let me note that from 10:30 we are waiting to talk. I would like to make a reference to Article 66, which provides for exceptional financial support to economists, lawyers and engineers. Branches that meet similar criteria were excluded. The Minister spoke of uncertainty and that he would fix it by an amendment, as he mentioned in his position. I hope that all exceptions will be included. I would point out, however, that dentists, who are at the forefront of the coronary, exposed to the coronary, are the sector that has been completely ignored by the protection measures. There is another point, Mr President, and this is the complaints made publicly by workers in the public hospitals, that hospital managers are asked to list the workers who are working only on COVID, excluding the rest of the workers in the public health system. I hope that you do not do so, and I also hope that the COVID allowance will be granted to all employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr Thraniotis. Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulos has the floor from New Democracy, and then Mr Famelos is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic battle continues. The National Health System is tested, it gives an unequal battle in which even the world’s best health systems were unable to cope. The efforts of doctors and nurses are heroic. At this time we all need to help these people with our responsible attitude to limit the spread of the disease and reduce the pressure on the system. At this time of battle, unity, joint effort and assembling all political forces are needed. However, at this time, we find a Dedicated Opposition below the circumstances, which is investing in destruction in order to gain political benefits. I shall mention, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Response, in particular, elements of your party's positions, in addition to the personal behaviour of some of your officials, who look like a negative attitude or divide into unacceptable accusations. You are always critical of the measures, without any substantial proposals. You were opposed to the opening of schools in the first phase, and you then supported the opening of schools with a smaller number of students in the rooms, while you knew there were not enough. You were opposed to tele-education in the first phase, expressing reasons for even a breach of personal data, but in the second phase you are interested and criticized for its quality. At the same time, with your attitude, which we have all seen last week, and the non-implementation of measures on banning meetings, you are giving a message of disobedience to provisions adopted to protect public health. On the one hand, you are concerned about public health and the restriction of the virus and on the other hand, you are creating a society that is fighting, not to mention visits to the ICU without a mask. At the same time as you are criticising sterilely, you have made no proposal to tackle the pandemic. After May, you asked for the opening of the economy and then you talked about an untimely closure, but you had never proposed in the meantime, unless you had suggested that at some point earlier lockdown and did not understand it. The Government of New Democracy continues to fight for the pandemic, but also to address the economic consequences it has caused, and in this effort this bill contains many important provisions which help to strengthen the free professionals and the vulnerable social groups, which are our pre-election commitments and I shall refer to some of them. Article 31 provides for the reduction from 1st to 2021 by three percentage points of the insurance contributions of employees to non-public bodies. Thus, in total, the reduction in insurance contributions to the government of New Democracy reaches 3.9 and is close to the target we have set for 5%. It is a measure that supports employers and workers affected by the economic crisis, as they increase their income. It also has a growth mark and contributes to the fight against unemployment, since it reduces non-wage costs, which is an employment factor. It is another pre-election commitment that is taking place. In addition, Articles 32 to 35 allow insurance debts to be regulated in order to meet the difficult economic circumstances of the pandemic affected, which has led the insured to be unable to meet their insurance obligations, which reaches twenty-four instalments starting from 30 to 2021. At the same time, Article 66 provides for support to lawyers, engineers and economists, granting one-off financial assistance, which is not confiscated, not offset by any debts and is not counted against family income, and this support is to be added to the possibility for these professional groups to join the repayable advance. We thus support active professional groups that have been affected, both in the first wave and in the second wave. Another very important support provided by this bill is also to the long-term unemployed, as it provides for the possibility of occasional employment, without losing the advantages of the status quo of their legal status in OAS's unemployment registers. The minimum guaranteed income is extended, having first joined it homeless and women victims of violence living in hospitality. So, not by words, this government is facing the problem of violence against women, to which today's day is devoted. Also, with the ministerial amendment tabled on Article 9, the minimum guaranteed income for December is increased twice. Ladies and gentlemen, these measures are to be added to what we have already legislated and create an important framework for strengthening the pandemic affected. We are implementing a coherent policy of aiding businesses, scientists, unemployed and vulnerable social groups with wisdom and awareness of the continuing consequences of the pandemic in the economy and its unknown duration. However, it is certain that no professional group will remain without support and in future any interventions will be taken, because that is the government which reduces taxes and insurance contributions, that is the government which has guaranteed the minimum guaranteed income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr Nikolakopoulou, for keeping time. Mr Socrates Famelos has the floor. Now we can't get the connection. Mr. Femelle, you had stopped at the point about Gorgopotamo. You should tell them from the beginning. Don't think I don't remember.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the opportunity to speak again. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today, first of all I think it is internationally dedicated to eliminating violence against women. We must all help to break the circle of silence, to support women who have been victims of violence to speak freely, to be next to every victim of violence and to say clearly: 'Don't be afraid, speak freely'. The state, political is responsible for supporting women and anyone, of course, who is the victim of violence. This day, however, is a Pan-Hellenic Celebration Day of the National Resistance, because as today it was blown up by the Greek National Resistance of the Gogopotamos bridge, a leading anti-fascist event, a leading resistance event, which supported the European fight of resistance. Today, then, memory and history feed on the continuity of the struggle, because the struggle for freedom and democracy is continuous, the fight against fascism never stops. But today is at the same time finding us in a very difficult, tragic one - I would say - health but also a social crisis. Especially in our region, Mr President, in Thessaloniki, things are very difficult. The doctors on the front line of war live dramatic moments, so as not to reuse the term "tragic". There are cases of coronary in much of the population, many victims and many weaknesses, government delays, delays and support for the health system, delays and prevention and measures. All of this, while it was known that there was a case explosion at least one week before St. Demetrius's celebration. Yet the government did nothing. There are serious responsibilities for this situation, and I think it is hypocritical that the indictment, if you wish, is hypocritical on the part of the government MPs and ministers, when in practice - even now - they have not imposed the health structures, they have not brought young doctors, they have not supported the health staff, they are not conducting tests on the population of Thessaloniki. And these are things that can be done today. So let us unite our voices, if you want to help, to make these things happen today. Because responsibilities will also be recorded historically and politically. But today what is happening in Thessaloniki and the rest of Greece? The government still does not provide for it. I think the bill gives us a chance to discuss something even more specific. There is a complaint from Mrs Fotou on this matter. I had to, Minister, come December to decide to fund the nursing homes for protection measures, when the scientific community says that these areas need to be prevented in advance, and we need to pay attention to places such as this, and why is the third age, and why are our parents and grandparents? But not just negligence, but the political choice to degrade the issue is seen by the fact that the government is now passing a provision and is getting authorization and the Minister has announced today that he will give 2 million to the nursing homes. Do you want congratulations or can we say that it is a disgrace to the political system that we have now come to have such issues to choose? Also, the fact that we have sixty cases at the "Agios Panteleimon" in Thessaloniki is a sign of the neoliberal negligence, devaluation and political choice of the New Democracy not to really support society, because we have testified for the same institution since September 18, together with Mrs.Photos, a question. This is because many issues of awards, contracts and peculiar financial relations exist there, as well as throughout the government, because companies open up one day and take the other day to obtain health material, because some ‘globes’ are doing jobs, because there are super-profits - and you did not put any credit to all health protection measures - because even in the crisis the ‘globes’ of the New Democracy are doing supplies. These are unacceptable when there are cases and human suffering and theme of public health. You are, however, continuing to bring them into the pandemic, with limited Members' participation, a bill which reduces insurance contributions, as Mr Brutsis hypocritically said. At the same time what does he do? It achieves a powerful blow to the OAED and hides it and brings no other regulations to restore the deficit in the OAED's revenue. I therefore believe that the New Democracy's invitation as a government and the rapporteur is hypocritical. How, then, will we support the OAED? Tell us. We will also be next door to reducing contributions and strengthening health protection measures in institutions. But tell us how this is going to happen. Apart from the OAED, you are also trying to achieve a strong blow to both the CIDs and the CIDs - ACEs, when, from the Step of the House, the State Secretary reiterated her threats substantially against the sector of its self-government social policy and is coming to a successful conclusion against the municipalities, against social policy, against the workers in CIDs - AEOs and against the beneficiaries. I think that is unacceptable. It's not exceptionally the CADs - ACCs. It is an essential part of social policy, it is not an exceptional policy. We demand that strong support be given today by the government and for this sector, as is the case with all the other instruments. For example, there is a letter from the ESRA to exclude people with disabilities from Christmas allowances, the curious choices of managers, in breach of merit, which the Minister also attempts to do with Articles 57 and 58. So all this degrades the hypocritical interest in the social sector shown by the government. But we are here to contribute, Mr Marcopoulou. How do we contribute? In our amendments, therefore, we are quite clear about this. Since the Government does not perform its tasks towards society, SYRIZA undertakes to exercise the legislative initiative as well. We have tabled initiatives to measure what attitude you will take, because we are all tempered against society. First, will you support emergency income for all those in need, for the vulnerable, the long-term unemployed, the professional scientists, the people of culture and art? You'll be here. Second matter. Will you support the full Christmas gift so that the state can also cover for the businessman's responsibility the missing part, the full Christmas gift? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thirdly, will you support with us not to cut off any supply of electricity, water, telecommunications and Internet, i.e. Internet data, particularly in specific social groups - without any desire to cover poor payers - for those who need to do so that children really have television education, do not have a ban and stop access to the basic good of life? Do you know that we have professionals today who, while the government tells them "close because of pandemic", cut their power? Today there are complaints from clubs and from Crete and all Northern Greece. What are you going to do about it? So we're mocking society when we say "stay at home"? No, we're supporting her. We need to ensure access to basic goods, especially today that, by means of a communication from EUROSTAT, you have heard what you have achieved. A great European achievement was achieved today by the government. It's up seven steps in power accuracy! Good for you! You're doing very well. Seven points came to power accuracy with the choices of Mr Hatzidakis, to the detriment of all the social groups and Greek production. That's an expensive power.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u276	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u277	I shall conclude, Mr President. So now, in the pandemic, will the state not come to support vulnerable social groups and say that it will ensure that electricity and water are provided? Would you cut off their water too? There are already DESCRIPs that are unable to withstand energy costs and are forced to make increases. What does the state say about all this? Is she relentless? So let go of the crocodile tears. You are responsible for being in this difficult position as a society. At the most difficult time of our post-multi-population we have been the most tragic, neoliberal and conservative government, which only does with the "global" jobs - few energy suppliers have hundreds of millions of millions of profits - and the whole society suffers. Today, then, we will be measured. We will support social measures. Will the government support them? Because it is not possible to use pandemic to sell public property and apply anti-social policies. And I will make a proposal, Mr President, to conclude. We had a serious connection problem, and I had to come to the House to be able to speak. No legislation can be imposed with such an obstacle to the participation of Members. Members cannot be missing from Parliament and you can take advantage of these conditions in order to pass things under society's radar. To agree that public health measures will pass, to support society as long as there is a pandemic, but cannot at the same time sell public wealth or pass antisocial and anti-social and anti-linguistic regulations and anti-linguistic regulations. Will we be here for what society needs, but should you not agree that you will respect pain, anxiety, health issues and do not go through various issues, such as the new legislation on spatial planning that you are suddenly going through, which has been tabled today? I would therefore ask that this embarrassment, absence and anti-population view be avoided in the government's policy. We ask that you also contribute to social struggle and to anguish for life and we await your position in our amendments. This is where you'll count. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, too. We're going back to Elias Prefecture and Mr. Michael Katrin from the Change Movement. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing this bill in a serious climate. We saw the EAW announcements a moment ago. Six hundred fellow citizens persecuted thousands of cases, more than four and a half thousand, are hospitalized in public hospitals and I think we should all weigh our attitude and our public presence. At this point I would like to welcome the willingness of colleagues in health to assist in this national effort, an effort that unites us all and goes beyond any political contradictions and confrontations, because at the moment the enemy is common and, of course, what is important is to guarantee public health, but also human life itself, which is threatened and unfortunately threatens people who are known, friends, relatives, without any criteria and limits. It is therefore a great message to make health a contribution, based on the statements they have made in recent years. I cannot, however, say the same thing about Mr Gerapetti's statements on the intensive statements which introduce the logic of irrationality. Beyond lack of logic, there's something even heavier, I think. It's a lack of consciousness and cynicism. Let's go a little bit to the bill. With regard to the provisions on the CIDs - the rapporteur, George Mulkiotis - has said so in detail - the public social nature of the structures with stable funding, but also permanent working relations, should be shielded by the need to extend the institution to all municipalities, to modernise the services, with a view to independent living on the basis of the relevant UN convention. Today there are four hundred and twenty-four CSRs, seventy-five CSRs, two and a half thousand workers. So you come and define, as an exception and not as a rule, the consolidation of the municipal CCTBs in school buildings and through the joint ministerial decision, you are now leaving them all open, since there are special conditions, conditions and restrictions. We say about the CFPs that are already in operation, predicting that existing permits will not be affected, otherwise it is open to the possibility that 80% of existing structures and thousands of children will be found out of thousands of out-of-work workers. I don't know if the goal is only to go to private structures. I think there should be a harmonious coexistence between the private and public sectors and there are some questions that the Ministry must answer. Is harmonization going to apply next year and the vouches? And, if so, until when, Minister? In the new framework for financial support for families, will the CFP be included in addition to nurseries? Will there continue to be financing of the CSFs in general, or will they only be based on State aid? With regard to the electronic recording of arrivals - departures, I think it is a right measure but impossible. It will create many problems, especially in remote structures. As far as measures to promote assumption and adoption in Article 6 are concerned, we have a number of individual arrangements. The condition of good mental and physical health is abolished. It is foreseen that, in unforeseen cases, the entry of parent contractors in the national register may be omitted. There is a need for brave measures towards the systematic updating of candidate professional assumption contractors, financial support to contractors. Will the government do it? Article 43: Reimbursement costs. It is the third relevant provision, and it does, Minister, provide a solution to a problem. But at the same time, at some point, the Ministry of Labour should see what happens with the speed of pensions for the OGA pensioners. May I now tell you what is going on in the West Greece EPCA, in Patras, which have two years of waiting and do not even receive a temporary pension and cannot get an answer? We must in this disgrace the Ministry give an answer. Article 62: Allocation of indisposed and vacant dwellings by the OAED. Correct measure. It takes particular attention, however, to actually go to the weakest. Article 66: Support for scientists. I do not understand, Minister, why you exclude doctors and dentists from this aid. Do you have any picture of the investment made by a new healthist or did he have done a year or two ago and the economic situation in which he is moving and the difficulties he faces? In fact, what code in the 2020 budget includes the money you will give as aid on the basis of the Ministerial Decision? Since we are discussing the budget alongside the bill, there is no budget heading, there is no relevant code. For 2021 and - that's what the scientists of the country should know, doctors, lawyers, engineers, economists - the relevant code says 'zero'. We as a Change Movement - it has already been said by George Mulkiotis and by Vassilis Kegeroglou - have tabled an amendment to suspend first home auctions, based on the income criteria of Law 4472/2017 adopted by SYRIZA and incorporated the same criteria into the recent bankruptcy of New Democracy. We heard the Prime Minister two weeks ago from this Chamber saying that there will be suspension of first home auctions. I imagine that no one here believes that we are in a state of state when an announcement is announced automatically legislated and that such an announcement is valid. To date, no legislation has been introduced to suspend first home auctions. Incidentally, the provisions of the Ministerial Decision of 6 November on the functioning of the courts are suspended until 30 November as a consequence of the procedures followed by the courts. We, therefore, because the Prime Minister said so, but it seemed to us that he did not bring it today and because on 30 November the suspension expires and we do not have many meetings, we give you the opportunity to vote in favour of all Parliament's wards order to suspend first home auctions. The second article of the amendment tabled by the Change Movement is the extension of the bankruptcy deadlines. I imagine that no one in this Chamber disagrees that at this juncture the Banking Code can begin on 1 - 2021 by liquidating property and all other provisions. I think that all this should be extended until 30 April 2021, the date that the government has chosen to transfer tax, insurance and other obligations. The third is the extension of the deadlines for the collection of supporting documents for those who expect to be tried by the Katseli Act. Watch out. We have voted for an extension for those responsible for reporting 'from any point of view', so that they do not run to the banks, the taxes, the funds to collect supporting documents. However, those who go to save their home, and who will have to apply to be tried by the Katselis law, should today, on 1 December, go to the banks, the taxes, the funds to collect documents. You've given extensions for everyone. Aren't these people anticipated for an extension? We have already said so many times on the amendment on heavy and unhealthy ones. We've testified her many times. I do not understand why you do not bring it and why you do not accept it. Now go give special allowance only to workers in intensive care units. The Prime Minister made an announcement and said that only doctors of intensive care units would become indefinite. Really, these four and a half thousand hospitals as CIVID patients, who hospitalizes them? Aren't they hospitalizing doctors who work in the health system, subsidiary and contract? Should they not be evaluated in the same way? With regard to Amendment No 581 Article 4, rightly, Minister, you understood that supplementary ECA in five instalments cannot be paid until 30 November and you transferred it for 31 March.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u280	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u281	It is my last sentence, Mr President. I'm done. Thank you. To conclude, I would like to say that Amendment No 586, which I saw was tabled by Mr Spanaki and some other colleagues from New Democracy - and the JRC has tabled such an amendment, which removes an injustice for pensioners from the OTE - is in the right direction. Of course, we are in the right direction and obviously support it, and we are voting in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u282	Mr. Vassilis - Peter Spanakis, MP B3' Sector of Athens of New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill that the Ministry of Labour brings today, we are giving a clear message, a message to the workers, a message to the vulnerable social groups, and we are saying clearly that the New Democracy Government, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is here not only for the easy task, but it is here at all difficult. In this call we also ask the other groups to be here in these positive measures that we are taking. In the context of a major health crisis, within a health crisis which has serious economic consequences, within a time when we all need to have a prototype speech, the New Democracy Government comes and implements its election commitments and at the same time takes measures that are adapted to the current needs of the market. As the Prime Minister said this morning, the state is next to every Greek and every Greek woman and we are doing this. Today the bill, through sixty - eight articles, comes and gives a line to specific opportunities and specific directions. Mr President, from the south of Athens, the southern suburbs, I would like to congratulate the Ministry of Labour's political leadership, to congratulate the Minister, Giannis Vroutzis, and the State Secretary, Mrs Michailidou. In this picture we see the "Josofglio Orphanage", a historic building in our region, the southern suburbs, with a very large social project for decades. Article 20 of today's bill gives a very big solution. This foundation, this building, is given to the Ministry of Labour and, by decision of the Minister of Labour, a serious social policy, as has been done so far. And not just that. Without resources for the public, at no cost, while the objective value exceeds 27 million, the Ministry of Labour comes today and gives a solution. And I call on colleagues to vote not only for this provision, Article 20, but for all the provisions. Because the provisions give solutions. You will allow me, because I know that the list has been exhausted and very many colleagues have spoken, to refer to specific articles. I am going to talk about Article 31, on the reduction of insurance contributions, both by the employer and by the worker. We used to call that an election. We're doing this post-election thing. I call on the parties and the opposition to vote on this. Because the reduction in insurance contributions creates the conditions that reduce costs for businesses, which open the door to new jobs. And that's true, it's reality. But let me also say about the opportunities this bill gives. In Article 63 for the occasional work of the unemployed. In Articles 64, 67, 27, in 18, it speaks of inappropriate, tax-free allowances. The social policy of our government is clear. The social policy of the Ministry of Labour is clear. In Article 62, for the indisposed dwellings of the former Labour Housing Agency. I heard Mrs. Fotio judge even this morning. Why? Why is it something you didn't do? Is that something you didn't think about? We believe that social policy has no color, neither blue nor green nor red. Social policy, however, must be exercised quickly and properly, which is what the Government of New Democracy is doing. In Article 45, we give the opportunity to retire people suffering from cystic fibrosis or permanent rectifying fibrosis. In Article 66 we are talking about exceptional aid to scientists, an aid which is also tax-free and inconsistent. We're giving solutions to tax information, insurance information. We are talking about exceptional financial aid to four hundred two hundred and thirty-five of our fellow citizens. But let me also speak at this point about "ATLAS", the "ELIO" that brings to the insurance, at last, transparency and complete knowledge in every detail. And here is an achievement of the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour and the Minister, Giannis Vroutzis. You don't like the reform we're doing, do you? Do you want to talk about e-FOD and the possibilities we give? I have already heard my colleague, Mr Katrin, speak of the problems that exist in Western Greece and Elias. Let me say, however, that we are taking steps forward, that the e-ECA proceeds with concrete changes. We tell the truth to the Greek pensioners. We give the Greek pensioners what has been denied by previous SYRIZA and ANEL governments. We give real opportunities to vulnerable social groups. And that's what we're coming to say today with this bill. But allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to talk about other changes that this bill brings. like, for example, it comes and sets a framework for Creative Employment Centres, for CSRs. We are also strengthening the institution of adoption and of the foster family. The Single Digital Register for the interconnection of children and candidate parents is in operation normally. All children have been registered in the National Juvenile Register. And you know, with particular sensitivity, we bring arrangements for children's creative employment centres, for the AACC.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u284	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u285	One could talk for many hours about these provisions and do many analyses. But reading is one, that we have particular sensitivity, and we have a particular social policy for nursery and childcare stations. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis gave most of the money for vouchers, so that no child will be left outside children's facilities, and for the first time the workers in the Greek State were also beneficiaries. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, let me say on the amendment I tabled yesterday, with four other colleagues, Mr Economou, Mr Akuppi, Mr Constantinidis and Mr Cretan. We are calling for this amendment to be accepted by the Minister of State for a matter that tortures several OTE officials, who are now retired, on the subject of 'Structurings for members of the subsidiary insurance sector of OTE, OTE and OTE staff', with a general number of 586 and a specialist of 54. We tabled the amendment in order to give a definitive solution to a problem that is facing some ninety OTE members. Since they have been entitled to an unpaid leave for one day, they are referred to the granting of the supplementary pension to the 60th year of their age, contrary to their other colleagues who received their supplementary pension on the same day of retirement as the main pension.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u286	Finish, Mr. Spaniard.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u287	However, under Article 127 of Law No 4611/2019, the Government of New Demoaatic Republic gave the right to take over those unpaid days, but without specifying the date on which the supplementary pension was granted. This amendment clarifies, after recognition of the relevant provisions, the results to be retroactively running and supplementary pensions shall be granted from the date of granting and their main pension. I would ask that this amendment be accepted by the Minister in order to solve a problem, an absurdity for these pensioners and of course their families. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u288	Before giving Mr Barkas the floor to SYRIZA, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Skourletis asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u289	Mr President, I am using my right to speak. You saw just now that there was the incident with Mr. Famello. We didn't have sound on the connection. Mr Spankis just before at first was not sounded well, and we could hardly follow him. Of course, the system of Parliament is not the same as the system of teleworking which has collapsed. Let us admit that. I say this, however, not to tell colleagues to violate the health protocol and to come here, but to understand the special circumstances under which this debate is also taking place, but also the next ones. In this sense, I am incomprehensible with the Prime Minister's reference a few hours ago from the Step of the House, which said that the government will come here with a heavy legislative work. I don't understand. What are we trying now? Are we testing Parliament's democratic tolerances? Are we testing the world's democratic reflexes? In interpreting today's intervention of the Prime Minister, the day after tomorrow, there will be bills which will change our lives in the hands of the workers first of all. And what do you expect, that, because of the pandemic, these people should sit at home and the TVs express the constitutional right to their protest? So the government must understand the special circumstances and suspend all those bills that will create social unrest. There was a completely hypocritical move today. Nine women, with distances, were protested on Syntagma Square, when they were supposed to be the anniversary against violence, the fight against women's violence - on the wall of the House, and the police arrested them below. How are we going to go like this? How hypocrisy will there be? You will finally tell me that we are used to hypocrisy by the government. We saw it. Here we see that they are pleased, because no other political force will vote for the bill. However, they speak of a wider consensus. Okay, if that's how you see things! You are hammering, making tragic and negative comparisons with other countries, about your effectiveness in the issues of pandemic. However, I think that we need a seriousness about these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u290	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u291	You didn't put time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u292	Yeah, you told me five minutes, so I didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u293	There could be five of them! In any case, this reference to the middle layers should be stopped and how this government ultimately cares about them. The numbers are known. From 2012 to 2015, eight hundred Greek citizens left the middle-grade dance and compressed downwards. They were all those who lost their jobs, those whose businesses closed down. Losses are given. They were in annual income too. Over 5,000 euros lost the middle layers, the middle incomes, from previous governments, the first and second Memorandum governments. So here, when a budget comes which has disproved your forecasts, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and speaks of a two-digit recession, to come and say that you are defending the interests of the great majority of the Greek people is something that ultimately goes beyond every approach. I fear very much, because it is precisely because the government did not do what it had to do in the right time, that the dynamics of the recession will be much greater and more than 10% provided for in the budget will be a good memory. Things are much, much worse. And finally, something to restore the truth, because I see a very great comfort in being called inaccurate. Speaking before the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, he said there was not a single wage increase during the day of the SYRIZA government. But the first thing everyone knows is to raise the minimum wage from EUR 586 to EUR 650 and abolish the subordinate. It's a brave increase, brave! I wish you could do something like that now! Maybe we didn't count that many remission units. But, anyway, we'll be here. I think, however, that what the government should realise is that it cannot bring out bills that are given that it will provoke the democratic reflexes of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet. Let's move on to Mr. Barka from Preveza and SYRIZA. I would like to make it clear to Mr Skourletis that it is not Parliament's communication system. What Members of this House are associated with is the problem. After all, this problem has been said in the Conference of Presidents and we have been clarified by the President-in-Office. Does Mr. Barkas hear us? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u295	Mr President, good evening to everyone and everyone. I'm sorry about the connection difficulty. I have to tell you, Mr President, that the Members are not responsible. The Members are in their area and are trying to connect with the link, anyway, that the House sends them. But there is a serious problem with the House, and I would also like, Mr President, to highlight what the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Panos Skourletis, has said. The position of Members, Mr President, is the Greek Parliament. We all realise that, because of the special circumstances, there must be no crowding and there must be no multitude of Members in the Chamber. However, this possibility of the Member speaking in the House, of transferring the problems of the people in his area to the Greek Parliament is a constitutional right and cannot in any way be removed. So I think we could in a way, either by expanding...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u296	I'm the one who asked Mr. Famello to come down from the office to talk, make it easier for him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u297	Well done, Mr President, for you to assist in the agony of Members. However, we must demand that all Members be in Parliament's Chamber and that they can make their speeches as they should and not through computers and through the difficulties that arise because of the conditions of the internet or the connection with the House. Anyway, I would like to start my speech by referring to the international day against the violence of women. It's a very important day. In my opinion, it is a day-to-day anxiety, a day-to-day battle which should be given by all and all, but above all by all against the violence of women. Unfortunately, our country has, in recent years, been growing in the face of violence against women, whether they are brought to the death of women, or tents of violence and beatings. So I think that our battle is not just today, but it must be daily against this phenomenon. Also, Mr President, this is the day of the National Resistance today. That's how it's established. It is the day of Gorgopotamos, the blasting of the Gorgopotamos bridge, an act that is recognized by all the world, by all those who participated in World War II as an act that, if you like, helped to defeat the Germans, the Nazi occupation, and I think it should be mentioned. Mr President, today's debate is under the sound, under the voice of a macabre arithmetic, of which three ministers of government have made use. The first Minister is Mr. Gerapitris. Mr Gerapetti, Mr President, said that those who enter the ICM, because that is the rate, half of them, are dying. I mean, what was Mr. Gerapetti doing in essence? He made an announcement of the deaths of people who are currently in intensive care units and give the battle not only to them, but also to doctors who fight all over Greece to keep these people alive. So I think that Mr Gerapetti should withdraw his announcement. Of course, the situation has become worse because Mr Mitsotakis today from a Stepping-up House said that he also made use of the same phrase and that this is the case. So I think the government has lost the booze. The second sound, Mr President, is Mr Georgiadis, the Minister for Development, who celebrates - I imagine the New Democracy Parliamentary Group together, as they vote for the bills brought to Parliament by the Government - on the fact that we have 12 times less deaths than a European Union country. So I, Mr President, ask all Greeks and Greek women not to participate in this fair by Mr Georgiadis. May Mr Georgiadis be isolated or, if you like, celebrate with the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. For festivities, unfortunately, we cannot do it. Fortunately there have been some voices - and I would like to say that, Mr President - of the government which put Mr Georgiadis in his place. Her third party is Mr. Kontozamanis, who said what? He said we can't prescribe the COVID tests for the country's population, because this thing will lead to a prescription body by doctors. As the people, Mr President, are not going to and are not paying the tests from their pockets in private centres, because the government is absent from the tests. It does not do the tests which it should have done to the population of the country, and that is why we have the third presence of Mr Kontozamanis. All three of these, then, Ministers, Mr President, like others' failures, did not make a stand against their government. Mr President, Mr Mitsotakis himself, who recognised the inability of the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, to manage the second wave of pandemic. Mr Mitsotakis, Mr President, on 25 May he announced through a written message on Twitter that, if he hit the second wave of our country, we will be more ready, we are more trained in personal protective measures. These are Mr. Mitsotakis' writings. And we have reached the point at the moment Greece, our country, being divided into the middle. From Larissa and on the system it is very difficult to manage the COVID incidents. Today we have a terrible increase in intertwined people, who are unfortunately in intensive care units, and the government has lifted its hands up. The second perspective of today's debate on the bill, Mr President, is the Pissaridis report. The government is working on pandemic, working on the second wave of pandemic, working on the fear of people because of the impotence of the government to manage the pandemic blow. And what's he doing? Because it cannot pass on what it wants and vote on in the Greek Parliament and is aware of the tension it will create in the layers of Greek society, it places a group of experts, led by Mr Pissaridis, to propose - and the government will obviously meet its needs and accept the Pissaridis proposals - the exercise of an extreme neoliberal policy in our country. It is a Memorandum called the Pissaridis Exhibition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u298	And finish, Mr. Barca.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u299	Mr President, give me some time, because the connection is difficult and we cannot talk in this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u300	You said it, you said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u301	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative was asked, because we are opposed to a reduction in insurance contributions. Because, in our view, it favours only the large-industrialists in the country, those who in the crisis have increased their profits and the government is obviously defending them. He also wondered why we, Mr President, did not increase the minimum wage. So let me remind the Members of the New Democracy that SYRIZA increased the minimum wage by 11 percentage points. From EUR 586 - as the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has rightly said - he took him to EUR 650. We, Mr President, were also committed to the Greek people that the second increase and the raising of the minimum wage to EUR 750 would be the first thing we would do after the July elections. But, Mr President, I would like to remind you of a lie, with which the candidates of the New Democracy were elected MPs, and obviously the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy also used it. The truth agreement, Mr President, of the New Democracy, said that in 2019 the New Democracy would increase the minimum wage to twice the growth of the country. It was - if you remember - then 4% growth every year. That's never happened. Not only does the minimum wage increase, but the New Democracy comes and reduces the minimum wage. And how does he do it, Mr. President? By legislating, within the pandemic, people work without being paid. Mr. Brutsis has a first, which is a global first. It is the one who legislates twice in a decade, who avenges the people of work in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u302	And close, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u303	I'll be done. Mr President, I would like to end this: I had the luck of leading the OAS as the State Secretary for Labour at the last time in the governance of SYRIZA. The OAED, Mr President, if you remember well, was an organisation that carried out training programmes, of course in cooperation with other organisations. In other words, it financed training programmes. Why is Mr Brutsis taking this possibility from the OAED at the moment? Because Mr Brutsis, Mr President, has created the so-called'scourge'. What's he done? He wanted to share money in six training centres for people in New Democracy, one of whom was a candidate for MEPs. We all know what it was, and that is why the New Democracy is trying to weaken the role of the OAED. The OAED's role was in SYRIZA's government strong. The New Democracy is trying to disorganize it. This, in our view, must fall into the void.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u304	Hang up, Mr. Barca, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u305	Mr President, I shall end by saying this: the role of Members is the Greek Parliament, we must be there and speak. I think that the Conference of Presidents should consider once again the possibility for Members to come to Parliament. We can not have a crowd, not all of us together, not talk through computers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u306	I promise you it will be discussed. Be well. The Minister has the floor. Is that the amendment, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u307	Mr President, I have asked for the floor - and I thank you very much - because I have to reply to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman for what he has said. Secondly, I would like to give some clarification and, thirdly, to refer to the Members' amendments and what is being accepted. So I want to start by saying that the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman fell for the most part on a large political slip. The way in which it has been placed and what he has said cannot be characterized differently from one phrase: a monument of authoritarianity. An autocracy that constantly proves to be in SYRIZA's DNA. Watch what he said. He practically threatened the government that it was forbidden and never dared to take legislative initiatives. Because if she gets them, she'll be against the democratic feeling in this period, so she shouldn't legislate. So we respond to you, Mr Skourletis, and to you and to Syriza, that we will also take initiatives, because that is why the Greek people have chosen us. A year ago, he turned your back on you. And, when we say Greek people, we also mean the workers you invoke, and the unemployed, who have primarily deceived in 2014 and 2015. And four and a half years when you were government, you deceived them many times. These people turned your back on you and voted against you. Today, one year later, you invoke them, but look at the polls. They're on your side. They won't listen to you. What you're saying is not unbelievable, because it's air cut. They're non-scientific approaches, they're air words. You keep working on a logic of sharing money from everywhere, you feed everything, you promise everything, you share money. An unprecedented, unscientific, unscientific bid. You said the relentless, which I heard just before in your position. You said the incredible - I would say very much - about the minimum wage - 'to raise wages to reduce or eliminate the recession'. Do you realize what you said? Do you realize, Mr. Skourletis, what did you say? To increase the wages, to reduce the recession, to eliminate it. And Mrs. Fotou moves her head, accepts it. Come on, let's get to know each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u308	No, no dialogue, so we can finish, Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u309	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u310	Mrs. Fotio, please. No dialogue. You don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u311	The first year students at the University of Economics hear this, they hear the public debate of the House and they really wonder if there are MPs who believe these things. Because, if that were the case, you'd just take the Nobel Prize. But I don't want to say it. You got this message from the Greek people last year in the elections and you continue to take it with your inadmissibility. I would like to brief the House on the minimum wage and on the basis of what Mr Barkas and the very recent Minister of Labour said before, who was also a State Secretary for Labour. Well, let everyone know. The way, Mr President, we decided - and this is interesting - how the minimum wage is being shaped was one way in the wrong direction. There were five more than five down and just - very every year, a framework agreed by the social partners, but without scientific establishment and support. In 2013, as Minister, I spent a lot of time and was first formed in Greece by Law 4172/2013; the Brutsis Act and the Vrutsi Act -, which for the first time changed the past and formed a new mechanism under which the minimum wage in Greece will be calculated. What changed that law? This law for the first time comes the government and asks - over and above the various stages - for the first time the most official, reliable institutional economic operators in the country, KEPE, IOBE, the Greek Statistical Office, the Bank of Greece, the social partners to say what the possibility of increasing the minimum wage is, however, documented, combined and according to the economic stagnation. Because, if this balance is disturbed, it will also undermine workers and businesses and the economy in general. And it did become the law of the state. I would remind you that when I brought this law, SYRIZA was withdrawn. He's out. The House must remember these things historically. He went to the Constitution, where Mr. Skourletis and the SYRIZA team were leading. Remember 2013-2014. They said the first law to change when it's government will be the Brutsi Act for the minimum wage. What happened, Mr President, historically? SYRIZA became government, did not touch the minimum wage at all, while the law stated that from 1st to 1st-2017 it must enter into operation and the minimum wage increased, did not harm it. And in 2019 they come to the House in a celebratory manner and announce the operation of the Brutsi Law on minimum wages. And on the basis of this law, the increase for the minimum wage went down. There's a little shame in that, isn't there? Isn't there a little shame there in SYRIZA, lying so much all the time?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u312	Please. He didn't interrupt you. He heard you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u313	We won't hear all the lies in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u314	Unfortunately, this is the truth for SYRIZA. SYRIZA is always there, lying, hypocrisy, thinking he's making fun of the world, thinking it has something to do with a political side that can't be placed. You know we'll be here and you'll get the answers you need, because you've been running for four and a half years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u315	Let's go to the amendment. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Please, Mr. Femmelle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u316	I'm moving on with a clarification. A moment ago KINAL, Michalis Katrinis, was wondering why we remove doctors and dentists from this account. No, Mr. Catherine didn't see it well. With the legislation that exists, it's improved and expanded to everyone. I'm saying this to avoid such misunderstandings. I should like to close by the amendment tabled by the Members of the New Democracy, Mr Spanakis, Mr Akiupis, Mr Cretan, Mr Constantinidis and Mr Vassilis Economou. It's number 586/54. This amendment is accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, too. Three o'clock is Mr. Spanakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u318	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u319	No, Mrs. Fotio. The parliamentary representative only, for a minute. You won't fool me now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u320	I won't fool you. I'm using more than my third option.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u321	But you've got a lot of minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u322	Mr. Brutsi, I can honestly introduce you to some books for the first year of economics.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u323	Your mask, Mr. Skourlet. If you're talking underneath, wear your mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u324	Let me wear my mask. Do you want me to go upstairs?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u325	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u326	I'm coming up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u327	Now for a minute, come here, we're more late.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u328	The Prime Minister didn't wear his mask here. And he spoke three times. Or we'll have a same attitude for all...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u329	Don't make a big deal of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u330	But you were not in the Bureau, so I am not counting on you. Mr Brutsis, I say, I recommend to you some writings about the first year of economics, where you will see that a key parameter for economic recovery and growth is active demand and available income, that is, that you have beaten as the champions of precise austerity policies from 2010 to 2015. And especially you, in the most authoritarian way, in one day, with a law, with an article, have abolished, ignoring the social partners, the minimum wage! Was there some kind of endurance study? What did the social partners tell you then? The exact opposite. Because we were put forward proposals like this before we took the government and after we took the government. But, in any case, these are fine letters, they are perceptions that characterize your space. As to what you said about authoritarianism, do you know what authoritarianism is? When the world compresses and somehow wants to exercise its constitutional right and you come by stepping on the health crisis, to carry out an irreversible, anti-social legislative work. So where did you see the authoritarian? It's your challenge. Your challenge towards the democratic morality that should govern all the groups here. To tell us you're going to legislate? Of course, you can legislate. No one will forbid you. But you will also bear the corresponding costs, political and social. You're not doing well. You're out of control at the pandemic. He'll get away from you in the other direction. And then we'll see who reads the polls well. Look at one last night. Where were you in April and where you are now. He's got a lot of it all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u331	Thank you very much, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u332	I heard Mr. Skourlet. I just want to say he didn't say anything about the minimum wage. L.4172/2013, which has been institutionalised for my day as Minister, remains the same today for four and a half years, has not changed him. And, indeed, they applied him and used him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u333	The reason for Mr Vassiliade, from the beautiful Pella and the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting is really special, even with regard to parliamentary time. The country is once again under increased restrictions. The national economy is affected, as is the real economy, whether it is specific sectors, individual companies or workers. In spite of all the difficulties, the draft law we are called upon to vote on today has a strong social character and comes to give a hand to the Greek family. Since the outbreak of pandemic, the government has made the political decision to protect and maintain jobs as a priority. This decision is justified, as today our country, despite the timeless sufferings of the Greek economy, has the lowest job losses in Europe, and this performance is recognised by the European Commission's report, which positively assesses the practices in the labour market. The reason why our country has achieved these results is that the government has remained faithful to the principles and values of New Democracy and has implemented the government's programme, despite the adverse circumstances. He resisted the temptation of uncontrolled political benefits and closed his ears to the voices of populism, which were talking about sharing money, as if any benefits the state would not ask for in future as taxes. You're talking, ladies and gentlemen of the Police Department, about raising the minimum wage. In fact, you are presenting it as a proposal of a social nature. But the possible increase in minimum wages in the mid-term, uncertainty, recession and job suspension for thousands of companies would bring either redundancies or an increase in black labour. Recruitment will not result from the increase in wages, but from the reduction in insurance contributions, i.e. from the reduction in the cost of the employer, which does this draft law and was the pre-election commitment of the Prime Minister. In addition, the OAED is being strengthened in the direction that the government and the new administration have taken the first place, that is to say, to become an employment agency rather than an unemployment agency, which will simply manage the payment of allowances, as SYRIZA would like, and as he has done in the years of his administration. The unemployed want jobs, not allowances, and the New Democracy wants well-paid workers and employers free to innovate, not state-focused unemployed armies. Other provisions support one single scientific disciplines that mainly act as freelance professionals, such as lawyers, accountants, engineers and others, as the Minister said a moment ago. They are also protected by vulnerable social groups, such as poor women and homeless people, to which the minimum guaranteed income extends. The child benefit is continued and increased and the child's protection is strengthened by the provisions on adoption and assumption. The operating framework of Creative Employment Centres for Children and Persons with Disabilities shall be reviewed and ordered between public and private CPIs. Early diagnosis, for which the scientific community agrees that it is extremely important for early intervention, especially in neurological disabilities, also applies to nurseries. So, on this point, let me come back, Minister, to the point that I have put to you and my question about the injustice of family members who take care of people with serious disabilities to the right of early exit. On the basis of the current framework, provisions concerning civil servants are more favourable to those concerning private workers, since the latter need seven and a half thousand brands and have completed the sixty-second year of their age to retire. This is another failure of the Katrugalo law, which I think we need to correct. Mr President, the long-term effects of pandemic and successive restrictive measures have disproportionately caused a major problem in many regions of the country and in different sectors of the economy. In Pella, for example, which, unfortunately, was hit more badly than any other regional unit in the country, which has been and has been under restrictions for a very long time, they have closed down prematurely several units, which have been employing a large number of seasonal workers before they can fill out the necessary 100 equivalents for the unemployment benefit. I would ask you, Minister, to see the question of the possible reduction of this figure from a hundred to fifty, and the insurance and medical coverage of these people or, alternatively, even a special allowance. Furthermore, the success of the exceptional procedure implemented this year with regard to the transfer of land workers from third countries requires that it be permanently established and simplified even more. There's room for it. Finally, an issue that concerns the whole territory is that of temporary employment companies, which lend staff to businesses. With the current framework, therefore, the firms affected cannot be mobilised for the personnel borrowed, nor can they be included in the programmes for the financial support of the regions. I would ask you, Minister, to see this case of injustice. Thank you, Mr President, and I call on the House to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u335	Thank you very much, Mr Vassiliou, and for the time being, as we have gone too far. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u336	Mr President, the government is desperately trying to convince the people that, because of the pandemic, and not because the European Union and the Association of Greek Industrialists are imposing it, in order to get out of the new capitalist crisis, it must learn to live with the slightest, as on its own responsibility it must learn to live or die, to learn to work as a slave, from sun to sun, persuasive, terrified and awk. The government, i.e. minimum benefits for the people and maximum profits for the business groups, are guaranteed. That is its ideological sign, and that is why it rejects the JRC's amendments on measures to relieve the people's families. In these designs, the provisions of the articles are integrated in relation to the structures of the CSFs and the CSFs. Nowhere does their support and the development of young people for the full-scale psychotic development of children, without income criteria and contributions from parents, come free of charge, with full funding and staffing with permanent staff. On the other hand, the blockade of tens of thousands of children from the structures continues, shrinks them and reduces them consciously, on the other hand strengthening private ones, following the policy of all the previous governments. And all this is happening in conditions of economic and health crisis, which are deeply affecting the people's families. The need now is to establish new structures, to provide adequate staff and to permanentize the two and a half thousand contractors. Approximately four hundred and twenty-four CIDs and seventy-five ADIs are not sufficient to cover all needs. This year, applications for a position in the CFPs through the programme recorded a significant increase, above that of last year by 72%. What was the result? Mothers who met the criteria and had high molecules due to low income, because they are three or tents did not receive vouchers to register their children in structures. Instead of funding allocated to support public structures in Greece and in each municipality, private subsidies are chosen. Not to say how vouchers in practice amplify private CSRs and children's stations. For the JRC, the psychosomatic development of children must be the sole responsibility of the State, with a free system of provision of high quality services and not with programmes that have an end date and with insecurity workers, to operate in a single context, which is universally subordinate to a common administrative form, such as, for example, the Ministry of Education or even direct to the services of the municipalities, in order to overcome the current practice, where the structures are administratively subject to three different forms of local administration: municipality, legal persons of public law of the municipality, legal persons of private law of the municipality. This is the only way to ensure an elementary unified educational planning and programme, with stable teams of trainers in each structure, full staff with skills considered necessary. Articles 1 and 2 on CIDs and CIDs provide for arrangements that cause problems, rather than solve them. First, terms, conditions, technical specifications and equipment relating to the operation of the CIDs are not laid down in this Law, but are entrusted to a joint ministerial decision. In other words, they will be changed in line with the objectives of each government. Secondly, provision is made for the eviction of municipal CIDs and CIDs - AEOs from school buildings, without ensuring modern, operational and secure building infrastructures, covering all needs. It is the responsibility of the State to ensure such infrastructures that they fulfil their pedagogical role. We are of the opinion that the child who monitors the extended school programme together with the full-day program must obviously not stay in the same space and for the CPVO, supplementing over 12 hours in the same space. But how does the government solve it? It throws the ball at the municipalities, to get the snake out of the hole, it loads them with an extra task, under the pretext of solving urban problems, depriving them of its responsibility for a single design, financing and strengthening of these structures with the sole responsibility of the state. The exceptional use of school buildings by the CIPs will create even greater problems, because the municipalities - with poor and increasingly reduced funding - are objectively unable to respond to an extra task. Besides, it is a well-known problem with kindergartens and kindergartens, as is the inertia of the school committees, which, because of sub-financing, cannot cover either the maintenance or the operation of schools. CSRs are not about the third age, which she's anyway being deceived. The operation of the CIDs comes after the school program. Of course they are not part of the school programme, but it concerns pupils and structures of a pedagogical nature. While you fly out of school buildings the municipal CDIs, at the same time you provide school rooms and other infrastructure to private CDIs, such as Piraeus or non-governmental organisations. In other words, they are allowed for private structures rather than municipal structures. For the JRC anyway, education, health, welfare and social structures as a whole should be the sole responsibility of the state. Once this is the case, it makes sense that part of the municipal structures will lead to closure, thousands of children being thrown out of them, with lofty redundancies of workers. Who's going to benefit? Private structures. And while you fly out of school buildings, you're running two yards and two stations. You say exceptionally the use of the school space from the JAPDs, but at the same time you grant school rooms to other structures. With electronic application or consolidation of the licensing and operating rules, we do not disagree, Mr President. Electronic recording to better illustrate the arrivals and withdrawals of the beneficiaries, which are necessary, may, however, be used for further sub-financing of the structures. So we're sceptical. We call on workers in social structures to take a massive part in tomorrow's strike, setting at the forefront their urgent claims for the protection of their health, life and rights. The message is clear: The fight is not postponed, does not enter quarantine, now is the time to strengthen the struggle. Now - and finally with this, Mr President - in relation to the school meal amendment we will vote 'at present' because this amendment confers the programme on private individuals. The provision of meals is not universal in all units and at all levels of education. The receipt of meals is charged to teachers who have an extra duty outside their responsibilities. In addition, there is no provision for the continuation of the programme in a period of suspension of the operation of the schools. We propose the immediate extension of the programme to all schools and to all pupils, with the required amount of state funding, the establishment of a quarantine programme across the school population with state responsibility and funding. Under the current conditions of suspension of schools, the Government and the Ministry must take all necessary measures to ensure that families who have a direct need to supply their daily meals, while respecting the necessary protection measures, ensure the necessary catering facilities by hiring bankers and cleaning staff and, finally, create a single public body that has full responsibility for the preparation and implementation of such important programmes, such as...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u337	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u339	He said "and finally", Mr President, and you interrupt him? That's wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u340	Is that what you've been up to, Mr. Katasotis? Don't get caught by nothing. Please. Mr Zisesis Jikalaya has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr President. Regarding today's important bill we are discussing, the Opposition, but in particular the Civic Opposition, has demonstrated timeless ruthlessness, well-known psalmology and unspeakable micropsy. I want to say with this that it was again 2012 to 2015, when Mr Brutsi was again, when he had brought the important institution 'ATLAS', which, if the SYRIZA government had not intervened, would have been awarded digital pensions for three years. Again, however, digital pensions are going on with great effort and it is certain that one after another the funds are also part of it, perhaps in a very short time, perhaps at the end of 2021, all the funds will provide digital pensions. As far as outstanding pensions are concerned, which has been a great deal of talk about, a part of society is really afflicted. The suffering of citizens is due to the fact that in 2016, under the well-known Katorugalou law, we went far behind. The insurance funds had actually downloaded pencils, accumulated files, so we reached our own government with a great deal of effort, which was to strengthen and redistribute staff. We are moving forward and believe that, at the rate of thirteen and fifteen thousand pensions we have every month, in one year from today, we will also resolve this issue. The bill has two directions. On the question of insurance contributions, we have continued our efforts, with the reduction from 46.6% to 40.6%. We are now putting it down further, but that does not mean under any circumstances that we are underestimating the role of the OAED. We believe in the strategic role of the Labour Force Agency over time. As a liberal centre-right party, we are mainly strengthening the work, but when we know how many unemployed there are and how many socially vulnerable groups - we are bringing this bill - we are doing this. In this bill some of the main points I would like to make are as follows: in terms of welfare, we now consider that it should not be a passive mechanism for awarding benefits. To the minimum guaranteed income we are integrating women victims of violence for the first time, and today we have the world day of protection of women who have suffered violence. We incorporate the homeless, for whom we are looking to subsidise their rents for twenty-four months, construction costs, psychosocial support services, effort to integrate into the labour market, training, non-wage coverage and integration into second-rate school programmes. As far as the contractor of the family is concerned, we believe that families with a biological disability child should have the right to adoption or assumption. On the issue of CSRs and CSRs - ACFs, this government's interest is apparent from the fact that last year we more than doubled the number of CSRs and almost doubled the number of CSRs - ACFs. We take care of this draft law on the single framework for their operation, the equal access of children, arrangements for the number of beneficiaries by structure, spaces, technical specifications, equipment, staffing and qualifications, and we take care to check how they operate. We're building a digital platform for uninsured over-ages. We are giving the reasonable extension needed for the EUR 2 000 birth allowance. We're making the National Juvenile Register for Admission and Adoption. We know the suffering in which all the couples had the misfortune not to have a child. We implement our election commitment: no child without a nursery. We have overcover in vouchers on this field. We believe in school meals and that is why we have introduced them since September. We are taking special measures for the over-age care units and for the patient in time. Regarding allowances: At the minimum guaranteed income we add 300 euros to every person in need this year, 100 euros for the first child and 50 euros for the second child. About immigrants: We transfer the necessity of five years of tax returns to twelve, to get the child's and housing allowance. The benefit of mountain and less-favoured areas the previous government had interrupted it in 2017. We paid it in 2018 and by the end of the year they will get for 2019 and 2020. We see to it that the benefits of a child, a housing and a minimum guaranteed income for these categories are conditional on schooling, because we consider it very important that there should be a relationship with the Greek society. We are strengthening the structures of the welfare centres, ensuring that five hundred temporary staff are recruited. For the first time, we are introducing the staff assistant to the AMEOs. We take care of the inconsistency of the pro-active benefits, such as the drawing up of uninsured over-ages, the social solidarity allowance of uninsured over-aged people and the benefit of homogenous refugees. We see to it that there is compensation for the two-day and day-care centres, so that there are over three and a half thousand beneficiaries of this aid. I will close my report by saying that the Ministry of Labour has accepted several important amendments. I will only refer to a very important one, the one concerning the heating allowance. In the region of Western Macedonia, the most continental of Greece and the only one not from the sea, the same of course applies to my region of Kastoria, a very important problem has always been cold and heating. So our government comes and introduces the heating allowance not only for oil, as it has so far been, but for all fuels, particularly wood, which we are interested in, pelts, gas and liquid gas. And not only that, we abolish the four known zones, which were often unfair...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u342	And hang up with this, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u343	That's right, Mr. President. I'm hanging up with this. The subsidy will be based on the data available from the National Meteorological Service, whenever we will have families and households in mountain areas that will receive 700 euros for heating, something that never happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, too. The floor is held by Ms. Hara (Harula) Kafataris from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today has a double symbolism. Firstly, because at world level, as others have mentioned, and the Prime Minister and the Heads of the parties and many colleagues in their positions, 25 November is the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women and, secondly, because for our country it is the anniversary of the Gogopotamos, it is the day that was established for the national resistance of our people against the Germans. I shall refer to the first part, which deals with violence against women, and I shall say that unfortunately we must not just talk about that one day, because it is a constant struggle to eliminate violence against women, where the state has a particular responsibility. We, as SYRIZA, ratified the Istanbul Convention in the House after years, which, while it had passed, was ratified by law, and did the right thing. Secondly and very importantly - because I am referring to the state and its responsibilities - we were the ones who, with the EKF of 23 April 2019, founded in the Greek Police a Special Department for the Response of Infamily Violence. Today, although these final sections were completed in November 2019 - I have to say it - they are failing in the sense that, beyond the collection of statistics - they are not going to go beyond the collection of statistics - they are not going to go to the extent that they have to deal with this issue, when the people, the Greeks and the Greek police are not in touch with the victims themselves. The state, as the Prime Minister today pointed out, Mr. Mitsotakis, the Minister for Civil Protection, takes concrete measures, serve these final departments of domestic violence, relieve Greeks and Greek police officers who serve and deal with this very serious issue. It is not enough to hire only border guards, announced by the government, and there have been several recruitments at this time in the Greek Police outside SAP - I will stress it - but these sections must also be served if the government really wants to show that, with its action, it is facing this serious social issue. Also, ladies and gentlemen, today the Pissaridis Committee was published and the conclusion was made public. The committee's basic feature is that of our bill and it has something to do with the Ministry of Labour: the privatisation of subsidiary insurance. Redistributive to date, capitalizing on the basis of the committee's proposals, the objectives that the government has announced, I must say, and from an election point of view, which sees private companies in public social security. Because subsidiary insurance is public social security. Here, of course, I will say that the Prime Minister - I remember this very well - when he took over the leadership of the New Democracy, in his virgin position in the House, had referred to the private pillar, in other words, to this neoliberal ideal of the New Democracy for individuals and to privatise the insurance system. So you come with the bill that we are debating today and you are literally setting the ground for the implementation of the Pissaridis project and in the area of social security. You speak and celebrate, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the reduction of contributions and the reduction of non-wage costs, while it is proven in practice, while presenting it with a gold wrapping - as you are accustomed to all your anti-government and anti-social arrangements in a way that will help the worker to get something more and that companies will benefit. Can this mean for a worker specifically EUR 2.8 to EUR 14 per month an extra salary or a sum of EUR 4.1 to EUR 21, but basically who is the loser in it? The loser, first of all, is the OAED himself, who in this way actually leads to closure. We talked about the minimum wage, we also heard your Minister, we heard you, Mr Brutsi, before. I will not say much, but I will say that the minimum wage has been raised by the SYRIZA government. That's a reality. Whatever you say, say it, but the reality is this, and that's what the workers, who saw the minimum wage rise, have experienced. Now, from there on, what needs to be done right now, if you really want to support small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, is to give a non-refundable advance on the small and medium-sized enterprises that are narrow. One out of three, they say their organs, chambers, GSE, after Lockdown, this peculiar situation we face with the pandemic, will not open. This will be essential support for small and medium-sized enterprises. And for the workers, now raise the minimum wage as it had been legislated by the SYRIZA Government, which made the first increase to 650 euros. And now and in 2020 and in 2021 to raise it. You will practically show your interest, because it has been proved that when you lower the minimum wage or reduce the employee's wage, the result is negative. We have an example in the government of Samara, which has done so. Unemployment has not declined, unlike your policy, unemployment has risen. Gentlemen of the government, in the midst of this unprecedented state of affairs that we are facing, promote a bill on labour and create acidification, I would say. Under the pretext of pandemic and of cultivating fear that you are really cultivating in the world, you are currently moving on to the implementation of your neoliberal programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u346	Please complete, Mrs. Kafantari.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u347	I would like your tolerance for two minutes, please, Mr President. Legislation as if we were under normal conditions. However, your policy, on the occasion of and on the pandemic, leads to further poverty in society. I remind you of two numbers. First of all, you're talking about welfare. We received welfare with 789 million and in 2019 3.5 billion. That's evidence. In addition, social inequalities declined between 2015 and 2019. The risk of household poverty has also been reduced. We come with a proposal to do with four important amendments. The amendments concern emergency income, with the full gift of Christmas, which must pay the state the difference to everyone if you want to support society. Also, with free electricity, water, natural gas, internet, and of course very important that we do not have a cut in electricity supply. All this on the day of the National Resistance. I tell you that the Greek people resisted the Germans and Gorgopotamos is a symbol of united national resistance. The Greek people will resist both these policies and the implementation of the Pissaridis project, which you have presented today. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u348	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kafantari. And to close, as usual, with Seraeus, Mr. Constantine Bubas from the Greek Solution. Until Mr Bubas comes to Stepma, I inform the special speakers and the rapporteurs who want to speak - all you want, from what I have been informed - that your time will be five minutes. We won't get away, because the employees must leave too. There's a ban at 21:00. We won't get away at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u349	But we've already gotten away.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u350	The Minister, who you think is not a working father, accepts not to speak of this reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u351	But it is not at the expense of discussing the articles, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u352	It will be shown in the vote, Mr Katatotis. It's okay. If we get the articles one - one, do you know how much they are? I think you know, it's sixty-seven. Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Mr President. Can I get "VAT", as we say, where is the denology, so that I can finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u354	No, you won't get "VAT". You'll be done in seven minutes so people can leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u355	If we go to the minimum wage line, I won't be able to talk at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u356	You're capable of it in seven minutes. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u357	I will use a word because of the global day against women's violence today, violence to prevent violence. Because, if you see, linguists have another etymology. It is the good side of the word 'violence', although the information is a sinful one. Violence also means rush, as in our National Anthem, which says "measuring the earth". So accelerating, in order to mitigate violence, because there is daily - I will use this Latin word - in the neighborhoods. We have thirty-three thousand cases of domestic violence in the last decade, as statistics tell the Greek Police and the general slogan that the services say: "We are your voice, we are next to you." But many women don't talk. There's a silence. Indeed, in April, because of the quarantine, we had an increase in the incidence of domestic violence, at least in the calls made. That's because of the day. And something needs to be done, if we want violence as a study, as an acceleration to have another etymology, which is an Indian root. Violently, then, to prevent violence in women. Now, the news is that we are also talking a little about the issue of the war we have with the invisible enemy. Because I will agree with what SYRIZA's gentlemen have said. I heard Mr. Famello say it too. Yeah, we're not selling out during the war period because we have public property. And since we are talking about vulnerable groups, it must be said that vulnerable groups will be the ones who will be fired in Kozani by liberating or selling LARCO to e-statement in Cartvaji, Skopje - and I have proved this with evidence - and they will be unemployed. Unemployed will also be the ones who will be fired from Larymna. The unemployed will be left with many industries and crafts that have been closed down, with these programmes. PPC is also privatised and the collector companies are depopulated. They are vulnerable and they are also waiting to be retired for two years, they are vulnerable to the farmers who are calling the OGA, at least in Thessaloniki - and they are easier to win LOTO than to take a line - and no one is answering them. The vulnerable groups are also those who are waiting to pass a committee that takes them out with 68% or 70% disability, but who do not receive pension and join the grasses and the red tape. We have to understand that they are also vulnerable to the need for their employer to sign them the dismissal in order to get out of the Unemployment Fund, because they will get more from the Unemployment Fund than they receive a monthly salary. All of these with numbers do not describe them well, because in Greece there is also so-called'spiritual unemployment'. In other words, someone works two hours a day, at the 'ladder' or ten hours, if he will work a week, with 300 euros and is considered an employee. This is how we reduce, at least statistically, the unemployment figures. So these are the vulnerable groups. The Greek Solution and the MP and my fellow Member, Mrs Alexopoulou, proposed to you for a disability register and thankfully accepted it. There's got to be a homeless record. We don't know how many homeless people there are in Greece. There has been a report by the United Nations since 2015 - which I will present in the Minutes - on an official website, on ifeimerida.gr, which says Athens is in the fifteen cities of the world with most homeless people. We don't know yet how many homeless we have in the country. So can we implement a social policy when we do not yet know how many homeless we have? It is said that we have twenty thousand homeless people in Greece. The nine thousand - and more - live in Athens. The day before yesterday, a homeless man, Greek please, died in Volos. There was no focus to host him because the local authority did not get involved. Make a service, see with local government how many homeless there are, how many portions of food there are in social agglomerations and draw a conclusion, have a tool in your hands, so you know how many homeless we have in Greece. I should like not to talk about the pandemic, because I am neither a phosphite - I said it next time - nor a rosary. But if you study the history of medicine, the second and possibly the third wave will come, because the virus is being reinforced. This is also verified by the epidemic professor, Mr Triantafylides. I can hear Mr. Kikilia saying that we are at a better fate than the Balkan countries. Clearly! Sophia six degrees temperature, with a humidity of 80%. Belgrade seven points, Zagreb six points. As long as the weather lasts - we are hanged by the lips of meteorologists, not only by the lips of epidemiologists - and the influenza virus and any virus that potates the helitra, the virus capsule and you know it. So it's not unprecedented. I'm a member of the Thracian Intergroup. Because Mrs Bakoyannis forbids Parliament to be TV-covered, listen, resident of Thrace and Eastern Macedonia, because as a journalist and as a Member I accept thousands of calls that you are not informed of what is decided in Thrace's intergroup. That is why I am taking this opportunity, from the Step forward, to inform the inhabitants of Rhodope, Evros, Xanthi, Kavala and Drama that there is no transmission from the channel, because Mrs Bakoyannis said, so as not to be sparked off. Is that where we hide national secrets? And since Mr. Loverdos is not here, I would like to say that we as Greek Solution objected to the meeting held by Mrs. Bakoyannis at the end of September with Mr. Hussein Baltaji, the President of the Association of Western Thrace Sciences, controlled by an Ankara NGO. Mrs Pervin Hirula, to whom Mr. Velopoulos referred, reacted in a letter in the English-language version of "Kathimerini" by Mrs. Sissy Alonistiotou, which says that the Pomac must learn their history to understand who they are, to stop this black propaganda of Turkey. She's been hurt by Mrs. Pervin Hirula, who reacts because, she says, we can be identified nationally. And does the House accept in its parliamentary committee that it is officially called a Turkish minority, as Mrs Pervin Hirula says? Are we going well? We're opening Haelo's amusement? Will we open up the violation of the Treaty of Lausanne, where the minority is Muslim and make it Turkish? And does she accept it as an official committee? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Mr Karaiskos says these in articles that I read, like my fellow doctor, Mr Eleftherakis, tells me to highlight the Folklore Museum of Pomac. We proposed it to the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Education, the Intergroup Committee of Thrace on 14 October. We also said about the dictionary released by Mr Emphietzoglou, because pomegranate is dialect, it is wild. Agrianes learn their story to know who they are, who they will be tomorrow and stop this Turkish propaganda, because the Pomacians are a Thracian race and have nothing to do with the Turks.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u358	Finish, Mr. Booba.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u359	I shall conclude, Mr President. It's annoying, as it's bothering something else. It's annoying Suleiman Majir, Irfan Mollah at the Dumotich.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u360	You're out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u361	I shall conclude, Mr President. These are things we need to be careful about, because we will open major wounds in Thrace. That's why the Greek Solution reacts, but we can't hear it, because it's not TV-covered and we're sweating the record. Thrace wants a lot of attention. I'm closing, Mr. President. The police imposed 3,000 fines on Mr. Panagiotis Zeisidis. He's the president of the Triangle Farm Association in Fair, where they protested about the bank that closed down. If that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u362	Mr President, if possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u363	Don't complain, Mr. Comrade. The Greek people need to know that, don't they? Why are they protesting? Because that's where they take the bank and the ATMs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u364	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u365	Stop in the New Democrat Republic two in one, such as Article 7. It's not possible! We cannot vote apart for the community centers and apart for Mount Athos. For Mount Athos, we agree, we vote, because we cannot separate it. With some wicked things he's in the same article. We are fear of God and vote for Mount Athos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u366	Thank you very much, Mr Buba.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u367	Are all this related to the bill, Mr President? We're from nine in the morning here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u368	I said it, I pointed it out. What else can I do, Mr. Marcopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u369	We have no other chance, Mr President. The cross-party for Thrace is not broadcast on television.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u370	Let's go to the special boys. We're starting with Mrs. Maria Apajidis from Mera25. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my position in dentistry, I would like to highlight the value of today's day. Today is the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, and from the Step this must pass a message of no tolerance and acceptance against any kind of violence that is being committed to women, girls and immigrants. At the moment you have arrested female activists, who, while respecting all health protection measures, wanted to show the message of today's day. You're accountable and please take a stand against this situation. I do not have much to add from my initial position, just to highlight the reasons why Mera25 will vote against this bill. First of all, however, a brief reference to the amendments tabled last night and today, at the last minute, in the government's permanent legislative technique, which demonstrates its respect for or not for the parliamentary procedure. Initially, the first amendment, with number 581/50 and a general description of ‘Staff and Social Affairs Settings’, provides for a series of suspensions, transfers and extensions, such as the possibility of transferring days of a normal licence of 2020 until June 2021, the transfer until April of the final date for the determination of insurance liabilities, the extension of the term of office of a Board of Directors. trade unions and other bodies. It also regulates OAED issues, such as the possibility of remote audits by staff of the Agency and the adoption of an OAED accounting and cash management regulation as 31-12-2020. Finally, it lays down a doubling of the amount to be received by beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income for December. However, in Article 9 concerning the doubling of the minimum guaranteed income for the month of December to beneficiaries, ESDC is rightly complaining, because such arrangements have not included any favourable measures for disabled people, with chronic diseases and for their families. While the government is talking about a bill that is supposed to take care of vulnerable social groups, the government's amendment leaves the most vulnerable group with care. We demand that the government also include MEDIs. The second amendment under number 585/53, namely Article 1, provides for the extension of the number of beneficiaries of heating allowance, but does not specify who they will be. The second article of that amendment refers to the exceptional extensions of special management and auction procedures of L.4307/2014. The third amendment under number 587/55 refers to the procedure for the appointment of school units for the 'School Lunch' programme. The programme has as its content the provision of catering facilities for primary public education pupils by drawing up public contracts. It is mainly an attempt to clarify the responsibilities of the ministries concerned. That is right, the expenditure on the action of the programme is covered by the budget. I'm coming back to the main body of the bill. As I have pointed out in my prototype, it goes without saying that we will not vote against specific provisions which, if they are seen individually and without the wider framework in which they fall within, are even few, fragmentary improvements. It would be a great mistake, however, to see this as a message that we do not see, that we do not understand the broader context. As I have pointed out earlier, we are not disoriented by any micro-interventions with an individual positive sign. We are clearly seeing the broader context and the conditions that have been created. And so is the citizens. We know and stress that the country is not just undisturbed in the face of what, with mathematical accuracy, comes when the bill is cleaned out from the management of the pandemic, but that it is still in a more unfavourable and defenceless situation than before, thanks to the specific government policies and obsessions. Just because the country, society and the health system are unarmed, Mer25 takes the initiative to immediately table a draft amendment to the House, a plan that responds to the pressing needs of the doctors and nurses of the ESS. They're giving society the fight against pandemic. It's the least we can do as a PART25, besides joining our voices with the people of the ERC. We must separate the necessary interventions from the urgent and urgent needs to be met. At this stage it is a direct priority to save lives. This is the most urgent need. First, repeated tests on all ERC personnel. Medical and nursing staff and other personnel of health establishments are at the forefront of the battle against CIVID -19. It is the responsibility and obligation of the State to protect the health of the fight against the pandemic and to ensure the proper functioning of hospital and other public health establishments. Secondly, the organisational integration of auxiliary medical and nursing staff in the ERC, at the posts and health establishments it already serves. There are many cases where subsidiary doctors’ contracts have exceeded a certain limit of twenty-four months. Immediate extensions through ministerial circulars do not solve the problem at all, since the Court of Auditors does not recognise payroll costs beyond 24 months for subsidiary doctors. The ESS is at immediate risk of losing from the potential of a thousand hundred doctors, whose contracts have expired. The only real solution is the direct organic integration of the auxiliary medical staff in the ERC serving as an ancillary at least 12 months, substantially strengthening it and paving the way for the vacancies in the organograms of hospitals and other public health establishments. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u372	Thank you, Mrs. Apajidis. I would ask you very much to refer only to the bill. The day-related things you said this morning, your leaders said so too. There are no amendments. They've all been filed since yesterday. Mrs Athanasios has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u373	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make a few final comments. Article 1 does not make it clear who will be the operators of these JAPDs. Will they be private bodies? Will it be NGO? Can these bodies even be housed in public schools? Will illegal foreigners also benefit? This article then gives too much powers to ministers so that with various CSRs everything can be changed without the House having a say. In addition, the time periods for the CFP programmes are not specified. What about the summer months, the Christmas and holiday seasons? The crucial thing for these children is that their routine, their organised schedule, their working hours. In Article 4 it does not separate so that the beneficiaries are only Greek citizens. In paragraph 2, where the rightful homeless were provided, the category of persons living in transition hospitality, i.e. illegal immigrants, was added. Article 9. The allowance is also granted to foreign children. They are incorporated into all the laws of the Greek state at the expense of the Greek people. In Article 16, the electronic means of notifying decisions of the OPEKA is not panacea. The expiry of a certain period does not mean that the beneficiary has received knowledge. A large portion of Greek citizens, especially the elderly, are not familiar with the new digital age. It is worth noting that, due to the pandemic, the hospital environment is a special, complex working environment, with numerous biological, physical, chemical and organisational risk factors. Requests have been made from PIS, GENGE, ISAP, INAP, WTODEN, HSH, from hospital unions to join the heavy and unhealthy staff of all health workers. Would you like to join them? In addition, as a minimum price and a minimum offer, do you intend to grant them the Christmas allowance? Otherwise it is a clear smuggling towards their face. In what way, did you support the ESS? The Prime Minister said that the ESS is not only solved by recruitment. But is that possible? If we don't have health personnel, how will other health policies become? Make cheques and fight private individuals for their future compensation. Incredible things! Is that the point of the order? Furthermore, complaints have been made about the movement of personnel - listen - from public hospitals to private hospitals, to serve them. But that's how you weaken primary health. Wrong mistake! Article 21. Clear reference is made to non-profit-making units and financing them. What kind of nationality will the advocates be? The same is true of Article 24(4), as the nationality of the beneficiaries is not mentioned. Article 33. The first dose in November? Are the Greeks intruding? That period is very short. That provision should be amended with the payment of the November 2020 dose by at least 31-3-2021, and again we are in quarantine status from the coronary pandemic. Article 38. What are those persons, which are not subject to administrative coercive measures and are not criminally prosecuted, and what is the payment of insurance contributions irrespective of the time they have been established or made payable? Whose persons, whose acts and measures to charge and enforce any exercise are abolished? Who are those persons who are the criminal offences of the above persons removed and the criminal prosecution ceases? Exemption of natural persons for public debts and non-payments? Is it to “wash out” anyone? Article 50. Total bureaucracy in all her majesty! Balance sheets have not been drawn up. In order to avoid this repetition, it is therefore proposed to provide for penalties and penalties in the event of non-timely training. Article 53. You're giving the Minister superpowers. White cheque for persons to be defined, black darkness for any fees and allowances. Article 56. We must in every way ensure the protection of personal data in order not to be violated. Article 61. ‘The commander shall delegate’. Service term to lawyers and engineers. You do not specify the selection criteria or how they will be paid. Clear provision, to serve ‘oldest’. Article 62, and I'll be done. Please specify that they are not intended for foreigners. If this is clarified, of course the Greek Solution is positive. They must also specify their income criteria. The same applies to Article 64. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, Mrs. Athanasios. Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u375	Thank you, Mr President. Workers and people's layers, women and men, young and young, experience the brutal violence of the barbaric system, employers' and state terrorism, repression. Together, they have the power to counter any form of violence, to claim what belongs to them. The JRC invites workers, women and men, young people and young people as a whole, to make their own case in defending their health, life and rights, to stand against the conditions of barbarity and minimum rights, to satisfy the needs of the power of capital. The class management of the pandemic, the priority of capitalist development over health, life and rights is characteristic of the system's inhumanity. We call on them to organise, by closing their ears to those who slander labour, people's organisations, to stand up to employers and the state, to all the mechanisms that terrorise, suppress, drag fighters into police stations, fines on representatives of parties and bodies, to try to sow fear of their participation in the struggles. The business groups and their governments will not cease, as long as they have the keys to the economy themselves, to create conditions that increase their profits, by increasing the wages and rights of workers and peoples. No one can reconcile with the few, the minimum, it cannot put the cubit down, because it will require that it go down and go down, it will be reconciled every time with even less. The opposition of the JRC has nothing to do with what we have seen between the government, SYRIZA and the other parties that call for who best manages poverty and impoverishment. For us, the unscrupulous wealth is created by the workers, the self-employed, the populace and we claim with them the wealth they produce. We call upon them to satisfy their current needs. Only with the JRC's proposal for another form of organization of the economy, with the power of the working class, the only one who can relieve the people of the dictatorship of capital, can permanently and definitively tackle the major problems of unemployment, poverty, poverty, the lack of structures, safe, modern for children, the elderly, the lack of housing for all, the privatisation of the land, which is now an extremely expensive commodity. The new social economic system will eliminate human exploitation. The amendments we tabled are rejected by the government. In other words, it rejects the subsidisation of all the unemployed and the self-employed of the OAS. It rejects the proposal for the thirteenth and fourteenth wages, as well as the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions, which were right until 2012, which you abolished. It rejects the proposal that private sector workers receive the Christmas gift on the basis of collective wage rather than the suspension allowance or the "CONTACT". In our amendment we have the example of a cook who, while his collective salary is EUR 863 and should be the corresponding gift, you give EUR 534 the suspension allowance, namely EUR 330 less as a Christmas gift. We have expressed our views on the articles in the bill, and we have said that we will vote on articles which, even though in something, alleviate. For ministerial amendments, in Amendment No 581/50 with the nine articles, if we were to vote separately - I see now that you are putting them together - the amendments would be voting on Article 9, which would increase the minimum income for the month of December. Because we have no right to deprive a single euro in addition to the majority of the world. But for the overall amendment we shall vote 'the present'. For Amendment No 585/53 and Amendment No 587/55 we shall not vote against. Our amendment with No 569/38, concerning the pensioners of OTE, has been accepted, but as an amendment from the New Democracy. Of course, we don't mind, and we say it here. As long as the workers' problem is solved and you've done this trick. We would also vote for the amendment on the provision of a deadline for candidates in an IASC notice for teachers to present the EUR 3 paradox. We have, as a JRC, made several contributions, such as the amendment to tomorrow's plenary, and we think it is unfair that teachers should be excluded from the EUR 3 paradox. In other amendments we have expressed our agreement. We want, even now, to call on the State Secretary to remove from Article 24 for the housing allowance for uninsured overtime the increase in the age limit from sixty-five to sixty-seven. I don't know if the State Secretary's watching us. We want, even now, to remove this addition that it makes for the conditions for granting the housing allowance. In Article 25, to increase income criteria. To remove from Article 17(2), the second point - I mentioned it in my prototype - which provides for the termination of ancillary staff contracts of structures not in the provisional tables. It's about a hundred employees with over six years of service. We are asking here to extend their contract, as are health assistants. We ask that Article 31 be withdrawn. Of course, it's emblematic for you. However, we are addressing all workers and invite them to participate in tomorrow's 24-hour strike. The mass involvement of workers to send out a message and claim measures to protect health, life and rights, to create the conditions for effective response to the new Armageddon announced by the government in the context of the Pissaridis Committee's findings, which contains all the demands of the great capital for further work and insurance overturns, to increase the support for the combinations that the people will pay from their flesh.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u376	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u377	I shall conclude, Mr President. Do not accept the minimum wage to be replaced by the minimum guaranteed income. Not to accept the sun’s work with the sun, and often it is completely unpaid or with a poor wage. To claim funding for health, education, insurance, social welfare. To stand up to the draft state budget, which will further exacerbate the already tragic situation. To overthrow the privatisation of insurance. Finally, we want to note that no ban, no police intervention and no public prosecutor's act will put the demands and struggles of the workers, the people and the youth for modern needs on the wall. Workers, the people cannot watch the government take advantage of pandemic, bans and continue to crush their lives and discipline the bans of meetings. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u378	Thank you, too. Mr. George Mulkiotis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u379	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister's absence is important. The government is, of course, represented by the State Secretary, Ms Michaelidou. The Minister, however, has a great deal of weight in relation to the provisions introduced for voting. There are issues to which we do not know who will answer us. Unless the State Secretary answers us. I would say that on a private television channel, on Saturday or Sunday, the Minister gave an interview and it had been mentioned that, with the November pensions, temporary pensions would also be paid increased by 50% or 70%, as would retroactively. Pensions were given. The retrospectives weren't given. I don't know what happened. There's been a lot of talk about the minimum wage. To say from the outset that the minimum wage, ladies and gentlemen, since February 2019, has remained the same. There was an extension of the deadline until March 2021. I don't know. The committee should already have started the procedure. in order to bring about convergence and to have the three-member committee, to have the procedure for further consultation on the minimum wage. Is the commission started? The Minister's away. If he was here, he'd tell us. That is why I said his absence is a major issue. In relation to what the Minister said in his presence, there was a perhaps difficult opportunity for him to understand the positions of the Change Movement. The positions of the Change Movement were clear here, specific, reasoned and what has been heard and what we have said was very clear. The Minister probably wants to see them the way he sees them. Maybe we're ruining a script for him. However, it did not answer any of the specific questions we have asked. He didn't answer anything at all. We are - I repeat, Mr President - clear. We are once again saying that we are in favour of strengthening businesses and workers, but at the same time we also need to secure the OAED's revenue in order to fulfil its crucial social role. I am referring to Rule 31. We are opposed to the degradation of training and employment programmes, which entails the measure that is to be voted on. We are opposed, in other words, to a measure which, as the government introduces, recycles taxation. We are defending the relief of businesses and workers, but at the same time we are in favour of the social link between the worker and the unemployed and the worker. We again say that wage costs for each additional full-time job should be calculated as a tax-free exit at an increased rate of 50%. This is the proposal that we, and not through the OAED, make the whole process and have a reduction in revenue. In any case, if our proposal had been heard, it would have been a greater benefit to the companies and, secondly, it would have been the support of healthy businesses. There is a question that is mistaken and unanswered. What? When is it decided, and with the legislative provision, to make this process of reducing OAD revenue indirectly, has an economic study been preceded, which demonstrates the OAD's viability? Is there anything like that or has it been in the air? Because, Mr President, the implementation of this plan will bring about reductions in the Special Account for Employment and Social Training, in particular, a reduction in the LEIs and a reduction in the social policy accounts. And these two accounts are financed by the tripartite functions, ELINYAE, OMED, LOLEN, etc. These are issues which the Minister has not answered us. As far as the amendments are concerned, I am referring in particular to the Ministerial Amendment number 581, Article 5(1) states that the term of office of the administrative trade union organisations referred to in Article 9 of Law 1264 will be extended. Indeed. So we see that, when it comes to a term of office, neither is the election committee elected on the same day that the boards of directors or the representatives of the workers elected. If it is accepted and the word 'administrative' is removed, what will it mean? It will mean that the election will be held on the board without the floor being given by the Electoral Committee, so the proceedings will not be possible. He'll be at a dead end with the Ministry. Unfortunately, he didn't notice, he didn't answer. I don't know if the State Secretary's answer now. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With regard to our amendments, Mr President, to conclude, there was no answer to the amendment on the suspension of provisions on overcompensated households and on bankruptcy law, as well as on the suspension of first home auctions. What does the Ministry answer these people who are interested? Nothing. The Minister did not answer why he does not incorporate into the heavy and unhealthy professions and why he does not present a Christmas gift to the staff of the National Health System and the National Social Care System, as well as to the Commissioners, the Security Body and the Armed Forces. The amendment has been tabled for the seventh time! Seventh time! Where did it sound? The Minister is absent. The government's not answering. What will he answer these people, health workers, and uniforms? No answer. For the 'Sicily Foundation', the amendment did not give an answer. Prolongation of a second opportunity for a multiplier adjustment of debts to the insurance funds. No answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u380	And finish this, please, colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u381	Mr President, you realise that with this logic of the government coming here, introducing a bill, actually having a debate in the committees, and the Minister being absent, we cannot talk about a sound legislative procedure, a sound legal procedure, which the government wants and which the government is calling for. Unfortunately, there is not, and these are the works and days following the government, in relation to the current process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, too. And we're going to the tricks now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u383	But why do you say that, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u384	Because, Mrs. Fotio, I know what you're going to do. You've got a minute and a half to know, but I think we're done at five. Please very much. You're very sympathetic to me. You will tell me 'Mr Katsotis has gone so far, the other one has...'. Please. You can tell them in five minutes. You have been Minister, you have now been experienced.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u385	Mr President, the Minister said - which, of course, escaped once again - that the House embraced the bill. Do we live in parallel universes? Only New Democracy votes for the bill. No other party is voting for this bill. Secondly, all Parliament's wings have made very important amendments, sixteen. You didn't even approve. Thirdly, hand down from the OAED. You will not disperse it to give it all to private companies with voucher type "colic scoil". We are voting against Rule 31. Fourthly, a lot of good words have been said about violence against women. A hundred family support centres against domestic violence. We made it, we proposed it, we put it in the NSRF, and Mr. Georgiades told us that he froze it, because we didn't come out, but you were elected. Fifth, hand down from the primary CPD. What you're doing is a crime. You say - supposedly - that children should not sit long hours in schools. Schools are the lighthouses of knowledge, solidarity, headlines in every neighborhood. Now join their staff in permanent positions. Hands off the primary CPD. Don't move on to this crime. Sixthly, Mr Brutsi did say that the minimum wage does not help the recession. "From where and from where?" he said. What the first-year HEIs know is that, that is, the recession depends mainly on consumption. The more incomes are compressed, the less consumption is falling, the more recession increases. That's why we're at 10.5%. He didn't get it. So it helps raise the minimum wage. And, indeed, you promised that at the end of November you would start negotiating the minimum wage with the social partners. I understand what he said today that we must forget that. It's not going to start this story. I understand Mrs Michaelidou's agony, which states very excited today and I understand it, because she has inherited major reform areas from the SYRIZA and cannot show anything new for over a year and a half, apart from small improvements to existing laws. That's not bad, Minister. We'll vote for them. Nothing but the legislation of existing NSAs. That's not bad, Minister. We'll vote for them. Except, anyway, this is the whole bill, it's fifty of the sixty eight articles. These are not reforms. Let me tell you what reforms are. The reform is the digital, innovative state, which for the first time we founded with a hundred and twenty-five community centres and digital OPEKA. For the first time, gather all benefits to stop client accounts. We established and gave the CRL to seven hundred thousand fellow citizens when, in the midst of a humanitarian crisis, New Democracy had designed the minimum guaranteed income for thirty thousand people from thirteen municipalities. We've configured the electronic disability file. We reformed the child's allowance. Of the 650,000,000 who got it, we got it to 1,000, 10,000. We set up school meals for a hundred and eighty-five thousand children daily with a Mediterranean obesity diet. We said that in 2021 all the children, the six hundred thousand primary school children, would take it. What have you done, Madame Undersecretary? You've reached it there, at eighty-five and left it. And now you are telling us that what a good thing it is, you people, who have called it 'catches'. We doubled the vouchers for kindergartens, because we received them from 75,000 and reached 155,000. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done. For the first time, we gave a rental allowance to two hundred and eighty thousand households. We co-financed welfare from 789 million to 3.5 billion. We have created the innovative law on assumption, adoption and the juvenile committee. We understand well that all the time we built the welfare state, the New Democracy accused us of throwing money away for anti-development measures. Unfortunately, society is experiencing today painfully what the neoliberalism of Mr Mitsotakis means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u386	Thank you very much, Mrs Fotio. Mr Markopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u387	For the economy of time, we don't have to get far. We've arrived quite late. With the stop of SYRIZA voting against the flag Article 31, which helps the Greek hirer and the Greek small and medium-sized businessman to alleviate from the insurance contributions, the Greek hirer now knows that the EUR 400, the 300, the 350 euros, the 250 euros that he will receive, SYRIZA will vote against them. This is the attitude of a party which is being burned, it says it is proleatic. To know, then, that Article 31, which lightens the Greek household, the Greek employee, from the insurance contributions, SYRIZA voted against it. I say it again, she voted against it! So this money, the warm money that the Greeks will get, SYRIZA doesn't want to take it. He's against it. Let us continue with two, three points. There's been a lot of noise. In mathematics and numericals, SYRIZA seems to be not very good. We have heard, for example, that 1,200,000 resources will be lost from the OAED. Then there was $1,500,000. I don't know if you're going to be suppressed somewhere, find it a bit, because you're so sloppy, especially when you vote against such an article, which gives the Greek breath. This is the hypocritical SYRIZA, who denies the period of pandemic under conditions of great economic pressure, to the Greeks to take money, to the small and medium-sized businessman, to be lightened through contributions. It will be recorded historically that SYRIZA refused such a help. Mr Skourletis spoke of Lockdown, as we heard a number of other jokes that he is, he says, a relief of EUR 2.8 and everything else. I'm telling you, it's over 400 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u388	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u389	Please, Mrs. Fotio, listen to you and calm to everyone. And it's not from the cool kids.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u390	If you, Mrs. Fotiou, are the members of your staff who are staying in the expensive suburbs of the Caviari's Left, you are left with 300 euros, 400 euros and 450 euros, to the Greek who is watching us at the moment and is tested for this money. So SYRIZA took that money today. Let the Greek people know. This is the left of the caviar, the northern suburbs, the left that refuses to give resources to the Greek household. You're clipboards. You are those who do not even know whether the deficit in the OAED will be EUR 1.2 billion. or ECU 1.5 billion. Or 3 billion dollars. or EUR 50 billion. You're clipboards! I'm gonna say two lately. Look, you didn't even know what a reflection these policies have, how much people are involved. One million two hundred and eighty - six thousand thirty - six Greeks are the ones to whom you deny aid. You'll apologize and apologize for that. Two hundred and sixty-five thousand two hundred sixteen businesses are the ones to which you refuse by your vote, your refusal in Article 31, to alleviate. The Greek people must know, because you are telling us - you are burning! - that you're the philosophers, the ones they give, and we're the bad neoliberals, the ones they take. If, therefore, you were a government, the insurance contributions would not be reduced. Let the Greek know. You are deeply hypocritical and that is what everyone must know. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And one last thing and I shall conclude, Mr President. Listen to see, because Mr. Famelos said some things about business at the Ministry of Labour. For business to go to Mr. Petsiti, go to Mr. Kalogritsa, go to all of them - you know - who've been doing armaments in Saudi Arabia and the meals for the immigrants, which OLAF is looking for. And finally, because we heard from my friend Mr. Barca that they were heard, he says, some macabre. Go look at "AGEY" with the graves and Mr. Giannoulis, the vulgar Mr. Giannoulis with the misery he said, that the government kills those who die for the coronary. A little serious!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u391	Thank you very much, Mr Marcopoulou. Mrs Michaelidou has the floor for two minutes, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u392	Dear Members, you see me and I restrain myself. I've been holding back and I'm optimistic. But it can't be! The opposition is lying. Downstairs, he says, hands off the CAD, don't turn off the CADs. We're not closing any JAPDs. What we are doing is establishing uniform rules, so that our children are protected, in a regulated environment and not in the air. You doubled, he says, the vouchers for nursery stations within your period. Lies! You made, he says, structures, hostels and the protection line and counselling for poor women. In fact, you told the Chief of Police to tell it. You didn't make it. With 2009 funding it was secured and implemented in 2011 pilots and in 2012 throughout the territory. Lie! You made hundred centers for abused women all over Greece. Where are those hundred centers you just referred to? Well, of course, I'm excited, too. Of course I'm optimistic. And I'm optimistic and excited to be telling the truth. And I'm excited to be in this government. And I am excited that in a year and a half I have - but we all have one, with our MPs and the government - it shows work. In our ministry, in the part of mine, we have established the birth allowance, the new two thousand euros allowance for all children. We have increased - with national resources, not European - by 20% the coupons at nurseries. We have launched a service upgrade program in kindergarten stations and we have implemented the new framework of contractors' adoptions, a law of your own, which was so difficult that you have never been able to implement it. So if I were you, I would feel bad and feel all the responsibility for not voting for these provisions which favour our most vulnerable citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u393	Thank you, Mrs. Michalidou. The debate on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is being held: 'Aid measures for workers and vulnerable social groups, socio-security regulations and provisions to strengthen the unemployed'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, sixty-seven articles, four amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill. You need to make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, as well as the farewell article and the whole bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u394	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u395	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u396	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: ‘Aid measures for workers and vulnerable social groups, social security regulations and provisions for the support of the unemployed’ were accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u397	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u398	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-25-S1-commons.u399	With the consent of the House at 21.55' the meeting for tomorrow, Thursday, November 26, 2020 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work: only debate and vote at the beginning, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: "Recommendation, operation and responsibilities of the Civil Aviation Authority, regulation of issues of the Civil Aviation Service and other provisions of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport", according to the supplementary agenda distributed.
