ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 26-10-2020 authorisation, the minutes of the IH Meeting of Monday 26 October 2020 were ratified by the Bureau in respect of the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Consolidation of debts and the provision of second opportunity and other provisions’.]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the following: The second under number 81/19-10-2020, the first question of the Member of the State of Change Movement, Georgios Kamine, to the Minister of Immigration and Asylum, on the subject: 'Restoration of transparency in statistics on Asylum', will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Member. The third, with number 73/19-10-2020, is a timely question for the first cycle of MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "The registration of clubs in the "Register of Sports Unions" of the General Secretariat of Sports (G.A.).It will not be discussed in consultation. The fourth under number 69/16-10-2020, the first question for the Member of the Hercules of Mera25 Mr.Georgios Logiades, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The struggle for the right of children with special needs in learning" will not be discussed due to lack of competence. We are starting the debate with the first under number 67/16-10-2020 on a topical question by MP I Eastern Attica of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Athanasios (Nashus) Athanasios to the Minister of Health, on the subject: ‘No reply from the Ministry of Health to strengthen the CIVID -19 and the Health Centres (K.S.)’. 'The Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the United States of America, of the other part. The State Secretary for Health will answer Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Here, Mr President, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u2	To justify the title, Mr President, 'No reply'. On 28 April 2020, Minister, five months ago I had tabled a question with the signature of twenty of a SYRIZA colleague asking you to take timely measures to strengthen the CIVID -19 health centres, as well as the other Eastern Attica health centres with equipment and medical staff to deal with the pandemic, in view of the relaunch of the tourist movement. The question was in detail the problems and needs of health centres. You never answered. Today, it is clear that the lack of response is due to the lack of preparation and the absence of a plan, which is treated with a variety of communication movements. The cases in Attica have been multiplied. For example, since 1 May the Calibian Health Center has been receiving patients with both COVID and 19, but also thousands of other incidents. It has not been strengthened with the necessary specialities, thus operating dangerously for both patients and staff. In addition, you abolished the Anavyssos Regional Hospital, thus increasing the pressure on the subordinated Calivias Health Center, causing suffering and insecurity to the residents. For the other health centres, I describe the situation in the question I have tabled and which you have not answered. For example, the Marcopoulou Health Centre: of the twenty-five doctors, the twelve are subsidiary. Immediately two cardiologists, a pediatrician, an endocrinologist, and so on. Lavrio Health Centre: From the shortcomings of doctors in some cases a programme of on-call in March could not be drawn up. Minister, East Attica is not what it was, no region is what it was. The deterioration, however, of its health centres occurs at a time when enterprises such as "MICROSOT" choose it as a centre for their establishment. I think that this difference of relief describes the situation we are in. While preferenceed by businessmen such as MICROSOT's people, others underestimate it, such as the Mitsotakis Government. It is very simple to ask questions, Mr President. A yes or no, will you open the Anavyssus Center that you abolished? Please, I call for a concrete answer and not an answer based on the propaganda rules, communication is the elegant word.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u3	Thank you. The Minister for Health, Mr. Kontozamanis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Athanasios, in no case is the fact that we have not answered your question. We have said so, I have said it many times, and I will repeat it once again, that we are consistently striving to meet all our obligations, which, of course, include parliamentary scrutiny. We have from the beginning of the year - since the summit - accepted and answered twenty-two topical questions and we have answered them all without exception. We are in this Chamber every week in the framework of parliamentary scrutiny, without being absent. Questions and references to the Ministry of Health, for only this year, are more than a thousand seven hundred, in whose answers - we have said so many times - there is indeed a delay. However, on the issues that we have been asked at times, we have given answers. Of course, as far as the management of the pandemic is concerned, it is not just parliamentary control, it is the government's information, as well as the daily information on a number of issues relating to the management of the coronary. I challenge you to take a look at the respective parliamentary presences of my predecessor SYRIZA, during the time you were government, both in time and in simple questions and references. And I want to assure you that this comparison will disappoint you. I would therefore like to be clear that we have absolutely no reason to hide or avoid giving answers, as you say in your question. We are serious about all the issues of the Ministry of Health's competence. But let us now go to the core of your timely question concerning the functioning of primary health care in relation to pandemic. We have said from the outset that serving and meeting the health needs of all citizens in primary health care structures is given throughout the pandemic. You had accused us at the beginning of the pandemic that we did not use the primary health care we had used. Now that we use it to a greater extent the primary care for health, you retire from us. There is a response plan and characteristics I will say that since the beginning of the pandemic there have been health centres exclusively for the management of coronary incidents. We have created procedures for detecting and managing suspected cases with mild symptoms in the health centers of the country, in a hundred and fifty health centers, which do not need to be hospitalized, and there is a procedure for referral of the incidents that need to be taken by health centers in hospitals and, of course, the majority of these health centers, the hundred and fifty as I mentioned, are points of molecular control for the coronary. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'm gonna need some time, Mr. President. Our plan for primary health care and health centers is based on two axes: The first axis has to do with the operation of health centers on a 24-hour basis or on two shifts exclusively for the purpose of sorting, investigating and managing patients with respiratory infection who do not need to refer to the hospital. Their operation is supportive in the hospital network and is located in the urban fabric of large cities. Initially, the Centre for Health of Alexandra, Kalyvia and Rafina in the Attica Region and the Centre for Health of Kaminia and Peristeri was set up in the 2nd Health Area. Today the number of these health centres alone for coronary management has exceeded, as I said, the sixty in the country. The second axis includes 24-hour health centres and health centres operating on two shifts and serving the rest of the citizens, patients with chronic illnesses, emergency and emergency situations, as well as citizens of their home-responsible population who are isolated and who are following their health course. In order to do all this - I will be brief, Mr President - we have taken very important steps to strengthen these structures, by recruiting additional ancillary staff, by training all staff and ensuring adequacy in personal protective equipment and by carrying out all the necessary spatial changes required by specifications. In particular, for the health centres of East Attica, the entire medical staff recruited are ninety doctors, twenty nurses and twenty-seven other staff were created and further health professionals of primary care units were established for regular communication by citizens of their responsibility, in particular patient patients and vulnerable groups who are at home, an electronic monitoring register for Coronovir patients to ensure their continuous monitoring and care, small and flexible primary care groups consisting of doctors and nurses - a health visiting patients for consideration, cooperation of health centres with municipalities and a telephone support service.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u5	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u6	I shall conclude, Mr President, this is an important point. Also, at scientific and operational level, we work with the federation of psychosocial rehabilitation and mental health institutions "APPO" the National Centre for Social Solidarity and the "Smile of the Child", as well as with a large number of volunteer psychologists. Let me repeat that, as far as the Attica Health Centres are concerned, the design which I have mentioned and all the actions that we have carried out, and I have told you about the ancillary staff is absolutely valid. Also, by using the legislative provisions that we have brought to the vote in Parliament throughout this period, we have strengthened primary care structures, as I have told you, with doctors and other staff of various specialities. In closing, and because you referred to the Anavyssos Regional Medical School, there is no question of the closure of the medical hospital, there is no question of reopening, simply because it has not ceased to work. As it worked on your days, it works today. No difference at all. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u7	Thank you. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u8	So for the Anavyssou Health Center you received a letter from the Mayor of Saronicos, Mr. Petro Filippi, you say it is still working. So let the Anabyssos residents be informed that this office is still working. Minister, I went to these centers. In two, in fact, asking strains and patients, I also drew up tables of shortcomings. There are shortcomings. Are we going to recognize the reality or are we not going to recognize it? In some cases they cannot be on-call. In other cases, what you call 'two eight hours' or 'twelfth hours' does not apply in practice. We say things that don't apply. We're being falsified by reality. Those who watch - few are watching the Parliament's channel - from the inhabitants of Eastern Attica at this time will be laughing. Why shouldn't we be specific? It is no shame that no one will be Minister and say yes, I have shortages of doctors, nurses, other staff in these health centres. That's not a shame. Why should we always use communications to cover reality? I'm so sorry. We don't know each other, I honor you. But you know what? With this behaviour you also confirm some publications of valid, very valid information people, such as the way in which they justify the fact that they have very diluted the appearances of doctors for the coronary on televisions. That is to say, I am talking about this committee, the renowned twenty-six of special experts, whose head is Mr Chiodras. You know what's called and what's written? It is said not irresponsible, and it is written not without a crossroads of evidence that you, as government, have approached them and recommended them to come out less on television, to dilute their appearances and to dilute them. Why should they get out less? Because they're ruining your communications plans. When, for example, they say that schools should open up with fewer students in each class, something is spoiling here, some image we're going to make is ruining. Questions are therefore specific and I repeat them. There are gaps. Do you recognize these gaps or not? First thing, if you recognize them who they are and what you're going to do. And of course, as you said, the Anabyssou Physician continues to work. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u9	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Athanasios, we have never in this Chamber deny that there are gaps and shortcomings in the National Health System. For many years there have been gaps and shortcomings, and we all know very well that the pandemic is also a struggle to fill these gaps. At least six thousand additional staff have been recruited since the beginning of the pandemic, precisely in order to fill these gaps and to be able to meet the needs created not only by the pandemic, but also by the needs that exist in the health system to serve all our fellow citizens, who have no coronary and have access to the health structures to deal with the health issues they have. So as far as the strengthening of the health centres in the eastern Atlantic region is concerned, I was clear. I gave you a number. We are strengthening and strengthening these structures in all ways in order to meet the needs of the people of the region. Now, I told you that the Mediatrics of Anavyssus has not been closed. It's working. There may be some issues with regard to the regular presence of doctors, but under no circumstances has it been closed and, where necessary, we intervene in order to function properly and serve the world. Because you have started your dentext by referring to the panel of experts and to the efforts of the government to smoke their voice, I think that this is not the case. First of all, we all recognise that these people are scientists, they are units recognised in society, renowned prestiges, and I do not think their scientific opinion is fading. I would like to remind the House that scientists of different party backgrounds and routes are taking part in this committee, which consults and recommends to the head of the Ministry of Health, which takes decisions. Therefore, any decision is certainly the result of this consultation and is made on the basis of an analysis of the scientific data and the composition of the opinions heard in this committee. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u11	Thank you. We continue with the third under number 82/19-10-2020 in the second cycle of the Rethymnon MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health on the subject: "Without governmental plan for the Primary Health Care (PHY), using all public structures, including Local Health Units (THY)". Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think the question is following on from the previous question. I believe that we are in a marginal phase, both for the development of the pandemic in the country and for the resistance of the health system. We all know that. What the whole world is talking about not only in our country, but also internationally, is how it will be possible to strengthen what we call 'pre-brand management' of this health crisis. We need to see, in other words, with a reorganisation of services, structures, people of primary care, with the cooperation of mobile units and social structures, with enhanced home-based monitoring and care, either in the years of suffering, or citizens who, because of COVID -19, need to remain at home but need to be monitored, how we reduce the attendance and the burden on hospitals. I think this is very critical. Primary care and its structures have a key role to play in this. The speech you have made recently and which we have been calling very systematically for in a document and with alternatives from the beginning of the crisis, from the beginning of the pandemic, from the first wave, has been delayed and incomplete and problematic. She was obviously retarded. The ERC of the next phase has not been prepared in a timely manner to involve public structures. Just the fact that the competence of primary care was entrusted just one, two months ago to a man of the Ministry's political leadership means that you had not actually dealt with this field at all. You were involved in these health centres that you said in the first phase, which were minimal, that is, five, six across Greece. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, its involvement is now incomplete, because, firstly, it has not been accompanied by adequate support, even with subsidiary staff, subsidiary doctors and other subsidiary staff, and health centres, as has to a certain extent been done in hospitals. I really am impressed by what you said earlier about ninety doctors in the Eastern Attica health centers. Do you mean those who have a country service and take over? She can't be ninety. No way! The supplementary doctors throughout Greece declared themselves recruited at this time are about seven hundred. It can't be ninety in the East Attica Health Centers. Secondly, it is incomplete because at first - and yet at least at least at ministerial declaration level - I have not seen the TMGs involved, the local health units. There was no one in the initial presentation of the plan. We pointed it out. Then a circular came out from the Secretary-General, Mr Themistocleus, which includes both TOMY, but without having a very specific role and without having been informed what exactly they should and can do in the case of the pandemic. It is also problematic, because, at the time we are talking about involving primary care structures, there is an intervention in the movement of particularly doctors from both the TMIs to health centres and health centres to hospitals. Therefore, primary care is weakened while we say that we integrate it into planning. Second, there's also an incomprehensible, in my view, report on a date for suspects...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u13	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u14	My questions, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u15	Yeah, but it's four minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u16	Wait a minute, I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u17	That's what happens with you all the time, Mr. Xanthi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u18	All right, Mr. President. Let me just say two words.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u19	You'll tell them in thirty seconds and you'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u20	The question is what the overall plan for primary care is, and if there is a role and perspective especially for local health units - I will refer in particular to dentistry - and, secondly, what are you going to do with the enslaved family doctors with the EEA. What is their role at this stage too? Will you tell us about the kind of contract that you have announced will change? Will you, in my view, come back to the old-known and bankrupt model of the two-month visits?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u21	Here, Minister, you have the floor. Always know there's a second one. You remember that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Xanthos, before I get to the point of the question, let me say something I said before. At the beginning of the pandemic there was planning for primary health care, in order to strengthen our hospitals as well. Fortunately it did not have to enter the whole primary health care in the battle against pandemic. This design has been developed and is currently being implemented to a greater extent, with the health centres that we have said throughout the territory and other services offered by health centres. Let me remind you that primary care is not just health centers and TOMY, as you say. It is the network of all contracted doctors with EOPY, dentists, physiotherapists, all these doctors who, in the first period of the pandemic, kept their medicine open and served our fellow citizens. Now, as far as your question is concerned, let me say that since you do not have a job in the health sector, you have a obsession with the TOMYs, which we still do not understand if they are local health groups or local health units. You are constantly proposing this initiative on TOMY. In fact, you have created a parallel structure in the rest of the primary health care system, without a substantial reform. Unfortunately, these practices have been implemented. Because, in fact, you spoke to your question about Mr.Tedros from the World Health Organisation, I believe that when Mr.Tedros visited Greece, you explained that your aim was first to change the name of the MAH - you were disturbed by the title in the bill you brought - and of course to legislate on the recruitments that you would have made in STOH in the law that you brought about mental health. Then you voted on the procedure for the recruitment of these doctors. I am pleased that you have once again referred to the World Health Organisation. I told you. You were accusing us at that time of making memorials of cooperation with the World Health Organization worth millions of euros to implement the reform of the Primary Health Care. What did you do? You took advantage of that money, and you did well. Because the World Health Organisation has the best know-how that can offer a country, those that we used, those you used them for your day too. And here you have followed the central design we have done with the World Health Organisation for reforming primary and developing the institution of the family doctor, making use of the multitude of potential that work as individuals. We wanted to do this. You wanted to make state structures. Let me just remind you - I will finish, Mr President - that I personally, in November 2014 as Secretary-General of the Ministry of Health was in Brussels and that we had provided EUR 900 million to support private family doctors and to cover 50% of the population by 2020, while you, with the Benos committees and your ideas, wanted it to be all state-run and to appoint people. You did the TOMYs, what you are doing today, and we need to come back to correct this situation. Because you spoke of the announcement of about a thousand family doctors' seats, I would remind you that only three hundred posts were covered. Thus the institution has been discredited both in the consciences of citizens and health professionals. I will respond to the rest in my dentext, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u23	Thank you. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u24	Minister, I'm really impressed. You dedicated your first talk to tell us what the previous government did, especially in primary care. Will you tell us what your plan is? Will you shut them down? Will you reopen the vacant posts of the family doctors, as Mr. Kikilis promised a year ago in this Chamber? Are you going to evaluate them? The picture we have is that evaluation is fine. We're committed. It is a country's reform objective to go ahead with this reform. Are you, in the name of your idea of opening up to the private sector, going to cancel it? Tedros actually came to Greece and visited TOMY, as he has visited and attended the opening of the first TOMY in the country, Hans Kluge, the current director of WHO Europe. You, as political leadership, have gone to a TOMY to see how people work? You haven't been, Mr. Contozamani. The Minister certainly hasn't gone and you have doubts that you've been to one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u25	I've been there.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u26	I was at TOMY New Philadelphia, which has five and a half thousand registered population, currently has three doctors - two general doctors and one pathologist - and the world is served excellently and has breakfast and afternoon hours. There are new health professionals dedicated to the culture of primary care, family medicine, prevention, health promotion, school health, community intervention. This whole intervention, which is a new concept in primary care, go cancel it, and all you care about is give vital space to the private sector. This is not reform. It's really deregulation and it's out where the world debate focuses. The global discussion focuses on what I said before: Pre-Institutional management of the pandemic, easy access to clinical examination and testing, home surveillance and care, mobile units, systemic regulation of patients who are susceptible to serious disease from COVID -19, such as vascular patients, enhancement of critical rings until we reach the ICUs. It's not all the conversation about the health system, about the pandemic in the ICU. The point is to prevent patients from being directed to the ICUs. So I think it is obvious that there is another political plan. You do not even tell us what you are going to do about the free trade contracts. What's your plan? Will you remove what we have done, which we commit four hours and serve the world? Or are you going to reinstate the old two-and-a-half-a-half system that was exhausted in the first five days of the month and then the world was paying out of its pocket? Is that what you want to do? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Today, therefore, through this earlier intervention, which was a real intervention, a breakthrough in the functioning of the health system was the first aid at the level of primary school with new structures since the 1980s, when health centres were built and we opened a hundred and twenty-seven structures in a period of crisis, austerity and memoranda, with a thousand and fifty people stationed. You froze them. You haven't declared anything since. You are systematically ignoring them because you are indifferent to the intervention that the SYRIZA government preceded in the valuable field of health. That is the essence of the matter. Answers we don't get. And I think that, in fact, this is not how you shield the health system, nor do you give a safety signal to society, to health workers, to citizens that there is a design that can be faced with an increased demand and an increased pressure that will likely be in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u27	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I shall reply, Mr Xanthi, now to my second-guess about the substance of your question, because it really needed a historic regression. And because you're talking about the TOMY, yes, we've visited TOMY. We see how they work.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u29	Who have you been to?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u30	In Zakynthos, which is hosted in the health center.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u31	In a TOMY in Zakynthos. In a regional TOMY.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u32	We know what's going on, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u33	There are twenty-five in the Lefkanos and you haven't gone. You went to one. The Secretary General of the WHO has been here...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u34	Mr Vandemeulebroucke, I am glad that you once again invoke the World Health Organisation. We have told you a thousand times with the World Health Organisation. You don't want to understand it. We are pleased that you have largely followed what we have done. Because we, with Mr.4238/14, adopted...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u35	You're the ones who broke up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u36	Let me talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u37	You sent two and a half thousand doctors away.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u38	Let me talk. It bothers you, I know. You're inconvenienced by everything we're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u39	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u40	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u41	You discovered this creation, without connection and consistency functional to the rest of the primary care system. So I'll tell you what we'll do in primary health care and what we'll do with the TOMY. We need to strengthen primary health care and all the things you mentioned about how primary health care should work are all those which we legislated on in the first period of pandemic. At the moment, they are also legislated and are operating both domestic visits, teleconsultative and intangible prescribing to serve the world. And of course, we are still going further with the management of long-term patients. We agree on that. I don't think anyone disagrees. You'll see it in our plan. So what are we going to do to strengthen: the TOMY - I tell you for sure - must and will be integrated into health centres, serving specific roles and objectives, making it the operational arm of a health centre, so that we can upgrade the provision of pre-primary and primary health care services with a focus on prevention. We have said so many times that at the moment we are following the new trends of the World Health Organisation, which speaks of new public health, where prevention meets primary health care services and provides a grid of health services integrated with all citizens. So they will be an integral part. Health staff, whose payroll is currently financed by the ESRB, will not differ from the rest of the staff of primary health care structures in responsibilities, obligations and rights. We will do what you should have done, which we started in 2012 with the integration of the former IKA structures into the ESS and you then, with your sole responsibility, stopped a strong single primary health care. And we will do this again in cooperation with the World Health Organisation. Along with the WHO, we are indeed assessing the present situation in the primary health care system. We have reached thirty-five specific interventions, which for the first time will soon lead to an integrated and operational primary health care system, focusing on integrated primary health care networks and family doctors, so that none of our fellow citizens will stay behind. As far as your question for the EEA is concerned, we have extended until 30 November the existing contract status of family doctors with the EEAS and are considering the best possible solution, which we will be able to present immediately. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u42	We continue with the first with number 66/16-10-2020 in the first cycle of MP B3' South Athens the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ralia Christidou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Insufficient preparation of the Ministry of Education and delay in the start of distance courses for students belonging to vulnerable groups". The State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs will answer Mr Sophia Zacharakis. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, while October and the schools have already come out on 14 September, they have not started their modern education courses for students who are vulnerable and who, following medical advice, are at risk from COVID -19 if they do not learn from home. The Ministry had first decided that courses for these children would be made by assistant teachers and in second year, on 8 September, that they would be made by economically vulnerable teachers authorised by their school, and later a circular on 20 September it was decided to redefined the criteria for the qualification of teachers as health-care workers. At the same time, there has been no preparation or compliance of the Ministry with the directive issued by the Personal Data Protection Authority concerning telematics and for which it had set a period of three months. There has also been no specific information on the electronic equipment that students or teachers will need in order to be able to respond to modern education. It is important to stress that these students are vulnerable and did not return to their classroom the previous school year after the end of the quarantine. I would remind you that no measures of modern education for these children were taken at that time, but they were content with the quarantine in asynchronous education. What does that mean? To get to know and understand people who may not be familiar with this educational process, it means that these students in the period after the quarantine and until the summer holidays did not make any delivery. They were simply attending the exercises and educational material given to their classmates at school. This means that last year's educational gaps come to be added to this year's and late 14 September's until the normal start of modern education. We would like, please very much, to tell us that you consider these educational gaps to be covered by the fact that these children are Greek citizens, not children of a lower God and have a right to education, as are their classmates. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The Minister, Mrs. Kerameos, once the occupations began, announced lessons of modern education for the children of occupations, even on Saturday, and sent a relevant circular to the schools. And then when these statements were made, and so far, modern education to the children who deserve it, that is, to the susceptible, has not started. Isn't that a little oximo? Don't you think it shows a lack of sensitivity, a lack of responsibility for children who, for health reasons, lack the valuable socialization offered by the school?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u44	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u45	I'm closing, Mr. President. Also, Minister, in cases that are now close to a thousand daily, it is clear that, on the one hand, vulnerable children may increase and that the process of distance learning for vulnerable people has been here for a very long time. In other words, this is not a small process. So I ask, first of all, what is the number of children belonging to vulnerable groups throughout the territory and should they attend distance courses? What needs, then, are there at every grade? Secondly, how many and what schools does this measure apply and when? Thirdly, what has been offered to these children throughout the period since the start of the school period on 14 September? Fourthly, what are the needs of students in electronic equipment and which are covered by the Ministry of Education? Fifth, what are the needs of the teachers involved in televising on electronic equipment and which of them does the Ministry cover? Sixth, how many teachers, permanent or alternates have been allocated for the televising of students belonging to vulnerable groups?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u46	My colleague, you have two minutes and you've reached four.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u47	Mr. President, please. It's serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u48	Then there wouldn't be a procedure. She'd be free.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u49	I understand the tiredness of all of us. We've been here for four days.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u50	It has nothing to do with each other. The process is a process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u51	Apparently it does. The process is a process, but I know very well...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u52	You've reached five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u53	And if you keep interrupting me, we'll get to six. Please, let me finish. It's two more questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u54	You're telling me that I interrupted you at 4: 20 for the seventh question, while you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u55	Mr. President, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u56	What can I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u57	Please. Seven, what course will these kids have every day? Do you think it'll cover the entire range of courses they'd do if they were at their school? Do you think teachers are trained for this exercise of distance learning? Last, what programme is telematics doing? Through the ‘CISCO’ programme, which is controlled by the Privacy Authority, which has given a three-month deadline for compliance with the Ministry of Education to correct the loss of personal data? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u58	Madam Minister, you have the floor. Take your dentistry too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u59	I'll do it. Mr President, let us clarify something if it is not clear. The topical and urgent debate procedure has clear questions. You did not ask these questions when you asked the question. The Members present here have been in ministerial or otherwise, and you know that in the topical and urgent procedure you ask specific questions. It's not what you asked. I will answer, but by a certain number.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u60	Madam Minister, let me tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u61	Wait a minute, Mr. President. It is very important because it is the exactness of the answers here. We come here with evidence. If anything in the answer is not included in the questions that you have put to us today, we will either come back with a written question, if you do, or with a second time-limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u62	Just, Minister, let me tell you that's understandable. Everyone knows the process. That's the way timely questions are. As you can see, however, we are all Members of Parliament. I'm a president too, I'm a congressman. Everyone must understand both the time and the procedure and how to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u63	You'll see from here. I fully respect the issue of time and of course the time and the Members of Parliament, if anything. We are living under conditions that are also of major importance. We see it anyway. We must adapt to a dynamic situation which governs the whole of the activity. We saw it before the timely questions relating to health. Every day such issues are discussed in the House. So the area of education could not be left unaffected. Co-rapporteur from the beginning of the Ministry of Education was to give our children choices, to give choices within the overthrow of their everyday lives. It wasn't easy to leave lifelong training. Anyone who's even been in class for an hour - I've been in class for several hours - knows that being able to teach is a magical thing that can hardly be substituted by the computer. Yes, I do. Let's see what we got from March to June when they started school again and the primary school kids. You know that, at the time, it wasn't mandatory to implement tele-instrumentation. We were able to set up a distance learning system with more than one million thousand pupils and more than sixty thousand permanent and alternate teachers, as well as private teachers in the digital platforms developed for this. Watch the numbers. Here I must say that I also collaborated with the ITHY - 'DIOFANTOS' for the platforms of e-me and e-class which have evolved. The ones you described before are asynchronous, of course, even with the provision of the 'CISCO' free platform that you mentioned before, so that it can be produced in our children what could not be given, even by living education. So it is recorded as an important success of the educational community and a proof if you want how much we can achieve in the midst of the pandemic. And here I think I will never stop saying a great thank you to those who did it, the parents, the children and the teachers who contributed to it. This is the great picture of distance learning. Let's go to each other now. You raised the issue of vulnerable groups. Circular change is not something that the Ministry of Education has done. We incorporate into our policies those defined by the relevant circular that is not the Ministry. So we had to update, at a time when we had already taken the first elements of teachers, who belong to a vulnerable group. Consider that in Greece our teachers belonging to vulnerable groups are about two thousand five hundred. And here, it's about the two grades, the primary and the secondary ones. The vulnerable groups - you know well - are judged by specialized scientists. They are the ones mentioned in the previous question, which we have been reverentially listening to all this time. Of course, doctors' suggestions - and I am not an expert to say this - can be modified and I imagine that they have been modified in terms of defining vulnerable groups. So this has affected the issue of knowing who we can address, so that they can teach the child at home. I will take a minute, and then I will go to dentistry, Mr President, so that we do not delay this House. On the issue of the Personal Data Protection Authority, you know that since 7 September there is an opinion from the Personal Data Protection Authority, which considered that modern distance learning, as adopted in Article 63 of Law4386, was fully compatible with the State's basic mission to provide education and is not contrary to the laws on the protection of personal data. In fact, maintaining a relationship between education and a child is considered to be capable of making use of any appropriate measure at that time could also be necessary in the context of a health crisis. In fact, three months have been given, as you rightly mentioned, in order to allow for any compliance with matters considered by the Authority. We are in the quarter and, indeed, the Ministry since the beginning of the issue of the opinion has launched all the procedures to be ready within the scheduled date. In fact, the Authority - and I would like to say this before I close the protology - has clearly considered that distance education in primary and secondary school units is permitted during the quarter, which - I recall - we are currently running. EDI takes place in children belonging to vulnerable groups. But I'm going to give you more specific data in dentistry so I won't delay you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u64	Please, Your Honor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u65	Thank you very much, Mr President. To be very specific, my question was clearly about the children of vulnerable groups and you did well to give us more information about the general context. As far as the measures for vulnerable groups for these children are concerned, in 1 Athens, as far as we know, online departments have been built, but they have not operated, i.e. on Friday 23 October, until 23 October. In the second of Athens there are thirty-eight primary school children belonging to vulnerable groups and also, until Friday, they have not done a single hour online lesson or another lesson. And I give you two simple examples. That is the case in the rest of the country. Are we, then, one and a half months after the start of the school year and can it be that this problem has not yet been solved? Is it possible to change the criteria by which they are defined as vulnerable teachers after the start of the school year? Can no design - let me - any provision for electronic equipment that students and teachers of vulnerable groups will need in order to be able to respond to modern education? And, finally, I don't understand, and if you want, in your dentistry to tell us how many children eventually belong to the vulnerable groups? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u66	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u67	Within the question, you say that distance education has not started in the vulnerable groups. It is a crucial issue and the truth is that for the training addresses - to always speak you know with the language of the field - it was a great project, firstly, because, as you have seen, the criteria have changed. But training directors haven't changed them. It changed, as I told you, the Circular that came from the Ministry of Interior. And so the number had to be updated. So, in order to be able to make this match of children who are in 1 Athens - it was a small number, as you mentioned, small in 2, that is to imagine the multiplier addresses, I speak daily with the training managers, may have six children in western Thessaloniki, six in the east - so it had to be better managed by human resources. But, at the moment, because you said you couldn't tell you that already four hundred ninety students - and it's a significant number I'm telling you, because they're small locally - they're doing distance training. And, indeed, I urge the addresses that so far could not be started, to continue. I am also committed to coming back to the House and perhaps with a future question next week to give updates to the figures, because we too want these gaps, which we have seen, to be covered. I know that from March to June, not all children have been able to distance themselves. This means gaps, gaps that children should fill in with either an acceleration, which you know in small sections will speed up. In other words, when you have objectives - which we have set targets through the Institute of Education Policy and say that High School 1 must be taught this year - these are teachers' priorities. Kids will achieve the goals. However, it is something that should concern us all that, in fact, for our schoolchildren in 2019-2020 and 2020-2021 will have to look at the matter of matter. It's not a question of making a counter-tracking here or of supporting the Ministry's theme, it's about helping children. I therefore believe that the moves we have made, firstly, by being able to set up these online sections - I told you four hundred and ninety-one children, I will come back with the whole next week to see the progress of implementation - and the fact that we have already given you specific instructions - I have brought you the circular that I took out on how a lesson is being set from time to time - because it is not necessary for everyone to know that. And go to training, which is very important. Since April, lessons have been learned with MUK, with a special platform, from the Institute of Education Policy and the EPA, in which some tens of thousands of teachers participated. However, I am here to announce the very big programme that I am running from the ESRB and which will be launched immediately, a programme of two million euros. He ran very fast so for anyone who knows the Greek state, which is about all the teachers, i.e. public, permanent and substitutes. Therefore, imagine that it will cover around eighty thousand people through a university and with the cooperation of the "DIOFANOS". The public, in other words, comes to train the public and is a huge programme. It will be 20 hours of major training. It's going to run until February, the Maximum. And this will not only concern knowing what e-class or modern tele-telecommunications, but also the educational object, which we see internationally employs those teachers who have to do remotely. This is, therefore, a significant development so far to have the elements of the hours that have become total in distance, because there are also children coming into fourteen days away from school, because it may be close contact or their department stopping for 14 days. There have been two hundred and thirty - five thousand five hundred sixteen teleconferences. Imagine that these correspond to about four million seven thousand hours, so a hundred five thousand training hours. I'm not saying it's the ideal or all the needs are met. I told you before and the admission of things we need to speed up. But it is important that it has started, that it has already been ensured, that more than twenty-one thousand tablet sets have been given and almost three and a half thousand laptops and notebooks - these are imagined to be about 5 million - and that we still receive forty thousand devices by tender. Again, this is with European money, with ESDP. So, for the first time in the history of Greek education, we have a system that we are trying to function holisticly, yes, with difficulties, with pathogens, with problems, but through them is correcting and treating them. And here I must say that since every beginning and difficult, we come to support the Greek teacher and with the training and any schools state the inability of their children to have a tablet, at least it can provide this child with their tablet and then return it so that the next child can continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u68	We continue with our second question under number 68-16-10-2020 in the second cycle of the Member of Parliament Prevezis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Barkas to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "In turmoil and reflection the educational community and parents with the conditions of operation of the Primary and Secondary Education in Preveza". The State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs will answer Mr Sophia Zacharakis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u69	Minister, with this question I would like to convey to you the screaming of agony and the intense concern of the educational community, parents, pupils of the Preveza Prefecture, primary and secondary education for a number of problems and omissions, which are evidently resulting from the government, from the government's work and concern specific issues, which I refer to in my question and to develop them. As far as the Municipality of Parga is concerned, Minister, there is a very serious problem. There, since March, we have an earthquake. The high school and high school of Canalaki of the Municipality of Parga are still under construction. Schools have been opened. The students, however, have no rooms to go, because the contractor, who has undertaken the project still to hand over schools to the school community and teachers. This has created the following issue: High school and high school students go and take courses in primary and technical high school in the region. As you can see, cleaners do not exist to be able to clean up the space so that students rotate. They haven't been hired cleaners. And these students, apart from the fear that has arisen from the stagnation of the already existing school, are forced to take lessons in places where students of primary and high school go to matching and technical high school and high school in Canalaki. I have submitted to you, Minister, since May and a memorandum, which reads as follows: The students who have suffered this barbarity - the earthquake I mean - have no homes. Many families of these people don't have houses. Their homes have been destroyed. And they don't have any schools to go. I've asked you to join a special percentage of children who go to higher education. You've done it in Chania. I'll come back to my dentistry. You've done it on other occasions. We ask you to do so, and the areas of ours, for children who need it. My question therefore is: what steps does the Ministry intend to take to solve the problems presented by the Presidencies in the area of education? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u70	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. I note, what you say about specific moleculosis. I will pass it on to the Minister, as I have the issues of primary and secondary school and not the special moulation for the pan-Hellenic. I'm saying that to be precise. Because you'd like an answer. So I couldn't commit to something. Again, I couldn't, because we're not at this point in time that someone could say about it. Every time I make this introduction, because I feel like we're experiencing all these unprecedented crises. And this natural phenomenon has come to be added, which you mentioned and which has also happened within the Lockdown period, the period when we were all home. At the same time, however, because moments show the measure of responsibility, I must correct impressions that your question may leave, and put the evidence to be assessed, if not any more of the people who are listening to us. The building issue and we watch it with interest each time, because in these schools we have our teachers and our children. And you know that this is not a matter for the Ministry of Education, but we are working together, because we have a common face toward children and teachers. We're getting continuous briefing on what's going on there, and we're pressing in time. Let's just see what happened in case of the restoration of the school buildings of Kavalli. Indeed, on 21 March the seismic vibration took place in the region, when we were living the first phase of the treatment of the pandemic. Damaged in the 1st Elementary of Canalakium, High School and High School of Canalakium and PAAL. I mention the following, so that people also know the flow of events: a step has been taken in the region. The tender for the award of the repair work started. In June, the competition had emerged as a contractor, but, in July, in July, the contracting company declared a coma, with the result that the contractor will withdraw and the project will take over as a contractor the next in turn. This forced a delay with the project contract to finally be signed by the new contractor in August. Despite this delay with the responsibility of the initial contractor, but also with the obvious difficulties caused by the pandemic, the contractor started and completed the piece of primary and PSAF - to discuss what has been completed so far - and the restoration of damage to high school and high school is pending. The damage caused to the earthquake - because I have received accurate study and imprinting of these - is certainly longer and at least, by their acceptance, longer recovery time. Until then and with the proposal of the Director of Education of the Municipality of Parga - in fact, we are in constant contact with the Deuteronomy Directorate with a constant daily interest of the same people for the solution - the students of the high school take a course in the building, which has been restored, in elementary school, as the others mentioned in the EPA building. It was the best possible solution - to speak in terms of realism every time - given the circumstance that teaching hours will not be lost. We talked before that we already have several lost hours over the previous period. The solution is temporary until the total restoration of the high school and high school building for which - I repeat - there is assurance on the part of the contractor - we have had contact with the CIS again today - that it will be completed immediately. That was their admission. In fact, I do not think I can do anything but encourage the company, this commitment to immediately implement it, so that our children will not go this afternoon. It creates a big problem in family planning. However, any other solution at the moment seemed - and it seems, they have exhausted the effort and the training staff there - that it would not be possible. So we're going to the next script, which could facilitate the teaching process. You mentioned something within the question that I would like to say in the protology of the transfer of students to be carried out on their own and on their own means. That's not accurate. What is said by the Regional Education Directorate of Epirus is that their transport has been undertaken by the relevant part of the Region of Epirus, having changed the transport contract and routes. In fact, there is also a meeting of the Economic Committee on 29 September 2020 - I say it for information to the House - that transport is normally carried out by the region rather than by private way or by means of own resources, as it may be or may seem. I'm stopping here so I won't delay the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u72	Thank you. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I retain the first position you have made on the first issue with regard to the special rate. I am pleased that you will report to the Minister, because the Minister is disrespectful of the Members' questions and has not answered them yet. I am pleased, however, that you will be the transporter of the question about integration into a special percentage of the students affected by the Parga Municipality. To hear this from the children, the students, who are now watching us, Minister, from the life we do in social media. Secondly, I realize you're not an engineer and you're in a difficult position. I shall, however, have to report to you yesterday on the local websites, which, Minister, say that the rehabilitation of seismic officers in Canalaki is delayed. He says in there that high school has been under construction for seven months. Of course, that's how things happened, as you say. The contract, which the company has signed, however, was under an obligation, Minister, to hand over the schools at the end of September. And they always get extensions on the basis that we are constantly finding more problems in school buildings. It says, now, that the tender relates to EUR 125,000 plus VAT, etc. These do not make any difference. But now it says that since the end of October, when it was the date of delivery, we go back to the beginning of the new month. And we'll see. Do you know what the problem is, Minister, in your finding that students go to primary and technical high school and take lessons? First of all, you haven't hired a cleaner. Teachers and teachers are forced to clean up school spaces - don't move your head, sir, behind the Minister - just so they can rotate students. Tell me what the protocols are. Here, I have the CEDEFOP paper on the cleaning process, Minister, since 31 August 2020, which says how the disinfections of school buildings should be made. Is it true that they are not done in accordance with the protocols? Second, I want a date, Minister. I want you to tell me, what date the building will be delivered. Because if you go to the school building - don't have to file pictures - there's a stall outside. The students have suffered the suffering of the earthquake in the canteen. Houses don't have one. They're asking for a special percentage. At least, now that this school starts, the Third High School children who are entering the pan-Hellenic exam are going to take lessons? When will they find their school quiet, so that they can warmly get into their goal of success in the pan-Hellenic exams? Madam Minister, please don't say that to the House for the transport of students. Because there are complaints by parents who say that the region, of course, may have undertaken to finance the transfer of pupils. The question is that the means of transport, taxis or buses, which carry students, are not paid. And parents are forced to give the fare to travellers or others to transfer students, precisely, Minister, because they have not paid the money that the Ministry of Interior should pay to the region. I conclude with this. I didn't hear anything about the issue of the overplanning students in the schools of the Municipality of Preveza. I can tell you again that the Association of Parents and Primary and Secondary Students has sent you a memorandum, Minister, on the massity of pupils in less than thirty-five square metres of school rooms, which is contrary to the mandates of the experts in the field of pupils to be present in each room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u74	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Barkas, when we talk, I always try to respond to the data I have before me and you will never hear - at least I will try - saying things that either evade my responsibilities or evade my knowledge. So I have to say that after special interest and constant supervision - you have done this work, you have been in a ministry and you know very well what that means - we are watching bodies located in another ministry and we have services that have functions with ministries. Yet from the Ministry of Infrastructure itself and from the CCTB itself, the extension, if anything, is to complete the project as soon as possible. You will, however, agree with me that if the complaints, anyway, are to be justified, our children must return to a safe building. We don't want to go somewhere where there'll be any precariousness. And if anything else as a local MP I'm sure you care about this very much. I would therefore like the children to return to a safe building, and I want them to return as soon as possible, without any fear and insecurity to our parents and guardians and, of course, to our own children and teachers who are in these areas. So I expect the job to end as soon as possible. But not end like - but end with the best conditions for child safety. Let's talk a little bit about the issue you raised about the first grade of the 2nd and 30th Prevezis High School, because that was the note if I'm not mistaken. I would like to mention the number, because I think the numbers are of great importance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u76	It is an example of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u77	I say it like that, let's see. Well, the first class doesn't have eighty-one, has seventy-nine students. You're saying the class is thirty-five squares. But from the papers of the Education Department - I haven't been to count exactly, but to tell you that I've been to a lot of school units, then another question, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u78	Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u79	I'd love to. However, no room has a surface of less than thirty six square feet. I would remind you that the speeches or directions of the Special Sub-Committee on Schools do not indicate any ratio between children and school halls, but they say that they turn all children around with the existing ratio and we all wear a mask. Here again I have to say a huge 'bravo' to our children because from the age of four to the age of seven are the ones that have put the mask on us, not to say that we have been put on the glasses, wearing the mask and respecting the measures. And their teachers have been helping the masses in this respect, even by taking powers or responsibilities that evacuate and their educational duties. So let's go to the result we have right now in the Prevezi Regional Unit. Fortunately, and I really say this with great satisfaction, we are talking about zero cases, about zero cases in a school unit and about no part that has been closed down. In fact, in cases where some parts of Greece may have closed down, what we said before with the initial functions, by way of distance education, is provided. I repeat for the Preveza Schools the evidence is indicative. Not even a section is closed today because of the virus. What do we see, and indeed we see this European? That our schools are in the midst of pandemic not only a safe and functional environment, but also an island and a health shield within an ocean of health threat. At least, as we see the rest of society and indeed the outbreak of the second wave that we see worldwide. I don't want to cultivate unfounded fears. I'm interested in giving the evidence. And the evidence at the moment is that with strict compliance with measures and with the existence of cleaning staff, at least in the recent teleconference I had with the primary and secondary education directors of Prevez, there was no question. If we need to discuss something with the municipality we need to do with great joy, and if you need something that the municipality needs to do to strengthen perhaps with a few months' contracts for staff recruitment - it has not been mentioned as a matter, I repeat - there are the legislative tools and the recent arrangement for the interior to do so. However, so far I have to say that I have not received any reference to thinking or concern about the issue of cleaning staff. I'm here to talk about it. Why do I care what's going on in your area? I'm interested in logic and accountability for what we've done so far. I should also like to try to give the information of the people who have been appointed for the first time in Preveza. You know we hired four and a half thousand people with special treatment. This is something your government had started. Some people said we wouldn't finish it. We did so despite the Cassandras saying that there is no money and there is no political will. So it's over. And there are, at the moment, fifteen people appointed in the Preveza Regional Unit. We hope that all five thousand two hundred fifty, in the next phase of general education, will also give us permanent staff in the region. Because dependency on substitutes, except that it creates a great difficulty for themselves to change the area every year, is also very important for the stability of the educational process. And I really write it down. For your data and for your files, let me tell you that we've already hired forty thousand alternates. It's a record number. Let's go see what we hired in 2018, as a reference year, and in 2019, and what we have this year. We therefore have in primary education in 2018-2019 forty-seven alternates. Last year we needed sixty. Now, seventy-five. And if necessary, and if there are gaps, we will be able to do whatever it takes to meet the needs. We're going to secondary school. In 2018, we hired fifty alternates, in 2019, sixty-one and eighty-seven this year. Why do I give all this evidence? I give them because at a time of difficulty the Ministry of Education, by making a schedule earlier than ever, on August 24th, hired substitutes. And he didn't say to them, "Go to the training department to be afflicted," but he said to them: "Go to school" to facilitate the process. These are not questionable. They went to school directly. And for the needs that were provoked, the Minister came to Parliament and the House voted 331 million extra appropriations to meet the needs of COVID -19 and to extend the whole day for the first time without preconditions. I'm filing all this in the Minutes. [[At this point, the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Sophia Zacharakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] We certainly have a long road ahead of us, but we will do so consistently and with respect for Greek citizens' money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u80	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-26-S2-commons.u81	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.43 the sitting for the next Thursday, 29 October 2020, at 10.00, on the subject of the proceedings of the House in accordance with the agenda distributed.
