ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before moving on to the agenda, let me first make a statement to this House: The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics shall submit its report to the Prosecutor's request for the authorisation of criminal prosecution against MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK 1. Discussion and vote uniformly on the principle of Articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: 'Following the Memorandum of Understanding in the Agriculture between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Kuwait' and: 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Discussion and vote uniformly on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: "Following the Convention on the Loss of Consultative Services - Strategic Planning and Action for Agriculture and the Transformation of Countryside (SPARTA) between the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development". The above bills were adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, those who object to the ratification of contracts for five minutes, as well as the parliamentary representatives, if they so wish, for five minutes and provided that the President of their parliamentary group does not speak. The vote of both conventions will take place at the end of their debate separately and in the order of debate. Ladies and gentlemen, does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. Does a colleague want to take the floor? We will enter the first ratification, to which the New Democracy, the Change Movement and Mera25 have voted, SYRIZA has reserved the Communist Party of Greece against and is the Greek Solution. In the second, SPARTA, that is, only the New Democracy has voted in favour. According to SYRIZA, the Communist Party of Greece, the Greek Solution, has reserved the Movement of Change and "present" Mera25. We're going to have a single conversation. We have said so, after all, and you have agreed. So let's start with SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Papaleou. Mr. Papaliou, you have reserved for the first and you are against the second sentence. Here, you have the floor for five minutes. Of course, because they're two, there'll be a tolerance. The 'five minutes' I have to say because of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I will make a reference to what is happening in the rural area in our country, in the field today, and then I shall refer to the two bills, the two sanctions, for which we have already taken a stand. The time when the two sanctions are introduced is crucial. It coincides with the adoption of new strategic guidelines proposed by the European Union for primary production in the period 2021-2027, its link to environmental protection, the response of climate change, biodiversity in agriculture and the food chain. These policies, in the way they are introduced, involve additional commitments for the rural world, especially to small and medium-sized farmers, namely the majority of Greek farmers, and will pay even more attention to production costs and reduce agricultural income. However, it is doubtful whether they meet the new climatic and environmental conditions. At the same time, it coincides with the coronary pandemic, the parallel closures of the economy, the unfair and unequal treatment of farmers against a large number of other professionals, and all of this has achieved a strong blow to the rural world. In the rural economy, resources have not been channelled and farmers and farmers have only received minimal support, not to say any support, even though they are affected. Gentlemen of the government, you are inferior to the circumstances. You share promises and then disguise your cultivated expectations. In this context, the opposite and in advance issued government communications do not correspond to the situation. And all this is happening, and from the Greek side there is no design that sets priorities and hierarchy problems. The Greek side has not tabled opinions and has not made any speeches to the European Union, obviously because it has not worked out them. The lack of interest in the agricultural sector in the medium to long term arises from the absence of an autonomous capital of any relevant reference to the draft Commission of Pissaridis, which is supposed to constitute the country's proposal and base for its financing by the Recovery Fund. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that olive oil production, wine growing, livestock farming - and not only - are emblematic sectors where those active in them face a problem of survival and, of course, while the lack of liquidity for capital movements and the financing of investment projects is a cause for the suffocation of rural areas, since the banking system refuses to finance such activities. I now come to two sanctions. I shall start with ratification of the contract with the World Bank. I also told the committee that planning agricultural policy is a matter for the Greek state. The technocrats are welcome for technical support for this policy and necessary, I would say. We do not question, Mr Ministers, the need to recruit consultants. We question the need to recruit this consultant, because he refers to political proposals in a specific political direction. After all, let us not forget that the technocrats, the consultants, are not neutral, as they like to define themselves, and as some representatives of so-called post-politicalism say. The selection of specific consultants, technocrats, therefore, refers to the conclusions of the studies entrusted to them and will in fact be based on their perceptions. The fact that, on the basis of the international convention under discussion, the selection of scholars will be made by the World Bank, except that it prejudges the conclusions, gives it an implication of objectivity, not objectivity. Perhaps this is what you are seeking to pass on to specific policies, namely to continue the IMF's non-Monthly Memorandum Policies via the World Bank, the OECD and other competitors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The Minister told the committee that the subject of the debate concerns the drafting of a contract. It was not mentioned in its contents. However, training preceded the choice of the counterparty and the choice was made directly rather than by a tender. The Convention has been signed on 22 July 2020, is being introduced for ratification five months later, a matter of time arises, there is a timetable for the completion of the two-year contract. Time has already begun, because the contract will start from the date of signature. This means a five-month loss for the Greek Ministry of Rural Development and Food. Some of the projects entrusted to the World Bank should have been delivered, two reports, as stated in the timetable and the first instalment paid. The question is why the validity of the contract does not begin with its ratification. However, have the projects undertaken by the World Bank been completed and received in accordance with the timetable? It is a question that we have not received an answer. You told us about the payouts, Minister, that ratification was needed. Therefore, no payments have been made. As far as time and deadlines are concerned, you said it was a technical matter. However, it is not a technical matter, because these deadlines also depend on commitments, obligations and the exercise of rights. In other words, these times depend on substantial results. The award of the study framework, the review and evaluation of the preliminary draft strategic planning and SWOT analysis and of sub-services, as described in the contract, relates to the preliminary draft strategic planning, which the Agricultural University had undertaken. In other words, an evaluation of a project carried out by a university is being carried out. This means that the project recipients are assessed by others, "workers" and not by the project recipient. I do not think this is going on because, if this goes on in the same way, the evaluations will have no end.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u4	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u5	I shall conclude, Mr President. I won't be long. This award is made directly and without a tender, not to other interested parties - for example, to Greek universities and public bodies - to participate in a tender that should have been opened, because there are also universities and research centres that have such a possibility in Greece. I repeat - and it is well known - that the World Bank and its members are occupied by certain specific concepts which are incompatible with policies pursued or must be carried out by the European Union and Greece, especially in the agricultural sector. In addition, the common agricultural policy incorporates a set of state interventions - decisions, which proves the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u6	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. You've been in eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u7	I shall conclude, Mr President. We have said that the political response to Greek agriculture is reflected in Annex I to the Convention. Competitiveness is already mentioned in the first activity and I would say that there are no social specialities that differentiate Greek agriculture, the Greek rural area from other countries. There is no contribution to employment, to the preservation and, ultimately, to the survival of the Greek countryside, despite the heavy title of the rural transformation bill. There is also a chapter, a task assigned to the bank, to examine the involvement of individuals in agricultural insurance. This is an ideological obsession and political direction, despite the assurances made in the past by the Minister responsible, even if you added the 'unfortunately', Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u9	So our view is that the insurance of agricultural capital against natural hazards must be public.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u10	Please, Mr. Comrade. You've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u11	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying about the cost of the project. It's two contracts, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u12	That's not right. Please, get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u13	I shall conclude, Mr President. We said it was 950,000. However, the costs are not included - the contract says so - which is essential for the successful completion of this work. There are also terms and conditions in the Annex which make the agreement, I would say, leody. In conclusion, our objections and our total rejection of this convention are not ideological, as you said, but deeply political. As far as the second ratification is concerned, I shall end, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Colleague, you're speaking twice a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u15	With regard to the second convention, I would like to say that this is indeed a convention which concerns and cooperation on food safety and quality, water management and the development of water crops. Kuwait has expertise. At the same time, we also have public bodies, such as universities, ELGO - "Dimitra", Benakio, which also have a great deal of scientific knowledge and, therefore, cooperation will benefit both. This cooperation therefore opens up prospects for strengthening the exports of Greek agricultural products. Thank you and apologies for not keeping time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u16	The point is, there has to be a parity. In any case, after the first speaker spoke ten minutes, I will leave all the time to the others. But please, if you can, because you're two, share him. I understand it's two sanctions, but it's a piece of legislation. If there's two of them, you can split the time, because it's not right. There must be a parity. Mr. Apostle Panas of the Change Movement now has the floor. The Change Movement has voted in favour of Kuwait, so you'll talk about SPARTA. If you want to make a general placement, you can. I'm not talking about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, we are now concluding the debate on two important conventions on the preparation of the new common agricultural policy. Before I put myself on the draft law, however, I would like to identify the broader framework for agricultural policy and the existing situation in the country at the moment. In particular, therefore, it is true that there is a need for a single and coherent plan to be implemented in rural policy, which will emphasise value creation, as well as the development of sustainable farms and the creation of added value for the rural world. Unfortunately, however, until now there have been only spasm movements, which is reflected in very low agricultural incomes. According to figures for 2019, more than 95% of professional farmers and farmers had incomes which did not exceed EUR 10,000, while barely 0.8% managed to have an individual income exceeding 20,000. In the same year, there was also a reduction in the number of those working in the agricultural sector as the main occupation, which also shows the ageing of the rural population. These performances are really bad in terms of the effectiveness of agricultural policy, but at the same time in terms of the financial instruments that have been developed so far, and they also demonstrate and demonstrate the continued abandonment of the countryside. Besides, we must not overlook the fact that the new National Development Programme 2021-2025, as we have seen from our recent parliamentary intervention as a Change Movement, is due to receive very low funding. The Government and the Ministry of Rural Development and Food mainly implement a technical management policy. It makes decisions and does not dare to tackle the structural problems facing the agricultural production and livestock sector so far. What is missing is a concrete plan, a specific policy, a national planning, which will set targets, will assess the course of the agricultural sector in an increasingly changing economic and social environment. At the same time, farmers and farmers are particularly vulnerable to danger and do not have - you know that well - neither the know-how to cope with this situation, nor do they have support in this direction. It is therefore necessary to have a holistic approach to risk management in the rural world, in order to limit the vulnerability of farmers and farmers in respect of their activities and to make them economically viable, without any need for lasting aid. This situation regarding the agricultural sector must be reversed immediately, as otherwise, instead of convergence with the European Union, there will be a divergence and further deterioration in economic performance. The agricultural production in Greece is peculiar, as the country, as you know well, has a small lot of lots, so that the modern practices of intelligent agriculture, in which the country generally lacks, cannot be exploited to the fullest extent. However, there are unique features that need to be exploited, such as the specific climatic conditions, the skilled human potential, as well as the country's good reputation in many products, and tourism can also be positively exploited to maximise product penetration in specialized products abroad. In the next few years - you also know it from the new production model, which we need to formulate - Greece must be a leading player in sustainable development, which concerns the agricultural sector. The practices of the past must be neglected. The farmer must produce products that respect the natural environment, creating additional value for him. There must also be a common agricultural policy and individual actions by the Ministry itself, and a central role will be played for this achievement, both by your own actions and by the differentiated culture that we now have to shape in the rural world. With regard to these contracts, we have said that the Change Movement supports the development of extrovert, as it is the only solution to achieve sustainable growth rates. It is therefore very important to shape those conditions at the strategic level in order to shape this situation. The absence of a strategy was therefore seen at a level of the rural economy in the last few years. However, we are here to monitor the implementation of the project, which you are implementing, with the best possible result. Therefore, because similar contracts such as this have been signed with the World Bank in the past and because we are in favour of working together on new studies and investment institutions, we are voting in favour of the contract between the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and the Bank for Reconstruction and we are giving you the opportunity to build your own plan and your own policy on the agricultural economy and the common agricultural policy. We will be here to control and provide, where necessary, a substantial and constructive opposition. As far as cooperation with Kuwait is concerned, I would like to point out that it is a small country, that has a significantly large per capita income and, therefore, a rural force, while a country's specificity lies in the fact that it is faced with total dependence on the issue of olive management, which should be one of the main export products that we can actually have the next time in our country. Here I must remind you, Minister, and your commitment to the table olive and its support, which must be made in the next few years. So, in conclusion, we are voting in favour of the two conventions and we are here in the next few years actually having a constructive debate, but above all a national planning, a national policy, as far as the part of the common agricultural policy is concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Pana. The reason is now the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Diamanto Manolakos, who will speak for both conventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u19	We have two conventions on the agricultural sector, and from the outset I am clear on what basis we are judging urban policy in this area as well. We believe that it aims to increase the productivity of labour, as a result of the competitiveness of the capitalist economy. To achieve this objective is to strengthen the objective of the concentration of agricultural production and its control of processing from commercial industrial and banking capital and on a course of concentration of land, plant and livestock in large capitalist rural enterprises. This means immediate release of small and medium-sized farmers. Today there is a significant volume of production, estimated at about 40%, which is still produced by small and medium-sized farms, and this partly restricts the functioning of the market, as they ensure the necessary raw materials in processing and commercial monopolies. However, there is a great deal of latch between market prices and retail prices for the people. They are contradictory aspects, however, they serve the overall direction of strengthening capitalist profitability. That is why all governments over time and urban parties, despite their individual differences, support them as a one-way path. Therefore, starting from the SPARTA contract between the Ministry of Rural Development and the World Bank for Reconstruction, a branch of the World Bank, will not change anything for small and medium-sized farms. We recall that the World Bank has offered services to several sectors of state administration and to all Greek governments. He worked with them in the period of the memoranda, in order to enforce the memorial conditions under which the exploitation of the working class and the popular strata of our country has escalated. I would remind you that such awards, such as the World Bank, have been made in the past by the Association of Greek Industrialists and the Association of Greek Banks, at McKINSEY a few years ago, a study on the primary production and processing of agricultural products entitled "Greece 10 years later". So the essence is that this agreement concerns the provision of advisory and detailed support to form the Greek strategic plan for the common agricultural policy 2021-2027. In the European Parliament we voted against the new CAP in the debate that took place. We will do the same in the Greek Parliament if there is a debate. However, the debate in the European Parliament has highlighted the growing competition between the monopolies of the green economy and new technologies, namely intelligent agriculture of precision on the one hand and traditional sectors on the other, such as the agricultural input industry in fertilisers, plant protection and others. And, of course, apples are the high funding of the CFP, where all these resources come from the end of the people and end up at the altar of the competitiveness of business groups. The strategic plans promote the more flexible fulfilment of the objectives of the Common Agricultural Policy by continuing supervision and evaluation of their effectiveness by the institutions of the European Union The main criterion of the CFP rules on the environment, climate, certification and quality production standards from the farm to the plate, which will also serve the strategic plan of Greece, is, in our opinion, to strengthen certain monopolies such as 'cyclical' and 'green' economy, digital technology colossians, etc., but also to put obstacles to competing forces - USA, Brazil, China - which do not apply corresponding regulations. But all this has nothing to do with protecting the environment and satisfying the people's needs for safe and quality food. The adjustments made by the new CAP to direct payments and, more generally, to the subsidy scheme will continue to support certain parts of the self-employed farmers - others will be rejected - but will continue to strive to end up with commercial industrialists who want cheap raw materials. All governments, after all, support them. The measures to promote the establishment of interbranch organisations and to symbolise the production, flexibility of producer groups and organisations shall aim at the need to further concentrate production and strengthen control by capital. The forecasts for the new crisis reserve and the risk management tools do not concern the protection of small and medium-sized farmers against natural disasters with their prevention infrastructures and allowances. They are related to the need to ensure capitalist profitability alone. In fact, the text of the Convention refers to the need for recommendations and institutional arrangements for the ELGA, which are based also on a proportionate analysis of its sustainability. Our people have experience of what they will say 'analogue study'. You said the same thing about insurance and, finally, you didn't leave a stone standing up. You broke everything. We are therefore voting against this agreement. As far as the ratification of a memorandum with Kuwait is concerned, we are in favour of peace, friendship and equitable cooperation between the peoples. However, this is not an agreement of peoples' interests but businessmen. With Kuwait the agreements have been made with the previous governments - and the previous one and the previous one - and they have benefited nothing from the people, because they are about the business profits of the groups. Now comes the renewal of the Greek agreement - Kuwait. The piece of industry was discussed twenty days ago. We voted against it. The Minister for Development said it clearly: he is interested in Kuwait, because he will rebuild his economy and infrastructure by 2035. It'll spend hundreds of billions. And the government, which believes in capitalism, wants Greek businesses to get a share. He was clean. That's the target. That is where the cooperation agreement, which concerns agriculture, plant and animal production, genetic improvement, everything, I would say, in the agricultural sector, is also aimed at creating business partnerships and agreements between groups with a view to increasing their competitiveness. But not only does the strengthening of capitalist competition not only improve the position of workers and small and medium-sized farmers, but it crushes them by increasing exploitation and by imposing prices below costs on farmers' products, so that industrialists and major traders in the agri-food sector and more generally in processing are more competitive. I mean, they're buying short-terms to make a bigger profit. At the same time, however, the people pay a heavy price for extroversion at high prices in a number of food products. That is to say, the criterion for this agreement is not the people's people's people's people's needs and cooperation for mutual benefit, but the need for entrepreneurs to penetrate into new markets, whose satisfaction is in the design of more general imperialist and planning and competition. For us, agricultural production must be designed on the basis not of capitalist gain but of covering people's food needs, thus eliminating hunger and malnutrition. The same applies to the state trade we believe to be in order to meet the ever-growing needs. And that is not isolation, as the Minister has tried to present to the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u20	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u21	I'll be done. Trade was with the former socialist countries and Greece. They bought oranges from Greece for the needs of their peoples and took buses. These were cut with the European Union and the Community preference, the protectionism that the European Union had at the time in the 1980s. So we are also voting against the Kuwait agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Vassiliardos has the floor from the Greek Solution. The Greek Solution is at both times. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot quote the recent inadmissible attack by the Parliamentary spokesman of the JRC on his colleague and on our side with pedestrian expressions and for no reason at all, as his colleague simply expressed his opinion. Something like that was done at the same meeting by his rapporteur, although with milder expressions, without answering it, since we certainly do not want to compete with its level. Such extreme phenomena are unacceptable in the House and should not be accepted. In the Kuwait Convention we have already mentioned to the committee how we will vote against it, such as the Qatar and Azerbaijan which the government has fortunately withdrawn, because of its cooperation with Turkey. Having said that, there is no reason to repeat them - such as the fact that Kuwait has called for the establishment of a military base from the neighbouring country which has no good relations with Israel or with the United Arab Emirates. As far as the agricultural sector is concerned, we have noted that Kuwait has very small agricultural production, only 0.4% of GDP of 305 billion dollars, with its secondary sector of 58% and its tertiary sector 41%. However, given that it is largely based on oil for up to 90%, the reduction in its prices and private consumption as well as because of its pandemic caused large deficits. In 2019 it had a deficit of 18.4 billion dollars, and this year it estimated the deficit at 46 billion dollars, as we will testify in the Minutes. These deficits are covered by new borrowings, but have recently been degraded by "MODY'S" by two levels in A1 - which is still very good - and we will submit to the Minutes. The country, of course, has one of the largest national investment funds in the world, which manages 592 billion dollars divided into two parts at the Kuwait General Reserve Fund and at the Kuwait Futures Generations Fund. Having mentioned agriculture, its problems with water and the fact that it introduces 96% of its foods, we will only add that it is important for the country, with particular emphasis on shrimps. This is an area that Greece was leading before the crisis, and today Turkey has overrun us by fishing in the Aegean even in our own regions, since we have not defined fishing zones, and also by exporting to the European Union unjustly. Recently, however, the State capital of Abbu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, together with the fund, has set up an investment fund of EUR 400 million for investments in fish farms and, more generally, in the primary sector in our country, as we will present in the Minutes. So there are other countries to work together, as obviously the United Arab Emirates. In conclusion, the Convention is general and provides for cooperation on funding from international organisations, but it does not specify them. The General Accounting Office of the State does not mention any costs, but it will certainly exist, while in any case Kuwait has nothing to offer us to agriculture, unless it was committed to financing Greece or joint research. Continuing the Convention with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, a subsidiary of the World Bank working with the IMF, we said it was about drawing up a strategic plan for agriculture and rural areas, such as the choice of crops, support for others in the context of the European CFP and climate conditions or changes. In addition, we mentioned what the cost study of 950 thousand dollars includes asking whether it will be carried out remotely by the United States to cover on-the-spot work, for example, the seminars from the Ministry, without getting an answer. We have also referred to the recent possible costs which have not been included in our remarks and questions, which have not been answered: firstly, is it right for the public to pay any compensation for the claims of third parties? Secondly, what kind of treatment can cause a study and not the World Bank to take over, but we have to take it? Thirdly, why should such a study be commissioned when the bank itself says that it cannot commit itself to the success of its proposals? For the first time we have seen this in a study. And, fourthly, who will be involved, with what study and with what experience, both in general and in the specific work? Also, how many hours will it take and at what cost? In our view, they are questions which should be answered, so that at least we know what exactly we are seeking to do with the convention. Furthermore, by researching similar studies by the World Bank and its subsidiary, we have seen that it concerns developing and emerging countries such as Africa and Latin America, and we have found no one for the European Union, absolutely none of them. For example, they relate to contracts with Nigeria, Peru, Skopje and other things that we will table in the Minutes. On the other hand, we have asked why the World Bank should undertake such a study, since we have never seen a positive result from the experts from the international organizations, after ten years of monuments that lead us firmly from evil to worse today, how much more so since there are Greeks to prepare something similar, with so many experts from our country. So we asked whether some people are imposing this on us, and whether this is another memorial term, where the Minister, as far as I was informed, said that he signed all the memorials, so I guess he confirmed them. Finally, we said that the study mentioned absolutely nothing about the investment required and the financing of agriculture, which is extremely problematic after the closure of the Agricultural Bank, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. We have concluded by emphasising that we have an integrated programme for the primary sector, which includes what the bank asks for, much more like food adequacy, seed bank, wealth creation, both in existing farms and with additions, increasing income, productivity, employment and land, favourable taxation, synergies with processing, support for sensitive areas such as remote areas, the introduction of fishing zones, protection from imports from third countries, especially when they produce regulations that do not apply to producers in Greece, the reduction of energy costs, insecure work and so on. There is, therefore, too much, which is not included in the study at all. We have closed down with the question of insurance referred to in Action 4, indicating that a kind of mutual fund will be proposed to mitigate the consequences of agricultural risks. We have asked here, among other things, whether the rumours about the privatisation of the ELGA and the increase in premiums apply. We hope to get an answer. To conclude, for all the above, such as costs, the exposure to additional costs and legal risks, the non-reference of an experienced project group, etc., voted against the contract. And yes, it needs a strategic study - it is absolutely necessary - but it can be carried out by the Ministry in collaboration with other bodies and especially with Greek scientists. Six hundred thousand of our children have left abroad. We have to do everything we can to get them back. And here we are really given the opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u24	Mrs Fotini Bakadima has the floor from Mera25. Merra25 is in favour of the Kuwait Convention and declared "present" for SPARTA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of agriculture and primary production for Merra25 is enormous. We have tabled an integrated programme from the outset. Also, throughout the debate these months, as many times as we have spoken about the rural area, but even on the occasion of the pandemic, we have tabled proposals on how we could support farmers and citizens. For example, I will mention - and I will not extend, to be consistent in time - our proposal to become a last-minute buyer state, so that indisposed products due to the measures taken in the first phase of the management of a pandemic, nor to remain indisposed to producers, so that they suffer enormous damage, but neither will our citizens be left out without first-hand items. Our proposal was for the state to buy them and have them available to our citizens who need them. We've talked about agricultural oil that's still on hold. We have tabled proposals and we will be here to put forward and enrich as much as we can, but we believe that when we debate this House, we must discuss with clear proposals. By passing now in the Convention on the transformation of the countryside, it is a contract on the provision of evaluation services the SPARTA project from the World Bank. One would say it's a process that we might be obliged to do. It is worth and we would like an answer, however, if we are obliged to be assessed by this body, as indicated in the explanatory statement, to draw up this plan, which is necessary for the implementation of commitments concerning the new CFP, the Green Agreement on Europe, the Farm from Piato and the biodiversity strategy. For the record alone, I would just mention that the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is one of the five organisations that compose the World Bank's overall organisation. In particular: the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Development Agency, the International Fund for Financing, the Multilateral Investment Insurance Agency and the International Centre for Investment Differences. The first two are the World Bank, which, together with the International Monetary Fund - a very familiar organization with us - are the most important international financial institutions that define a little - very much global economic governance. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development finances middle-income countries, as well as credit-intensive developing countries, while the International Development Agency focuses exclusively on the poorest, who would otherwise not have access to international capital markets. Both are governed by the same hierarchical structure and share rather - very much the same staff, while differentiation comes in the kinds of loans it grants to governments, but also in the sources of raising their capital. The International Bank for Reconstruction was established in 1945 to support the reconstruction process in Europe. It provides lenders with access to capital in terms which are more favourable than those of international capital markets. A large part of its capital comes from international financial markets. If we look at the content of the contract ourselves, we will see that it is one, in some ways, simple ratification of a management advisory agreement. That is why we choose 'at present' in our vote. I shall conclude by saying this: we do not think that individual interventions and policies can be made in the agricultural sector. That is why we consider it necessary to have an extensive debate so that all parties can have a debate - because we have proposals, and Mera25 and others - to finally draw up an integrated programme for the agricultural sector, so that we do not see our farmers asking ourselves every time a natural disaster occurs - if there is to be a solution to their damage from the ELGA, that we do not have any unsavoury products, that we do not have middlemen who raise prices, by launching them on first-hand items. More generally, it is at last a time to draw up a holistic and comprehensive plan for the country's agricultural sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Stamenitis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief in my place. I would simply like to make a few comments on what has been heard today in plenary. There is, at the moment, a crucial issue in the primary sector not only for Greece, but for all the countries of the European Union, that of shaping the new CAP. As I said in committee, we have the opportunity at this time to formulate the framework on which the development of the primary sector will be supported for the coming years, fully respecting the rules laid down in the European framework and the European Commission. In other words, we are in a transitional period between the previous programming period and the new one. In this period all the Member States - and so Greece - have an obligation to draw up the strategic planning, which must be approved by the European Commission. What does the government do - quite rightly? In particular, the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food shall conclude a contract with the World Bank. In short, it is addressed to experts to ensure strategic planning. It will exhaust every margin we have to make use of all means to improve the position of the Greek producer and strengthen the role of the primary sector in Greece, which must be the driving lever of the economy and the reconstruction of the country. Therefore, in order to achieve the best result in the development of strategic planning, the Ministry is "exploiting" the bank's international and specialised experience. It is about know-how, about the one it has on development issues. It takes the example of managing similar studies prepared for other states. And finally, it incorporates good international practices into our country's strategy for the new CAP. This, as we have said, will happen at a very low cost of the state budget. But there are others that have been heard about whether the Ministry is dealing with the issue of farmers for the coronary, or whether it has a strategy. Only the contract with the European Bank demonstrates that the Ministry has a strategic planning, not only for the new CAP, but also for the general agricultural policy. As to the support and political choices of the Ministry for Farmers, have you not heard what has happened to farmers, asparagus, fishermen, what has happened to greenhouses? It is good to have an opposition, but we need to talk about specific things, because that is specific. It is a concrete fact that the ELGA budget has been strengthened and the farmers have been paid the whole amount in the summer. It is specific that a solution has been found to the issue of land workers arising from the coronary. It is specific that producers affected by the restrictive measures to deal with the pandemic have started to receive compensation. It is specific what the State Secretary has signed to simplify payments for the payment of 50% of the improvement plans. It is specific that, if necessary, the ELGA budget will be strengthened and in 2021. It is specific that the revision of the ELGA is under way through this convention, so that we can move on to new coverage, but also see new possibilities. It is clear that we have achieved an increase in the amount for our country for the new CAP. So, ladies and gentlemen, criticism is a good one and indeed necessary one, but let us have on the back of our minds that it must be done usefully and constructively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u28	We shall now proceed to the speeches of the parliamentary representatives. We'll turn from the end to the beginning, unless you want to change. Mr Grigoriadis has the floor for five minutes and with the tolerance that has previously existed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much for giving me the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday our Greek democracy can now officially be called police democracy. A great good, therefore, both to Mr Chrysochoidis and Mr Mitsotakis and to the leadership of the Greek Police to bring in the hundreds of seven great dangerous people of these people, as dangerous, who were finally arrested two, three or four of them. The rest of them were released as soon as their identity was established. So our congratulations on these arrests, on these incubations. As well, to give our excellent congratulations to the Minister of Civil Protection and EL.AS. on the dismantling and arrest of the wilderness, let me say - of the family who has been smuggling Sepolis for years with its action. Like, of course - so that we do not forget this - congratulations to the immediate response of the terriblely asymmetrical terrorist threat by a twenty-year-old jihadiist a few days ago in Carditsa, which only two men of the Greek police managed to clean up on the ground, neutralize and arrest without even - and that is why I want your attention and the people who listen to us on their TVs - these two policemen to have to wear their masks from their service to limit pandemic. These masks only wear them when they have to conceive or covet from Varoufakis, Koutsuba and above. And since we have reached this point, have you really beaten - and not by mistake - three Members of the Communist Party of Greece? Did you really stop seven Members from walking to Athens, in the regions that are elected, putting before them as a human police force dam? You really put these new kids, the newly formed O.D.S.P.D.P.D.P.D. to initiate their activities on a pan-Hellenic basis by abolishing constitutional rights of elected Members? What's wrong with these new kids? Two days now, ladies and gentlemen, in particular, of the Coupling, we are trying to answer the torture question for us: why did you not let us move on a hundred more steps to get to the US Embassy? What would we do? Would the seven elected Members of the Greek Parliament and Mera25 fire and burn the US base? You have allowed us, in fact, to move three miles almost undisturbed by the police forces in the heart of Athens. From the University of Polytechnic we started, from the gate, upped the Stadium, passed through the Greek Parliament, three times we met brigades or - I don't remember exactly - high-ranking policemen, however, of EL.AS., we discussed with them, we showed our parliamentary identities, the constitution was applied and we continued to move forward. So you put these kids, which you had produced so densely, of the O.D.O.S. team, which you certainly risked. Seems in the photos, Minister. Stay with love, I think. It seems and it is clear that these children are touching each other for four hours. We were seven people sitting on the ground five meters away, and I assure you that we have kept throughout the course, which we have had every right to do, as we are Members of the Greek Parliament. We can be anywhere on the ground whenever we want. That's what the Constitution says. These children, however, were "sarded" four and a half hours above us, as you "sarded" and the Communist Party of Greece a little later, when - we all saw them on television - the thousand five hundred progressed. That was other policy than us. We didn't. We said that for us it is a danger. But we do not judge their own choice. We saw, however, on television that distances were such that no one was in danger of a thousand five hundred, until - oh of the miracle! - They're attacking the MATs and they're beating them like physarmonics and they're making them have no distance either of them or the MATs and then they're beaten. He tormented us too much to understand why all this is happening. We thought: 'What is it?' Is it, like, a force show? Is this a demonstration of authoritarianism? Is it the raw statement that, from now on, will Greek democracy be a hormone? Will it be a Hungarian democracy? Is the proclaimer that you intend to rule by presidential decree, not to say royal and we all laugh? We're wondering. Do you know where we ended up? We're sure. We have come to the conclusion that all this has happened - to forget, not to think that the Prime Minister of the country, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has not been accepted to answer a week now whether he will eventually hire eight thousand permanents - at least a thousand of them - doctors - permanently repeat - doctors and health workers, whether he will finally set up a public body for a test, so that all Greeks can test and know where we are yet. You see, one day we're getting better and we're crying. And, above all, because you do not want to respond for a week to why you do not all entirely insist on the private intensifications of northern Greece, when they die every sixty or seventy of our people, most of whom in northern Greece. That is why you have crossed all the limits of democratic legitimacy that you have targeted and finally hit parliamentary forces. I would remind you here, in passing, that he did not dare to do that the paradox of the Right, when the huge doctor and MP, Christos Lambrakis, walked Marathon's historic path along the path of peace. And then I remind you that the government was banned. The Member was not prevented from carrying out it. You have treated Yanis Varoufakis worse, more anal and less democratic than the paratroskevi has been treated with Christos Lambrakis. Keep it for the story. I will not get too tired of you and I will be done in a minute, Mr President. For us all these questions were answered the other day. We know very well why you hit the Communist Party. We know well why you prevented us. You didn't even do it to crush us like a mosquito or a mosquito. You did so in order to turn the public's interest in losses - because now the losses are many and I fear that more will be done - than the pain in losing their fellowman, because you have not been prepared for eight months now and because you have opened the borders completely stupidly - in early July - and it is the only thing that has changed to make the pandemic a reality. Besides, the Minister for Development, Mr. Georgiadis, a week ago, said to me 'National Grazia', because I supposedly only saw that in the summer the opening of borders was responsible for the pandemic, while forty-eight hours later he went out to the 'MEGA' and said: 'We were wrong. In summer he was responsible for increasing the pandemic, for opening the borders." And then immediately the Prime Minister went out to say that we did not understand what the Minister for Development said, that with what he said something else. I will close by telling you this: I want you to know - and I tell you with a lot of love - that since the evening before you handed over your party, which we honor almost all the other parties here - Mr Bogdano, Mr Georgiadis and Mr Plouris, the end of the terrible governance of your prolongation has begun. You can't imagine. You're still smiling. You should know that the beginning of the end of your government took place the other day and all the people know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u30	We just have to be equal to the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u31	Did he kick your ass?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u32	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u33	He kicked you out. Why are you reacting? The world has it, ladies and gentlemen, you have finished - you also have hidden pride. Enjoy your maids.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u34	The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Kegeroglou, has the floor. Mr. Karathanasopoulos and Mr. Hetas will not speak because he has a problem. Mr Kegeroglu, please also say about the amendment you have tabled, so that the Minister can tell us whether it will be accepted. After Mr. Kegeroglu, the Deputy Minister, Mr. Skrekas, will speak and we will continue. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement has been dealt with responsibly since the first moment not only in Greece, but the problem of coronary and pandemic emerged worldwide. From 22 January - I would remind you - we have called on you to take steps to prepare the National Health System and control gateways from the country. Unfortunately, for fifty days, you have failed. This feature of inertia and the wrong choices are condemned and controlled along the way, at the same time as the many well-processed proposals that we have submitted to you to deal with both the problem with prevention and protection measures and the impact it has on society and the economy. And this is where the government has a huge deficit. It has a huge deficit and this seems to us and the question that we have tabled today, in which we urge you that you do not have a comprehensive plan to use the resources sufficient for the short-term, EUR 74 billion, for the next four to seven years, but also EUR 19.5 billion, if we add the resources of the Common Agricultural Policy. It is resources that are not exploited because there is no overall plan for the government to have worked out and has come here to talk about it, resources that could be even more, because, as has been shown today by the communication from the European Commission, Greece has received EUR 2.7 billion from the 'SURE' to support work, unlike Portugal, which has received EUR 5.9 billion and much more from Belgium - the small Belgium - which it has taken - please! -7,8 billion euros. However, there are some areas where your failure is more characteristic. Television education: we said there were problems at European level, but here you are imprisoned. Not only do you not care to have an alternative plan, but you are not preparing all this time for the system to deliver. Is this just the responsibility of some European politicians? No, not at all! Is it just the responsibility of the Ministry of Education? No way! Where's the famous Department of Digital Policy? That's his subject matter. Where is he? In fact, we see it being the first in polling as a so-called successful ministry. It's a total and abundant failure! I say this in knowledge and the priorities it has set. The priorities set by the Ministry of Digital Policy are to get pieces of policies from the other Ministries, the EUR 31 million of the Ministry of Rural Development, to do - says - digital agriculture - goes a competence -, the responsibility to finance film works by the Ministry of Culture. In other words, it deals with pieces of other ministries and not with the priority for which there is a need now and which can be done, because there is technology. I come to the issue of the agricultural sector. Unfortunately, because there are too many examples that we have problems in general with the support of businesses, professionals, workers and the weak, today I will concentrate on the agricultural sector. Minister, in the past few days you have made a decision to support olive production, a sector which has suffered a variety of times over the last few years in our country and especially from the pandemic. You have excluded hundreds of thousands of oil producers that are not considered to be mainly farmers. All over Greece this. He has an explanation. That's how the government decided. But tell us why you forgot about three hundred thousand acres of oil producers in Mytilini, Thassos and Central Greece. Why did you exclude them? Is it a simple error of the codes, or is it a sign of your curiosity? Because the codes for these producers were both the old and the new at the disposal of your services, OPEKEPE and the Ministry of Rural Development. You must immediately include them and - take care - without reducing the EUR 30 on the acreage, with additional resources obviously. And here is the agreement, I believe, that the President-in-Office, Mr Athanasios, since a traditional olive-growing region such as Lesvos, you have excluded it, you have forgotten it. I now come to the amendment we have tabled on the damage to Crete. What does this amendment say in simple words? Instead of making a month more red tape to see how you will incorporate these damages into the framework that has been integrated or similarly treated by the damage to 'January', we say in an article that has three paragraphs that the provisions of Law 4728/2020, Articles 1 to 8, as well as of Law 4737 concerning the agricultural sector, also apply to Crete without having to make any ministerial decision, including the municipalities and regions within these provisions. This concerns you, Minister, above all because the agricultural sector has been severely affected. Law 4737, for example, stipulates that farmers who have been destroyed do not need to pay fees to estimate the damage. Well, in Crete they are told "if the beekeeper does not give", for example, "EUR 2 per hive, the ELGA valuer will not go, it is not considered valid to apply for the assessment". Why? Can you not say ‘we accept the amendment of the Change Movement’? If you do not accept it today, because you will invoke the international convention and so on, the government alone has a privilege to table amendments to international conventions, even though the content of the convention is relevant, I would like you to explain to us where you disagree with this amendment. I would ask you, particularly as regards compensation for the agricultural sector, to tell us where you disagree. Because it is nothing but a repetition of Law 4737, which you have recommended and we have legislated as a parliament. I come to the international convention - and I close with it - on cooperation with the World Bank. First of all, I wanted to say, to know, that it is under the obligation to prepare the national strategy, so that, in accordance with the heresy, the European Union's conditions, we can have the new CAP at our disposal, in accordance with this national strategy, which is primarily to be examined and approved by the European Union. The question is whether the Ministry of Rural Development at the last moment - and this concerns the previous government and you - comes to tell us 'you know, there is an obligation to make a national strategy, on the basis of which we will draw up the CAP proposals, on the basis of which the European Union has already taken decisions'. We are more retarded than retarded in this area. Of course, this is where we have to make it clear. The request was lodged in 2018. What request? To pay this contract from the resources of the Rural Development Programme. We want this document from the Ministry, Mr Skreka and Mr Voridis, to be submitted here for knowledge and compliance, because it has been said since then that there will be cooperation with the World Bank. I would ask that the document be lodged. The adoption came in 2020, and today we are very late. We do not want to give any alibi to the government for any loss of resources or malfunction in the preparation and approval of the CAP. We will vote for this convention, as our rapporteur has analysed, but I would like to point out the following: with the World Bank we have worked together, and I have had the honour of working with the Ministry of Labour with a contract signed by previous ministers, as well as with the SYRIZA, a contract has been concluded with the World Bank and we have worked together and we have worked on social policy issues, and now it is in all lawfulness and according to the international data that this convention should take place. I would like to ask, however, when it comes to European policy in the agricultural sector, on the common agricultural policy, why did there not be European bodies or national bodies which could process this? They could, there were, but neither did the previous ones nor you who chose the World Bank. And I am also going to say that while, although with the agreement with the World Bank, there could be added value with the delegation of individual studies to Greek institutions and bodies, whether they are universities or other research institutes, this is not provided for in the agreement. You should pursue it in the context of cooperation in order to remain added value in our country. And finally, on payment: There is, now, the NSRP, the possibility that all concerning technical assistance may be paid from the money that has been retained by the European Union. In other words, this sum could be paid by the European Commission, Minister, and not to the detriment of the resources provided for farmers and rural development. And I'm sure that's what I'm saying. It was wrong to do so, that is to say to be paid by the Rural Development Programme. It had to be paid by technical assistance that the European Union has retained. This was the case in other contracts with the World Bank and the OECD, which took place in previous government. And I do not understand why what was done by Development and Labour did not do so by Rural Development. Perhaps the previous Minister will explain it to us - although it is not here - but you can give us an explanation. In conclusion, I would like to say that while for many things that must be dealt with in the midst of a pandemic, unfortunately, unilateral and authoritarian decisions are taken, as in the case of mergers. The House has unanimously managed to observe the rules, which automatically means that, in knowledge, we have agreed not to all of us in here. It is indiscriminate that each Member should be in Parliament. But we agreed unanimously. The same thing had to be done out for the citizens, not with authoritarian and unilateral decisions that one another dragged from here and, of course, with respect for both the struggles and the dead of the Polytechnics and, above all, with what they wanted from us: All for man, his health, his environment and, of course, for man as a member of society, as a scientist, man as a citizen and a member of the Greek democracy, who should not be affected in any way, at the same time as the policy necessary to tackle the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr Konstantinos Skrekas, State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. First I'll start with the last one. Mr. Kegeroglu, I don't understand what document you're referring to. Let me give you a description of the procedure that preceded the introduction to the House of today's ratification. On 18 March 2020, we sent the first letter to the European Commission, asking us to approve the eligibility of funding from the Rural Development Programme of the agreement that we are debating today. On 23 April, the positive response came from the European Commission, namely the costs arising from the current contract between the Greek State and the World Bank, can indeed be financed from the Rural Development Programme. On 15 June we incorporated the SPARTA project, as the current agreement calls it, into the Rural Development Programme. On 12 June we sent an application to EADENSIS, which is the Independent Authority for Public Contracts, to deliver its opinion on the legality of the contract with the World Bank and the Greek State. On 22 June the response came from EFSA, the positive opinion and on 1 July we started the process between the various ministries, namely the Ministry of Rural Development, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, so that the necessary procedures can be completed and this convention can be ratified today. So I don't understand the date and document you're referring to. If you want, then you can report it to discuss it and explain it to you. I am also not going to go into what you mentioned and asked about olive crops. Minister Voridis will answer these questions. Let me comment, however, because I have listened very carefully, as I have heard very carefully, as both the SYRIZA rapporteur and the rapporteurs of the other parties - your reason for the fact that months have passed over the ratification of this agreement or that there has been a loss of time for us to be able to rebuild and submit the strategic plan for the new CFP for the next decade, which concerns the country's agricultural sector, the European Commission. I would like to tell you that Greece is within the timescales set by the European Commission. We are observing the deadlines set. I would like to say to you, too, and to inform you that the agreement - as I mentioned in the committee - is not the only agreement with the World Bank that we have made to help us draw up and draft the strategic plan. A contract with the Agricultural University of Athens has been signed with a very valid and, as we all know, an academic institution of Greece, which, in cooperation with the Agricultural University with the consultant company “LKN”, already offers the advisory services to the State, the Ministry of Rural Development. They do a great deal of work, very serious work, and we jointly work on the first deliverable, which Greece has a contractual obligation to present to the European Commission for approval - I am referring to the so-called SWOT analysis, namely the analysis of the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and challenges faced by Greek agriculture - in the context of the submission of a strategic plan or of the 'From Farm to Piato' strategy, so we have already made progress in this convention. I heard SYRIZA say that five months have passed since it began, as I described, the procedure - to ask for approval by the European Commission for the agreement with the World Bank - so far that we bring this agreement to ratification. SYRIZA's rapporteur said that ultimately there is no time left for these people to be able to provide the services. I will say - and it is worth noting this - that we, the Government of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis took over the rule of this place after the elections in July 2019. I want to say to you that initially the current programming period, the current CAP expired on December 31, 2019. With the initial - initial milestones and what the Greek Government should budget and provide, in theory, we should have finished the strategic plan for the new programming period by the end of 2019. This should have been done. This has, of course, changed later, because the European Commission has given an extension, because the Member States have requested an extension, because it has taken place all this time. It has finally been concluded by all the Member States, the European Commission and the Council, that the start of the new period will begin on 1 January 2023. This was not known by the previous government, which ruled from 2015 to mid 2019. What, then, had that government done over the four and a half years that it had been in power to prepare the strategic plan, which should have been originally - in theory - prepared by the government, by the end of 2019, so that the new programming period would begin? I'll tell you what he's done: Absolute zero! Mr President, SYRIZA's rapporteur, for four and a half years the SYRIZA government - the former Minister for Rural Development has been present for your days - has done absolutely nothing to prepare this strategic plan. Where does that look from? It seems to have begun the process of giving advice - which eventually ended up being the Agricultural University of Athens with the "LKN" - early 2019. If I remember correctly, March or May 2019, they started the competitive process to have the first consultant and this process was completed at the beginning of 2020. So you understand that the previous government - which is now coming with its parliamentary representative and blames the current government - has not even taken care of the consultant's selection procedure for four and a half years. Fortunately, I have to say that - and this, of course, does not honour the previous government - the deadlines have finally been extended and so the present government has had the time to complete the competitive procedures for the selection of the first consultant, but also for us to proceed with this agreement with the World Bank. Why are we starting this cooperation with the World Bank? I have heard the SYRIZA rapporteur - and I am surprised - repeat exactly the same objections and arguments that he has put forward to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and to which we have responded. What is the problem with the opposition party with this agreement? That there is supposed to be a bias on the World Bank and on the part of the executives who will be using this plan, which, as your rapporteur said, will have specific political directions. First of all, tell us what these political guidelines are and what you are condemning. Secondly, I also told you in Parliament - and I repeat today for those who did not hear it or understand it - that the SYRIZA government has concluded at least five contracts - agreements with the World Bank: for the deprivation of EUR 550,000, for the stock register of EUR 3 million, for the social solidarity allowance of EUR 1.5 million and for the simplification of the investment process in the Ministry of Development. Who were the ministers then? The Ministry of the Environment was Mr. Stathakis and Minister, Mr. Famelos, for the land register, was responsible for the social solidarity allowance, for which the government of SYRIZA celebrated, was Ms. Ahtsoglou, and the Ministry of Development Mr. Haritsis. All of these - if my memory doesn't cheat on me - remain top SYRIZA officials and run next to Mr. Tsipras every time he makes a announcement or some meetings. So, finally, when was the World Bank good to give advice to Greece, to the Greek State? Was it good in 2018, in 2017 and is it bad now, in 2020? What for? Because that was then the SYRIZA government and now is the New Democracy government? So that is not a serious argument and serious criticism. Why did we choose the World Bank? Firstly, because it has experience from at least three European countries, Romania, Bulgaria and Croatia in this programming period. It has undertaken to help the Croatian State prepare the overall strategic plan, and SWOT analysis and the other four deliverables, which I will mention below. Also, the World Bank has experiences and skills that have arisen from its cooperation, advice and research in the rest of the world, for example in Mexico, Chile, which are rural countries that have serious agricultural production. What do we want for Greek farmers? Because everyone here, and Mr Kegeroglu and many rapporteurs, have pointed out that the agricultural sector of Greece has problems, it is not a paradise. In each programming period it is about EUR 20 billion and in the last thirty years it has invaded the primary sector over EUR 50 billion of European money. After all, from EUR 50 billion, money invested in the agricultural sector, we see today that the agricultural sector in Greece is not what we would like to see. The Greek farmer is not as competitive as we would like, he does not enjoy the income we would like, he cannot stay in his fields, the land is abandoned, our fields and our villages are abandoned. So we have to change something.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Secretary, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u39	I shall conclude, Mr President. That is why we wanted to choose the best for our farmers. Together with the Agricultural University of Athens, together with the Greek scientists - because I have to tell you that in the World Bank team and the local team that it has in Greece again, Greek experts will be involved, including foreigners and Greek scientists and Greek academics, and in the World Bank team, because of course we do not exclude the Greeks, because in the end we have very much confidence in both their knowledge and their training and for the experiences they have - together with all of them - we believe that we will have the best result for Greek farmers. What will the World Bank do? It will complete four deliverables, ex ante assessment (ex ante) of the strategic plan, strategic environmental assessment of the impact of the strategic plan on the new CFP, the development of a risk management framework for agriculture in Greece, which is very important, and the development of an investment plan for smart agriculture, because we want the digital transition of Greek agriculture. I would urge you, as long as this debate lasts, to reconsider your decision and to do what your predecessors did when they ruled this place, with the choice of course of the Greek people, who proceeded with the conclusion of agreements with the World Bank. In this way, we will help Greek farmers to get the best possible advice to achieve the best possible strategic plan, so that we can change the pathogens and bad texts and improve the positives that we must recognise in the meantime that has taken place in the country's primary sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Minister. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Stavros Arahovitis, now has the floor, and then the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr. Bukoros, will speak and we will close with the Minister for Rural Development, Mr. Maki Voridis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, following the tragic images of anti-democratic power on the day of the Polytechnic Memorial celebration, following the health bomb that the government caused with the assembling of thousands of police officers, jeopardizing their lives and safety, after the saturation of intensive treatment units and the tragic lack of beds and personnel, after the platform was presented for the strengthening of oil producers, in addition to the other problems with the varieties it presents, we are still waiting with the citizens for the realities and not in terms of communication. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to your ratification we have said by our rapporteur and to the committee that we have reasons for considering the SPARTA Convention with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as challenging. The first reason is that the contract relating to such a large project and so much amount is awarded directly without any competitive procedure. The second challenge is the amount as such envisaged for the preparation of this study. The third reason is that this work is being undertaken. You exclude the Greek universities and scientific bodies from participating in such a competition and not only, instead of showing confidence in the Greek scientific community, you bring the Greek universities and the scientific community into a role being evaluated for the preliminary draft of strategic planning. As far as the sum in itself is concerned, the EUR 950,000, as you can see, comes directly to a question of reasonable costs. We had prepared the tender for the two required studies, the ex ante and the management tools in the government of SYRIZA, Mr. Skreka. They were ready, with 120,000 euros each, a total of 240,000 euros. You found them ready. You, the 240,000 euros, made it a million. Do you understand the amount? You found it all ready. We've prepared them for you since 2019. Here's your first lie. You said the extension had not been announced. The extension of the current CAP had already been announced since the end of 2018. We already knew that the timetable would be two years. The draft, therefore, of the strategic planning was commissioned by the SYRIZA government with half a million euros in the Greek universities and you are now coming to assess it twice as much as you can. But you said another lie, and other inaccuracies from this Step. Let me inform you that the World Bank has been studying Greece since 1979. Don't confuse international organizations. I will present to you in the Minutes from the World Bank's official website the works taken by the World Bank in Greece, where the latter was in June 1979. We were kids then. I'll put that in the Minutes. Let us make it clear that, as far as this agency is concerned, we have no objection to its staff with its scientific training. And if you wish, philosophical approach to how such an organization sees Greek agriculture - philosophical - would perhaps make sense. But here I think it is too much to talk about such an amount - without experience in the European space, in Greece and in the primary sector - as well as in the direct delegation of such an important instrument. We have to look at the substance of the contract here. At no point in the convention - in the five components - you are not talking about considering either the social specificities or the employment contribution or the qualitative diversity that we have in Greece. Is it not even worth studying the research issues in the institutes and how they enter primary production under the conditions of Greece? There is a differentiation in Greek agriculture. You know well that the majority are small and very small farms. We have a differentiation of relief, we have different microwaves. It is not the same with Croatia, which you mentioned, nor with any other country to which the World Bank is involved. The political direction and ideological manipulation, however, appears on two points. Because you asked me to talk to you. I'll see you around. The first is the reference to competitiveness. It mentions nothing but competitiveness in the five components. So what is competitiveness? It's the cheapest. Cheapest olive oil, cheapest edible olive, cheaper grape and wine. This means cheaper than competition. Doesn't that mean competitiveness? Is that what you want? Is that what you're asking for evidence from the World Bank? Tell us. The second is, however, the insurance of production against physical risks and the public - ELGA. Yes, sir. The World Bank will examine the role of the public and private sectors. But you admitted that there is no interest in private enterprises, such as the framework now, because they obviously do not generate a profit. So what do you expect, the World Bank to indicate to you the model of increasing insurance premiums or reducing the impact covered, so as to create the way for profitable private insurance agencies? It seems clearly of these that there is a neoliberal logic within the contract. Not to say, as our rapporteur mentioned, about the colonial conditions that exist in the Convention, in the annex on standard terms. Don't read now. In point 3a(iii), it says that ‘the recipient, i.e. the Ministry, must always allow the staff of the bank to have access to premises, facilities, staff and any documents relating to the execution of the RAS’. Not to ask, to have access. It's a series of others. You have said one more thing about memorials in the committee. We're not in comitology anymore. Since August 2018, with SYRIZA government, the country is not in comitology. Unless you mean the statements made by the Deputy Minister of Finance that the allowances and payments given during the pandemic period will be paid later on in taxes. What does that mean? Is that prepared for a possible fourth memorandum? Well, let's know, so do we. With these considerations, therefore, I think you should review at least the terms and requirements of the World Bank if you insist on continuing. So I now come to the Minutes to see the works that the World Bank has taken and since when did the World Bank in Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u42	The Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Bukokokouros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, I should like to express my sincere support for the few words of 'French' which have been heard in this Chamber, completely regardless of the subject. However, it really is so much to think about the attempt to impress and exploit events, especially events that took place on the day before yesterday, and some of the answers that were due must be given because some of our colleagues and representatives of the opposition parties here are burning up the great fighters of democracy, but they must realise that they are not like those who wanted to honour at all. And what was created then. Because those who wanted to honour did not fight the decisions and laws of a democratically elected government, as happened the other day. Because the day before yesterday, deliberately and with a clear political aim, decisions and laws of a democratically elected government were violated. And the great democracy fighters systematically silence this, by making inappropriate, unrelated, opportune and void correlations, trying to compare governments, powers and seasons, just to gain some small-party benefits. And, indeed, what time? Amongst the pandemic wave, which, in fact, leaves hundreds of victims behind, perhaps fewer victims in our own country - and I hope they will stay - in relation to other countries similarly populated. However, the fingerprint of the pandemic is intense both in health and in society and in the economy, and that should...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u44	The sanitary measures...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u45	Please, Mrs Manolakou, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u46	...to make us more careful!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u47	The police attacked her with the government's responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u48	Mrs Manolakou, let's not interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u49	Don't be provocative! He's talking on top!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u50	Listen, the measures that...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u51	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u52	Do I have the floor, Mrs Manolakou? Do I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u53	Please. Let's take it easy. We're having a good conversation. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u54	It is that, you know, in the context of the democratic functioning of the culture and Parliament. So I tell you that the measures that have deliberately been infringed and created were purely health measures. So those who want to do other, unscrupulous parallels are monitored, if you like, by the Greek people and everyone goes to the position defined by the Greek people. From there on, Mr. President, because we are talking...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u55	Arrests like sardines in patrol cars!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u56	Well, look, as much as you can, Mr. President, if we're working either from the Step of the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u57	Let's narrow it down, because it's exhausted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u58	...or from the telematics windows, in any case, the impressions are hard...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u59	Keep going. Let's come to the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u60	We are therefore coming to rural development because they are, in fact, serious issues and I wonder how some are wasting their time without saying a single word about rural development, which is so crucial for the nutritional adequacy of our people and for strengthening the extroversion of the economy by exporting agricultural products. What do we hear today in this bill? SYRIZA's finger moves us to co-operation with the World Bank, when the SYRIZA government had signed in other areas, other ministries - Environment, Social Protection, etc., - contracts of 6,000 euros. They are saying half the truth in this matter today. The fact that those contracts were also paid directly by the European Commission as technical assistance, but from resources that would come to Greece, does not make them less contracts. It was resources that would come to Greece and were channelled to the World Bank by the European Commission to make specific studies commissioned by the SYRIZA Government. Secondly, you tell us that this contract is being given without a competition, ignoring that the World Investment Bank is a non-profit bank, it is not a speculative bank. Why is this convention signed, ladies and gentlemen? In order for the Greek farmer and the Greek farmer to have access to world best practices, in tools and above all to incorporate the global trend of agriculture in order to protect production, develop and become, at last, competitive. Because, indeed, it can be a crucial area for economic development, but with old tools and old weapons, we cannot cope with new threats to new wars. Agricultural policy and competitiveness, knowledge management and advisory system, agricultural - ecological living and risk mapping and analysis are only some of the objects of the contract. To talk, however, about rural development - to go to the last part of my position - SYRIZA colleagues and colleagues, first of all, why have you recently ruled, who should be the driver? The guide must be the protection of existing production and the application of new methods and tools to develop this production. And what is today's leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development? Protects agricultural production? We had the pandemic thing. First of all, the primary sector - and fortunately - was affected less by other sectors such as services. In fact, it is indicative that exports to certain categories of production have increased by 20% - up to now - in 2020. Has the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development remained there? Do you not know that the European Union's green light was taken by strengthening olive oil production with EUR 126 million? Do you not know that the edible olives and the Kalamon olives were subsidized with another EUR 13 million and then thereafter? Don't you know that Greek flowerers for the first time received EUR 11.5 million? Don't you know about the asparagus? Do you not know about the Greek fishermen who have taken EUR 15 million for the first time de minimis and yet the fund of the Ministry of Rural Development remains strong and strong because it has leadership to manage, who knows how to make targeted aid without populism, and to strengthen the areas affected? Don't you know that ovine and caprine farmers, gentlemen of SYRIZA, took 34 million for the loss of the meat? Do you not know that this leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development by Mr Voridis has passed the law on the Greeks with serious criminal consequences for offenders, which the impact of this law already reinforces the prices of sheep and goat milk in Greece by 5 or 10 minutes and is expected to exceed 1 euro, while on your days only the humiliation of the prices of sheep and goat milk has lost 100 million euros? Don't you know all this, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u61	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u62	As rural development issues are very serious and fundamental for the development of the country, I will close by a little surpriseing the Minister and saying that we should also see another area - and I conclude here, Mr President, having spoken less than the other parliamentary representatives - who are both innovative and modern and really affected by this pandemic and are the lavenders' sector. Minister, you know the product, the essential oils of the lavender are heading for cosmetology. With Lockdown throughout Europe, and in particular in France, the product of these producers is missing. They are few - about ten thousand acres in Greece - growers. I would ask the Ministry of Rural Development to see it. Why, in fact, these growers of a new innovative crop - as I said before - were hit in general. They are few, they have no expression, they do not have collective bodies, and that is probably why they did not reach the Ministry of Rural Development. Finally, I welcome the fact that the current leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, firstly, shields and protects production and, secondly, envisions a modern future for the Greek farmer, farmers and fishermen and proves it daily. And all those who work in the primary sector, work under difficult and unfavourable conditions and have the ability to understand who is plundering and who is demagogling and who is the good housewife who will lead them to progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u63	Thank you. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor for a supplement that he wants to do for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u64	For ten seconds I want to make a request to the Ministry. Because I said that the first time the Greek Government and, in particular, the Ministry of Rural Development requested approval in order to entrust World Bank, namely the World Bank or its subsidiary, this study in 2018, and I got the Minister's reply that this was in March 2020, I would ask that - because not only the Government has access to the documents, but also has the European Parliamentary control of the European Parliament, I have the document in my hands - officially, the Greek Government not to hide, to deposit the document. Don't you have Europe's answer the fourth month you're told OK? Do you have the 2020 document? Please testify. I don't even want the March request. In March you were asked to reply. The April answer, can you give it to us? That's the April answer I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u65	And not to be here will be notified, they will send it to you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Minister has the floor now. Mr. Secretary, until you come, I should like to say something to a question that Mr. Kegeroglu had, and in the light of the fact that I am from an oil-producing region too. It is, of course, a fact that what you have achieved in supporting 126 million is a huge amount and we are not talking about it now. It was a big success. Just the question is: Why should oil producers who are not primarily professional farmers, but private ones - let us say, a private employee who grows his farms - not take this aid? Is this a Community commitment or a decision of your Ministry? It's a question more generally, if you want. Thank you very much. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. I think I'll cover your question in my place. Allow me, however, because there have also been references to general issues, soon to be placed on them. These are more general issues of time and of agricultural policy in general. The truth is that the New Democracy Parliamentary spokesman has done an excellent job in his speech and so he is taking a weight away from me, but I will soon be talking about it. Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, on these incidents, which were mentioned above in particular in Mera25, allow me very briefly. Anyone who invokes the Constitution, and anyone who invokes unconstitutionality of the laws, I imagine, does so because he respects the Constitution. And whoever respects the Constitution respects the procedure laid down in the Constitution itself for who judges the unconstitutionality. And the Constitution itself stipulates that unconstitutionality is judged by two institutions. It is judged by the House and it establishes the so-called'supervisory control', the constitutional control of the courts. The first question: did the House consider the government's provisions on curbing movements on 17 November? Answer: No. Question 2, have the courts judged these provisions unconstitutional? Answer: No. But not only by their inertia, that is, they have not been taken over, but the highest court has been seized on constitutional matters, that is, the Council of State. And what did the Council of State say? 'Well, it's a good thing. Next item. Will representatives of Parliament, then, come in the name of the Constitution and tell us that the provisions judged as constitutional are unconstitutional? Do these colleagues who say that respect the Constitution? We're done with this. Let's go to the second, though. I have heard mainly from the side of Mera25: 'You know, something terrible and terrible happened with the MPs'. I do not know these facts, but they obviously, like all the facts, suffer legal control. Anyone who has complaints can appeal to the judicial authorities and say what he has to say. But to ask something else: is there an impression in this House that parliamentarians are something special that is excluded from the general application of laws? Where exactly is this provision coming from? Where does that say, what Constitution and what law? In carrying out their duties, Members have protections and immunitys, and yet not in breach of the laws. Is there anyone in the Chamber who claims that Members have the right to violate the law? Is that what you're saying? And I'm coming to third. I heard the worst argument from everything. That's the worst. He says, "But we have decided to do these meetings and we have decided to do them with respect to health provisions, taking safety measures." Yes, sir. Why, please, cannot that be said by the shopkeeper who has been shut down today, and say that: 'I want to open it and badly shut it down, and I will follow the security measures'? Why can't all the Greek citizens who are under restrictions in their movement, in their professional activity and say: 'We will do all that is forbidden by health restrictions'? Is that what you advise Greek citizens? To follow your example in dealing with pandemic? You tell them that the laws do not matter, that the provisions of the restrictions do not matter, but if anyone wants to, because they judge it, it will take security measures and it will violate the laws. Is that the model? Is that what the left parties are coming and they tell the citizens? I shall now proceed to the agricultural policy, the more general. You said, once again, that we are not standing next to people and the branches affected by pandemic. Mr. Bukouros told you. Let me tell you quickly: Florists, 11 million were given. Sheep and goatmeat, 30 million. Asparagus, five million. Fishermen, 11 million. People's markets up to the 25th of the month, 15 million. Total payments already amounted to 72 million. Authorized: Thermoscopes, 10 million. Potatoes, 13 million. Kalamata olives, 13 million. Watermelon, 3 million. In total these amounts reach 100 million. From measures under the Rural Development Programme: Oil producers, 126 million. Medium fishing, 25 million. This is a total of 251 million. We're preparing measures for figs, watermelon, grapes. We're preparing measures, we're evaluating further. I ask: which sector has remained unreliable?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u67	The aromatic plants again outside.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u68	I'll answer the particulars, the individual ones. But I say, what branch has remained unreliable?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u69	The rural economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u70	Yes, I get it. Can you tell me again, so we can end it? Let's end it! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And listen, Mr. Arachovitis, I am very understanding of everything...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u71	Do you want to have a dialogue like this now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u72	Whatever dialogue you want, we'll do. But you are telling me that we have not supported the rural economy. Can you tell me how much money you gave to the olives in your service, where you come from from Lakonia? How much exactly have you given?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u73	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u74	Let me tell you: Zero!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u75	Minister, don't hold a dialogue. Please don't hold a dialogue!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u76	So, can you tell me how much money the fish has received?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u77	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Arachovite, it's a rhetorical question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, there should also be a response, analogous.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u80	How much money has the fishing industry received? Let me tell you: Zero!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u81	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u82	Please, sit down, Mr. Arachovite. It's a rhetorical question. It's not a personal attack either. Please! Everything you say doesn't sound or write.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u83	As you know, I'm a fanatical holiday supporter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u84	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u85	Come on, please. Is that correct what you're doing? They don't write what you're saying, because you don't sound. How can I tell you? Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u86	I'm a fanatical holiday supporter, as long as I don't get my speaking time. So I say again: we have literally covered all sectors. But you asked me two specific questions. Mr Kegeroglu and Mr President have put them to me, especially with the support of the olive tree. First of all, why did we choose to support our professional oil producers rather than the whole oil production? The answer is very simple. Because our measures are targeted. They aim to support the professional farmer, especially in olive oil production, which is the biggest crop in our country and therefore, by exploiting - take care of what - the maximum amount we could use from the Rural Development Programme. And as far as the amount is concerned, Mr President, that is Community. So we have a Community limit on the amount. So we have the maximum amount, and at the same time we have to make a choice of allocation, which at the same time must have a real aid character. So we had to make a choice. Question: Why is this amount given? Because our oil producers were affected during the Koroni season. Yeah. What was hurt? Their income has been affected. Do non-professional farmers have incomes elsewhere? Yes, sir. Therefore, in your example, Mr President, a public producer of oilseeds has his wages, which were not affected by the coronary period, while the professional farmer has the sole income of agricultural production which was affected. So our logic is clear, square, clear and correct. Mr Kegeroglu asked me a specific question, and I know, Mr President, that before my Mr Kegeroglu you have put it, not in public, but in private, but in diligent and convincing terms, about a specific issue that has to do with the choices made in the OPEKEPE declarations, which we are using, but which we are using to calculate the area aid and the acres that need to be strengthened. So there has been a mistake there. This error will be corrected and covered without affecting the amount, Mr Kegeroglu. So this is something that will be settled in the next few days and there will be no matter what. I come to the amendment - I will respond to that and then go to the draft law - which has been tabled to me by the Change Movement. Mr Kegeroglu, because you referred to your amendment, I will not accept it. I will tell you why I will not accept it, and I want to be absolutely clear about it. We do not intend to make a general arrangement for the 'January'. The regulation of 'Janu' was an excellent regulation, precisely because it had to deal with special and exceptional circumstances. It was excellent legislation. That is why it is described as such. What Parliament has adopted, that is, areas, time and destruction are described. This therefore creates the excellent regulation. You will tell me: 'Why especially this excellent regulation?' The answer is: "Due to the tension and the extent of the catastrophe." So we are not generalizing this arrangement. It is not that for any damage done in each region we will apply the 'Janus' model. It was applied because it was a great disaster, extensive, in specific areas. So the rest of the other arrangements, apart from rural ones, are also the responsibility of other ministers. They may answer you. But I am telling you, as far as the ELGA and the ELGA regulations are concerned, that we will not accept it for that reason. I'm coming to the bill. I won't talk much about the Kuwait contract. I think it's a cooperation agreement with a state. It's not worth mentioning too much. She's positive. We hope that cooperation will proceed. We are promoting such types of agricultural cooperation at different levels. These cooperations are of interest to us, particularly, as I said, in the phytosanitary and phytosanitary certificates. We are therefore interested in this because it also facilitates our trade, regardless of the specific target for rural development. I come to the other convention, which has created more debate, to understand the objections. There is one, I would say, of a general order of objection, a more cosmetic objection, which comes from the side of the Communist Party. I will not go too far into this, in the sense that it expresses a completely different ideological, secular philosophy, with which the world no longer has anything to do with it - fortunately - and it is therefore something that has expired. So it is recorded as an opinion, but I do not think it needs a specific answer, precisely because it is in general context.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u87	He thought it would be eternal, but the anti-fascist struggle ended him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u88	I cannot even wish you a success in this, namely overthrowing the freedom system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u89	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u90	I cannot wish you succeed in overthrowing the freedom system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u91	You can't!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u92	I hope you fail, but history will judge. Now I come to the next one, which is SYRIZA's objection, and I'm trying to understand it. I do not understand exactly whether you have or have not. I'm confused. You've got a little bit, you don't have one. Mr Arachovitis said so a little more round. Mr. Papaliou is hard linker, he's following a hard line. He went to cancel the World Bank in full. Mr Arachovitis acknowledges that he is a valid international organisation, which obviously has a value to work with. I'll see the Arachobite reservation afterwards. However, the reservation of the SYRIZA rapporteur, which I consider to be all of SYRIZA, was that he is an organisation with a specific ideological - political direction, neoliberal and memorandum. You have a key issue now, less Mr Arahovitis - more evil in this - to answer why the previous conventions were concluded, so why did the SYRIZA Government have cooperation on other issues with the World Bank, if you like, if you like, if you like? So here I would like to point out a contradiction, first of all, in the main reason for SYRIZA. But let us leave the contradiction and look at the substance. Here we need to find out what is what the bank wants to do to get out of here and where its direction will hurt. Incidentally, the criticism I would make in these agencies is that they have too many socialist economists, that is, I would go in the opposite direction to what you say. In any case, however, we must accept the technocratic thing and not take it there. But let's see what this consultant has to say to us. Sometimes I feel like a more diligent reading has to be done. I will not say that reading was negligent, but less biased. What do we want with him? Comparative evaluation of agriculture. We want to help us in this, namely the relationship between agricultural policy and the strengthening of its competitiveness. Question: Is that what we are interested in or is it neoliberal? Because in international market conditions, our agricultural products must be able to trade in a competitive environment, so that our producers can have income. Question: So is that what we are interested in or not? I'd say we should be interested. Knowledge management and advisory systems. Is it a crucial issue to transform and strengthen the knowledge of new technologies in order to strengthen the productivity and competitiveness of the primary sector? Yeah. Is this without the involvement of our producers? Oh, no. How can we help them? By training - a piece - and counselling. Do we care about that? Is it neoliberal? The transfer of knowledge to our producer to enhance competitiveness and productivity is neoliberal? Yes, sir! Next: The rural - ecologicalisation. Central theme. In a time of climate change we are interested in seeing perspective and future? What happens in areas that will reduce water? What is happening in areas where extreme climatic phenomena will increase? How should production be shielded? Are we interested in thinking about it or is it neoliberal? Risk mapping and analysis are central issues of agricultural policy, agricultural policy, which are of interest to us and we want to take know-how. Is that neoliberal? Doesn't it? Shouldn't we?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u93	If you can, Minister, please be brief, because we have the budget for this House now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u94	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. With regard to the ex ante evaluation of the draft strategic draft of the common agricultural policy, the CAP, but this is a CAP. Now have you been against the CAP? Are you in SYRIZA against the Common Agricultural Policy? I say this because I am confused when you tell me that for the consultant who is going to help build our strategic plan within the framework of the common agricultural policy. The JRC has a different view. It says: 'No, I do not want a common agricultural policy, I do not want aid for farmers. I want farmers to lose 50% of their income, because, of course, when I cut the common agricultural policy, I will also cut direct payments. So I'm going to cut 50% of farmers' incomes.' That's what the JRC says. We get it. Now is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u95	You're distorting, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u96	Do not say'reverse'. My interpretation is never perverting. But it's an interpretation. So these issues, relevance, coherence, effectiveness of the strategic plan, efficiency, impact and sustainability of the strategic plan, consultations with actors and education are objectives and directions and information and advice that we do not want to take from the consultant? And I say this now: even on the issue you raised me, agricultural insurance, do we not want a better agricultural insurance system? If we do this with the involvement of the private sector - and the private sector - now who is blocking this with obsessive ideology? We did not say that we would bring in a worse system to put private people in. We say that we are detecting the possibility of the private sector contributing to creating a better and more coherent agricultural insurance system, which we all agree is having problems with the present system. Why do you say 'No, that's not what we are looking at' when we say that we are considering it? I have said, unfortunately, as the environment is now, that there is no interest in private insurance. Should we not consider whether we can create a shape in which, possibly, to achieve a better result for our producers? What, then, are the objections? I heard an objection about the price. But, first of all, I'm telling you again - you may well be analysed and broken into man-hours, scientists, all those involved, and there is such a study. And the second one - just as compared to taking it - you have accepted to pay 700,000 to draw up a section of the strategic plan and we tell you that for all this the price will reach 1 million, which has much more than the strategic plan. So what's your problem with this contract? The reality is that here we have once again a sterile refusal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u97	Finish, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think that, especially in the agricultural sector, when we identify the debate on the SWOT analysis and the strategic plan, we will be given the opportunity to look at various urban myths circulating in primary production and to gain a better understanding of the subject on the part of Members as well. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u99	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, I would like for a minute to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u101	What's this about, Mrs Manolakou? Is it a personal matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u102	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u103	I don't think so. He wasn't personally mentioned unless we go in the second case.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u104	I want a second, Mr President. I'd be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u105	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u106	The revolt of the Polytechnic from the people and youth became because they defied unjust laws, anti-linguistic laws.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u107	Ms. Manolakou, these are estimates now. It's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u108	And, indeed, the doctrine of "Law and Order" is very timely today, and that is why the government ban was being banned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u109	It's not personal, Ms. Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u110	And with regard to the Members who were in the gathering and we defended hundreds of detainees, they were released, which means that there was no illegality and our presence was conscious.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u111	This issue is an issue on which everyone has a different approach. It is mainly a constitutional, legal matter and it is not at present. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food is hereby concluded: 1. ‘Strengthening the Memorandum of Understanding in the Agriculture sector between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Kuwait’ and: 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. "Preparation of the Loss of Consultative Services Convention - Strategic Planning and Action for Agriculture and the Transformation of Countryside (SPARTA) between the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development" and their vote will be taken separately. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u112	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u113	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u114	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Following the understanding of the Agriculture Memorandum between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Kuwait’, was accepted by a majority of the uniform in principle, Articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the next vote on the 'Following the Loss of Consultative Services Convention - Strategic Planning and Action for Agriculture and the Transformation of Countryside (SPARTA)' between the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u116	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u117	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u118	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Following the Loss of Consultative Services Convention - Strategic Planning and Action for Agriculture and the Transformation of Rural Development (SPARTA) between the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development’, was accepted by a majority in principle, the articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u120	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be adjourning the sitting for three minutes and then the sitting on the budget of the House will begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Parliament's decisions - Financial management: (a) Only debate and vote of Parliament's draft budget expenditure for the financial year 2021. (b) Only discussion and approval of the Parliament's Expenditure Report, financial year 2019 and the Annex thereto (Report 2019 of the Parliamentary Foundation for Parliament and Democracy). Parliament's decisions were voted on in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy by a majority of its members. Therefore, pursuant to Rule 108(1) and (6), they may be voted on by the House without a debate. The Conference of Presidents at its meeting of 11 November 2020 decided to discuss them at a meeting as follows. Take the floor, if they so wish, the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives, who participate in a natural presence, with five minutes of speaking time, and a speaker appointed by each parliamentary group with a teleconferencing via a 'WebEx' platform, also for five minutes. These colleagues, to mention them, have already been declared as follows: Stefanos Gikas from New Democracy, Marios Katsis from SYRIZA and Vassilis Kegeroglou from the Change Movement. They'll be connected by teleconferencing. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u122	The House has agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u123	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u124	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u125	On the matter of time, five minutes, as you can see, on a subject like this, when we are here at 10 a.m. and we expect the previous procedure to end, it is very little. Please give the parties' representatives time, a representative from each party and a more comfortable time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u126	Obviously there will be a slight tolerance, but we need to identify a particular time from the outset. That's the five minutes. That is how the Conference of Presidents decided. I suggest what the Conference has decided.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u127	Put ten minutes, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u128	We are talking about it and always, as you know, the Bureau will also have sufficient tolerance. Tolerance, however, not exaggeration. So the House agrees. We're starting the process. The majority rapporteur, Mr Vassiliou, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President. Indeed, in the Committee on the Budget of the House there was an in-depth debate on the Parliament's expenditure budget for the financial year 2021 and it was introduced here in plenary in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure. The 2021 budget comes at a time difficult for all mankind. The House has shown a very good person, a human being, as I believe that politics should be expressed in society when society is tested. The great donation to the "Save" Hospital of the fifty beds, Mr. President of the Parliament, which we have the honour today to attend and speak, is a sign of this move of the Greek Parliament, participating dynamically in tackling a great problem of society and our country, as well as, of course, the response of all Members of all the party, each party in its own way, to the participation of this national effort. As far as the budget to be voted on today is concerned, it has set as its fundamental objective the most effective functioning of the House and under the Constitution, implemented in the best way possible, the legislative function and control of the executive. The main criterion for drawing up economic sizes is the strengthening of the evolutionary course of the House and, of course, the aim is also to integrate modern information systems, e-government technologies into every service, rationalization of the buildings of the Parliament, improvement of human resources and strengthening extrovertality in the interior, and, of course, to develop parliamentary diplomacy. Resources have been provided for dealing with the emergency epidemiological crisis, for health expenditure, as well as for social funds. On the other hand, we also have reductions in appropriations relating mainly to expenditure on the movement of parliamentary missions and workers. The 1921 budget amounts to EUR 142 500 000, according to the limits of the Medium-term Financial Strategy Programme and is increased, with a 2.11% deviation, compared to that of 2020, mainly due to an increase in the costs of regular auditing of the statement of assets by sworn accountants due to enlargement to ten times the number of persons, judges and prosecutors. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to information and communication technology equipment and services of the ‘Environment’ policy area in the ‘Environment’ policy area of the ‘Environment’ policy area of the ‘Environment’ policy area of the ‘Environment’ policy area of the ‘Environment’ policy area of the ‘Environment’ and ‘Environmental policy’ in the ‘Environmental policy’ of the ‘Environmental policy’ of the ‘Environment’ of the ‘Environmental policy’ of the ‘Environmental policy’ of the ‘Environment’ of the ‘Environment’ of the ‘Environment’ of the ‘Environment’ of the ‘Environment’. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, the warning comes and is intense, but the volume of today's debate is quite great. You'll give me a few more minutes to complete my location. Through the strengthening of the Parliament's budget of 2019, the Foundation of the Greek Parliament is carrying out events in 2021 in the framework of the two-year celebrations. The estimated expenditure by category is: In Category 21 for the financial year, the amount of EUR 111.030.000 is set at EUR 111.030,000. The 2020 budget appropriations were EUR 109.475, that is to say, in addition to the EUR 1,555 000 that were justified, as I said. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In the second category: Social benefits, allowances, retirement of staff with employment relationships and benefits to natural persons are in the amount of EUR 791,000. The budget appropriations for 2020 shall be the same amount. We have no increase in this part. In Category 23: Transfers concerning current domestic transfers, transfers to external entities, LAGs and other legal persons, contributions and contractual obligations to international organisations, domestic investment grants, other capital transfers amount to EUR 228 000, while the 2020 budget appropriations amount to EUR 1.819000. We also have here 370,000 euros. In Category 24 for goods and services for the financial year '21 it amounts to EUR 24 577 000. The appropriations for the 2020 budget were EUR 24.690 000, i.e. we had less than EUR 113 000. In Category 29: Appropriations from allocation, a special reserve of the Parliament for the financial year 2021, we have the amount of EUR 100,000 as well as 2020. In Category 31, fixed assets, extra infrastructure, machinery, software, intellectual property products, for '21 the budget is EUR 3,763,000 and budget appropriations for 2020 amount to EUR 2,654,000, i.e. an additional EUR 1,109 000. By 30-9-2020 we also have evidence of how much has been spent. We have an image within the budget and regarding the classification within the House, the offices of the President, the Vice-Presidents and the corresponding figures of EUR 5.058 000, the General Secretariat of the Parliament in EUR 54.182,000, and the other departments, units and offices EUR 83.260,000. A special distinguishing reference is made to the budget of the expenditure of two independent units, the Budget Office of the State in Parliament for the financial year 2021. It is EUR 497,000 and the Special Office of the Office of Statement Control for the year 2021, in particular for the costs of accounting for auditing and computerised services, is EUR 3.25,000 and EUR 1 000 for advertising and public relations expenses. The planned staff posts for the period 2019-2020 as a whole are two thousand forty-six. However, at 31-5-2020, where according to the standard budget statement, it is reported as the basis for estimated wage costs that the staffing situation was six hundred sixty-four, compared with six hundred forty-one last year, seven hundred sixty-two, seven hundred for seven hundred forty-one and thirty-four, compared with a hundred and twenty-three seconds. It is precisely the reasoning given at the beginning of my introduction. Regarding the statement of Parliament's expenditure for the financial year 2019, the initial appropriations were EUR 141,850,000 and after the reasoned decisions of the President of the Parliament were made at EUR 141,767,300. They returned to the General Accounting Office of the State of 159,700 euros and the amount of credit finally granted was EUR 141,607,700. The amount of EUR 4.215 was also reimbursed. As a separate annex, the budget of the Hellenic Parliament is also to be adopted, as the reorganisation of the 2020 budget and the 2019 budget total revenue from 1-1-2019 to 31-12-2019 was EUR 1,173,397,29. Total expenditure for 2019 was EUR 1.654.329,57. This amount corresponds to 59,40% of the amount of 2,785 000 that had been budgeted and approved by the Foundation's Board of Directors in February 2019. A total of EUR 6 million was deposited on the Parliamentary Foundation's view account on 24-12-2019 for the Foundation's next-use revenues and the total reserve available on 31-12-2019 is EUR 21,906,783. The reform of the budget results from the President's decision to grant the Foundation 2m euros for actions relating to the celebration of the National Palaggenesia. The total available for the period 30-9-2020 was EUR 20,782.676 and the total budget revenue for 2021 to EUR 3,300,000.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u130	Make sure to be shortened, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u131	All right, I'll finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u132	The provision of 108 is correct. There was a detailed discussion with very detailed figures in committee. That's why we've been set up for five minutes. The Conference of Presidents did not arbitrarily do so. It is foreseen in 108, which means that, in any case, we are not so detailed, because the analysis has been carried out in committee. Let's go for three times a year. Make sure you complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u133	Then I will refer to a note because, as we said, we are also adopting the statements on the Foundation of the Greek Parliament, I would like to say that the Court of Auditors, by carrying out preventive and repressive control, has found that all payments have been made well. We have asked for some clarification on the issues raised by the Commissioner regarding the improvement of procedures at the Foundation and we have received the following answers on three points: Firstly, with regard to software programmes: already the Foundation since December 2019 has provided a comprehensive programme, the ERP SoftOne Cloud, which is fully operational since 1 January 2020 and has thus satisfied, Mr Alexiadis, the first recommendation of the Commissioner. As far as the Foundation is concerned, some thirty-five people work. The Foundation operates a bilingual system, according to the Greek accounting standards of L.438/2014, reflecting every day all transactions and keeping the necessary books. And the expenditure, as we have said, is controlled by the Court of Auditors. Therefore, the recommendation for an internal audit service to a relatively small body is considered to have no added value, only a budgetary burden and extra payroll costs. Finally, the financial statements of the Foundation from the establishment until 2018 were audited by a chartered auditor-accountant, as it was in the observation that there was an auditor-accountant according to his former organisation. During the period of the Foundation's draft new regulation, there was cooperation with the Court of Auditors, which proposed the abolition of the auditors' oaths and the introduction of preventive repressive control by the Court of Auditors, which is there. I will conclude by saying that we will be voting in favour of the budget and the report of the House, as well as the related ones. I would like to thank the Services, the Parliamentary Budget Office and the Parliament's directorates who worked together to have this transparent and very comprehensive work and work in our hands, so that we can come today and vote for Parliament's plenary. And, of course, the people who support the Foundation of Parliament and parliamentaryism and democracy. It is a very important task, I would say, to try to defeat positive thinking about democracy and to enable our people to enjoy the real freedoms they deserve, without suffering the unpleasant, if you like, disturbances by people who overestimate the goods that they can offer - and it offers - our democracy, which, forty-four years ago, I think, has been giving excellent fruit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u134	The rapporteur for SYRIZA has the floors - a Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u135	Mr President, I hope I do not need the time of the previous representative of the New Democracy. I'll try to be more telegraphed because I understand the issues of time. But I've been here since 10:00 in the morning thinking that the previous conversation would end earlier. This is how Parliament's procedures are, it has gone a little further. I would just like to make one mention, because in the previous debate on the memorandum of understanding in the field of agriculture between Greece and Kuwait, there was a great debate on the implementation of the law. Some have shaken our fingers by saying "you do not observe the law," they spoke about constitutionality, etc. Well, let's get things straightened out here. I didn't want to start my speech like that, but some are causing. I am one of them - with many other citizens, with students and trade unionists - who we fought for a law never to be implemented - were my introductory tests in the trade union movement - Mr. 815/1978. And I'm proud, because I did everything possible, along with many others, with the student movement of the period, despite the hesitation and absences of some people, and we managed this law not to apply. This was a law passed by the New Democracy and was unable to implement it. I'm proud of the games I gave for it. And if necessary, I'll do the same for other laws that we think are contrary to popular interests. I don't know, because some people are swinging our finger on laws and order, if the New Democracy headquarters are proud to be its MP, who, on 12-5-1985, on the Academy Street, under the offices of ENPEN, applied the law with axes or another MP who in 2003, with a fire extinguisher attack at the dean of the University of Piraeus, Vasili Bellos, sent him to the hospital. Not to be taught by some. I close the whole matter and go on to the subject of my speech on the matter of the budget - an account of the House and the Foundation of Parliament. I will not say much because I think that everything has been said in committee. I should like to begin by saying to the House what I said in committee, first of all, that there is no question of mismanagement, transparency or anything else. We put it at the outset, and we have said that we are voting on the budget. All our criticism, both within the committee and here, is to defend democracy and not leave any room for 'global' or other reasonable questioning of the role of democracy and how much this House should contribute to this process, we do not have such an approach, and any criticism of ours has the logic of highlighting problems and better functioning of all of us. In that sense I also told the committee, and I say this here that it does not help to get on Friday at 13 a.m., two hundred and fifty pages of numbers, two issues in paper form and to have a debate on Monday at noon - Friday we got them, Monday was the committee - and to have the plenary on Thursday. This publicity process is not helping. We would prefer to have in digital form, in a simple "selves", accounts, so that we too can make our calculations and proposals and have a digital reform that is necessary and that would help to improve the functioning and transparency issues. Furthermore, we cannot understand why in committee, I see that it was corrected in plenary, there was no possibility for Members to participate via the Internet, that is, Members who could not be in the Chamber, because they did not cover the sitting either, while Parliament's TV had nothing else, nor the WebEx of the House, because the sitting was not on the site. I'm saying that and I'm asking to say it for the last time. Live to have, also to be time here to discuss them, but to discuss more important issues of time and not that. Because I think that it is precisely to defend the role of Parliament and its contribution to democracy that there should be no such issues that make arguments in other respects. We are actually discussing a budget of about 143 million. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I am asking for nothing but the time before.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u136	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u137	So as far as the budget is concerned - a budget of 143 million - I want to say the following. And I will start with what I said in committee. The difficulty of approaching this issue because, look, we are actually discussing an economic account, but I do not understand what the administrative accounts are being discussed, namely, for the functioning of Parliament, which institution, which committee decides all that is then financially captured and they come for approval here. I say this once again for the last time that we do not raise any question of management or anything else. It is simply difficult for us to adopt financial administrative acts which have not been discussed in another institution and which should have been done before they come here, because there are issues relating to the functioning of the House. I have been a Member since July 2019. I have not been given the opportunity to discuss the basic issues of Parliament, not to deal with Alexiadis personally, but with the better functioning of Members of Parliament and many other Members of Parliament, first of all to resolve the issue of building. As far as the building issue is concerned, before I say about the Members, I will say about the officials of this House. In many offices in the House, officials are literally on each other. Something needs to be done also because of a coronary, but also because of better performance, and with what the Health and Safety Regulations lay down for workers on labour measures, so that there is better building infrastructure for employees as well. I'm coming to the MPs. There can be no such development of the buildings of the House. In the House building, we don't even have one block to put our papers on, there's no office to sit. And we see the House building hosting a series of former Prime Ministers, Vice Presidents, Presidents, etc. We cannot serve these needs. Of course, they must be served with certain criteria in other buildings, but the building of the House must first be used for the building infrastructure for officials and MPs. I've put this before, and I'll put it back, because, after all the latest developments, we can't even sit down and touch our papers and our computer to do some work. Another issue which I have raised in committee and which I am putting here is that it must be solved by the year - and not again next year to discuss it - the question of the occupational insecurity that exists in Parliament's workers. The issue of the various conventions must be resolved. The House cannot have many speed workers and any reasonable work insecurity is in place. Let's close these issues. In reply to the committee, all this in relation to publicity, transmission and so on, is being done for delivery purposes. I respect the argument, but if we were to keep the tradition in this country, it would be a palace, it would not be a parliament! So on some issues, tradition is respected, but to break it and overthrow some situations and move one step further. Just a few remarks. One of these is that I saw that the House at a cost covers control of 'whereabouts' for six thousand people. I don't understand the logic. The work of the House isn't that. There is a special independent authority dealing with these issues. It could therefore be strengthened to staff, to budget, to software and to take control of this and not to the House. In my opinion, it is a problem for a body to control its own house. So here we must not let any gray point or question mark be checked by another principle, Alexiadis's "substantially" first of all, and then anything else. Apart from this, however, that we cannot choose the auditor who will come to check what we in the 'whereabouts' are saying, the House cannot, apart from the house, where it has to pay the same costs, pay for six thousand people. To pay for the MPs, for the former ministers, Prime Ministers, etc., who are no longer MPs I understand. But for six thousand faces? So I propose that the next time should be settled and taken over by another body. There is a special independent authority on this issue, with know-how, with prosecutor's supervision, which can take care of it and not deal with this matter in Parliament. In conclusion, I would like to make a few other points as to what you have given us as a report on the Statute of the Court of Auditors. With full respect for the Court of Auditors and because of my pre-service as a trade unionist and as Deputy Minister and stressing the important work he is doing, I would like to stress that his comments should be answered. I heard the spokesman of the New Democracy, and I respect his argument. But whether, for example, there is a question, whether with the information systems or with the audit of the annual financial statements, whether there is another view from the Foundation or from anyone else, at the next meeting we will hold after a year or even before - I would suggest that this debate should be held at six months' notice, that is, twice a year - I would suggest that these matters should be settled. The argument as to whether or not there should be an audit function has anything to do with the size of the organisation, as to whether we are putting such procedures in place. Of course we should resolve the question of whether it makes sense in an institution with such a small budget that we also have a Court of Auditors and a sworn auditor and an internal audit service, when in other bodies we do not have, if not all, even one of the two. I would therefore ask that these issues be resolved and that we move forward. Finally, until the end of the debate - to be as much as I can in time and to speak less than the previous speaker - we received the report from the Board of Directors from the Foundation of the Greek Parliament dated 4 November. I do not understand, Mr President, and honourable Members - and I should like to know until the end - who have voted against the report, who have declared that they are present and who have not been absent. Because a lot of people move our fingers on system issues and that they are the rebels and that we are "compatible" and so on, let us know who they are who, because of their previous position, enjoy various facilities, but then come after and vote against or are absent or declared "residents". Please let us know. Thank you very much for your time. As you can see, Mr President, I spoke less than the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr Alexiadis. I invite the special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr. Christo Goka. Until it comes to Stepma to take advantage of time and say that at some point, Mr Alexiadis, we can easily discuss. Because I also have the chairmanship of the Committee on Budgetary Control, there are many who control the state. The law stipulates that the control of those controlled by our committee also includes the judges. There are, as you know, other checks carried out by other independent authorities. I must stress here that our control is the most systematic one. From that point on, the responsibility for administering this control lies with the Greek Parliament. I don't want to spend time answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u139	Laws change, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u140	I mean, not in the sense of answer somehow, not good. Here, Mr Goka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Parliament's budget gives us the opportunity, in addition to its figures and the type of expenditure and actions to which they correspond, to address the issues of democracy and the institutions that support it, but also the issues of transparency and the functioning of the political system. The Greek Parliament is a leading institution of the Hellenic Republic. And the Greek Parliament's budget is about the minimum cost for the functioning of our democracy, in a country that has been tested with a long-standing economic crisis since 2009 and with it a society that has even exceeded the limits of its strength, while, for about ten months, we have had another hard test with the COVID pandemic -19 and the dangers that threaten the health of citizens and are already losing lives, unfortunately, every day. This unprecedented health crisis changes data and priorities, since its response is a first priority, as is the treatment of economic deadlocks that it creates in the real economy and workers. In this context, the House has its own contribution. On the occasion of today's debate, I would like to refer to our proposal - the Change Movement - for the sum of 50 beds to be spent at the Salvation Hospital, a proposal that was accepted by the President of Parliament, who raised the matter unanimously and the House decided to grant EUR 8 000 000 and thus enabled these fifty beds to be created. Of course, the Ministry of Health, the Government, must have these units staffed and ready to operate. This act affirms the institution of the Parliament, which, in the context of its potential, must have parallel actions and initiatives with a social character, as well as support for other actions, cultural, historical, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, prudent management strengthens the prestige and credibility of the institutions of democracy, a democracy which we must also protect against unnecessary conflicts, from divisions and polarisation, and indeed with the responsibility of political forces on either side of the government, either on the side of the opposition or on both sides, as happened in the previous Polytechnic anniversary. We should also get away from the logic and attitudes that we have known not in the very distant past, which have insulted and struck with insulting persons and threats, but above all the state institution of the House itself. Modern Greek democracy has a life of forty-four years and we must not forget that it has always had and will have friends and enemies. So let us not give any opportunity to the enemies, and let us support the authority and credibility of this institution. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Parliament's budget must, in principle, ensure independent political operation, without both Parliament's and Members' work, as well as equality in the possibility of involving and representing the citizens, without this being the privilege of the few and without any general dependencies, with everything being able to do without waste and excesses, a process in which we - even as a matter of urgency - have been in place since 2009. The financial management of the House must be simple and transparent, but not at the expense of efficiency. In previous years, large cuts have been made which have led to the limits of effective operation. We then had, during the crisis period, political responsibility, but also the courage to make these drastic cuts in Parliament's finances. From EUR 222,000,000 in 2009 and starting in 2010, the Parliament's budget was gradually reduced to EUR 141,9 million in 2014, totalling EUR 36,12% and EUR 134,000 in 2018, totalling 39,6%. Let us note that this reduction was based on a large part and on the reductions in Members' salaries, which were reduced by approximately 45%. After the relative and reasoned increase of EUR 7.5 million or 5.4%, the 2019 budget was EUR 141.8 million, the 2020 budget was slightly reduced - to EUR 139.5 million, while this year's budget has a small increase of 2.9 million or 2.1%. In particular, the budget of 2021 is set at EUR 142 500 000. The increase is mainly due to the EUR 1.5 million increase in expenditure for the control of declarations ‘from the outset’, which concerns all those responsible, not just the Members, and the necessary provision of electronic equipment. We are positive about expanding control. It strengthens the credibility of the institutions in the eyes of the citizens, and that is why the House has many differences and control levels. I would also like to point out that Parliament's operating costs are one of the lowest in the world - where democracy works - and marginally covers the necessary functions following the major cuts that have taken place since 2010. In response to all kinds of populists, on the basis of the figures in the preliminary draft budget of 2021, the Parliament's budget is a minimum of 0.23% of the total government expenditure of EUR 63.8 billion. We also note that on the basis of the 2019 balance sheet, as formulated by internal accounting arrangements, they were returned to the State General Accounting Office of EUR 165 000. Also, with regard to expenditure, I would like to focus on the use of non-polluting electric cars by Parliament, which was anticipated and implemented with last year's budget, certainly a positive fact, in the context of contributing and dealing with the serious issue of climate change, but also with the costs already done and others that need to be done for the energy upgrade of the mechanical installations and the building of the House. It also has its own value the grant that continues to celebrate the two hundred years since 1821 to the Foundation of the Parliament of 6 million, which was decided last year. Ladies and gentlemen, before I close again, I should like to express our trust and also personally thank the officials and the services for drafting and implementing the budget, but also the staff of the House who, in difficult and unprecedented crises and the economic and health services that have arisen, support Parliament's work. With respect for our part and responsibility for the institution that we represent, we are also voting in favour of the 2019 Report on Parliament and the Foundation of Parliament and the budget of 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr. Goka. The President of Parliament has the floor, because he has the Conference of Presidents shortly. I just want to say, Mr President, that as far as Mr Alexiadis is concerned, I have spoken with the relevant department. Law 4571/2018 included judges and prosecutors other than that in the control carried out by the House and is the only control body with universal control, while the other authorities - I will not mention them - are sampled. Here it becomes very essential and this responsibility was given by the law of 2018, FEK 186a. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u143	Thank you. [[Applause]] I apologized to Mr. Karathanasopoulos for taking his turn. I had to speak at the end, but we have a Conference of Presidents shortly after we postponed it until 14.00. I wanted to tell you that we are voting today on the 2021 budget together with the 2019 report and the annex to the Parliamentary Foundation's accounts in paradoxical, unprecedented conditions for the country and obviously also for the Greek Parliament. A number highlights these unprecedented, bizarre circumstances, that in the immediate past two, three, four, five years ago, the House, ladies and gentlemen, was accepted in all places, not only in the central building - but mainly in the central building - a hundred thousand visits every year. Half the visits were from schools and all the others from citizens, institutions, actors, who came to the House and to our offices and topics that concern them and to tour this historic monument. So we're talking for a hundred thousand a year. I would also like to say that this time will obviously come again and I feel the need to thank the staff and colleagues for their respect as far as possible for all the health security measures we take, which has resulted in the great doctor and dear to all of us, the infamous Giannis Metropoulou, who proves that the health sector has paid a heavy price to try to curb this 'daughter' which is siegeing our lives and which we hope soon with the scientific discoveries to rescind. The Greek Parliament's budget is 142 million, according to the medium-term Financial Adjustment Programme - 142.50,000, in fact - and we continue our long-term compliance with the country's financial data after 2010. Here I have to say that the budgets of this House since then, following the major economic crisis which hit our people and our country, have drastically adjusted its expenditure. These costs have been reduced in relation to the joyful period, as one would say with more literary invention. We have limited them by about 80 million a year. The last budgets of the House, before the crisis which hit the country, were 220 million. Now it's 139-142 million. This shows the important measure through which Parliament has also contributed to the necessary fiscal consolidation of the country. Before I go to speak in a few words about the 2021 budget, I say that the current budget is evolving and running without any real problem. Adequate appropriations are available for all expenditure planned. We have spent EUR 93274,991 on budgetary expenditure of EUR 139,550,000 this year from now on. I would also like to say that all the efforts we have made in the next budget are primarily to facilitate the parliamentary work that serves in this area, legislative work and parliamentary control, Parliament's international obligations, Parliament's internal obligations, the cultural, social and other activities it has, which were our unanimous sponsorship with the fifty overpriced positions of intensive care units at the Salvation Hospital, but also other such voluntary donations. I'm opening parentheses. At the moment, at the "Save", at the multi-powered unit that the Greek Parliament has given, thirty-one patients are hospitalized. We've lost, people have been lost, but we've got three testimonies. It's a constant battle. I also wanted to say that for the first year under the Rules of Procedure of the House of Parliament of February 2019, we have the report of the repressive control of expenditure and obligations of the Foundation of the Greek Parliament of 2019. Despite the useful remarks that have been made, the pointers are much more useful and optimistic - and they deserve congratulations from the staff of the Foundation for them - which are made by the Commissioner of the Court of Auditors. I read them on the road: "For 19, then, the Foundation of Parliament has legally and regularly been able to pay expenditure. The procedure for drawing up and implementing the budget is in line with the existing legislative framework, the company observes the bilingual system in the registration of transactions and has sound financial management.’ Obviously, there are also the remarks which have nothing to do with failure issues. It's about improvement. An improvement, 'consolidating information systems', has already been observed. Inspection by independent vows and not by the Court of Auditors is an option that can be discussed, but both controls have their merit. The Internal Audit Service is also something that one can discuss, but that does not remove the previous observations which - I dare say - flattering the level of transparency that exists in the Foundation of the Greek Parliament. I would also like to say that they were analysed by the colleagues who spoke - and by Mr Ypsilante in more detail - the expenditure per major category, which amounts to EUR 142 500 000. We have seven categories of expenditure, basically, in the House. We have employee benefits, social benefits, transfers of different kinds, purchases of goods and services, allocation credits, fixed assets and price. I would also like to say, in order to understand how the House is moving and how its finances are, that 77.5% of Parliament's expenditure relates to ruthless expenditure - the salaries of staff, MPs, insurance contributions - and the remaining 22.5% concerns activities and other obligations - projects, interventions, transfers, international obligations - and all this support for the public benefit and the cultural culture we give. I believe that the implementation of the budget is going to be good. We will be able to continue our work under the conditions that are being done. You have seen that even in plenary now colleagues can technologically participate. We understand that this is a parentheses. We're all struggling to be a parentheses of time. I believe that we will reopen the House to the world, to the youth, so that both the Greek people and the Greek youth can live in here, in the temple of democracy, all that spirit of our mission that is served through budgets. I listened carefully to the comments by both Mr Alexiadis and other colleagues in the committee on Monday. It is worth talking about all this, in the light of the next budget preparation, with the good news of the year 2000. Now allow me, after I also ask you to vote in favour of the budget, to remind and pay attention to the last paragraphs in the report, where we have put out of regular budget expenditure relating to Parliament, on Parliament's projects, on Parliament's initiatives, on the benefits of the House, but also on the benefits of Members and parties that are not from Parliament's money, but are from their own economic potential. I have to say that the year in which we are going through benefits from MPs and parties has given sums of more than EUR 1,100,000 to help the National Health System and I do not put in the ICUs. It's something else, because ICUs are from Parliament's budget, it's from Parliament's money. We are talking here about the personal money of the parties and Members of Parliament. There were too many hospitals supported. Money was given by parties and MPs for the needs of the health system, for many hospitals, from Kastoria to Crete. I don't exclude anyone here, absolutely no one. And this amount - I repeat - goes beyond EUR 1,100,000. And I'm not saying it for impression. I say this as a fundamental obligation for so-called civil servants and parties against the health crisis, which is afflicting the country. So I think that we will soon be able to enjoy our old resonance and our old opportunity to accommodate the Greek people and especially the Greek youth in order that the budget for 2021 should not be implemented and that it should not only be presented online, which is a necessary adaptation, but that it should be done through living reality. Because our political capacity always pursues us, I would like to thank Mr Alexiadis for informing me, because Mr No.815/78 has not been implemented. I then, as always demoded, was in favour of Law 815, but to this day I did not know who prevented him. I learned today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u144	Thank you to the President of the Greek Parliament. Karathanasopoulos has the floor as a special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece and as a parliamentary representative. He'll speak with two qualities. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. The Parliament's budget for 2021 was drawn up, as other speakers have said, on the basis of the medium-term Financial Stability Programme, a programme which imposes budgetary discipline on the needs of the people and at the same time shields the profits of business groups. In other words, it is an anti-grassian medium-term programme. This is also apparent from the draft Parliament's budget for the year 2021, where, in essence, we see the impact of measures taken during the crisis against workers, where we find a further cut in their salaries by EUR 500,000, resulting in a reduction in personal differences. And at the same time, as the figures show, the intensification of workers in the Parliament and in the area of the House must be recorded in terms of an amount of EUR 6 million which relates to overtime in the House, which is up to 30% of the total budget for the permanent and unlimited staff of the House. We say this clearly as a JRC, that the major wage losses and the workers in the House must be made with an increase in their wages and not at the expense of their working hours, at the expense of their lifestyle through an increase in overtime. The second question, which arises, apart from intensification, is precisely the need to meet new permanent workers in the House in order to be able to carry out its work and not to meet certain needs with fixed-term contracts. Another issue, which we would like to raise, is that, in our view, the role of the House must be even more active in supporting activities of cultural and scientific mass media. Thirdly, a large proportion of the three million increase recorded in the Parliament's budget for 2021, compared with 2020, that is, one and a half million of the three million, 50% - it relates to expenditure - other speakers have said - which are related to the control of the situation, because the list of those responsible'subjects' to be checked by the House has been extended. In other words, some EUR 3.1 million is available for expenditure which, in our view, does not relate to the operation and action of the House. And, of course, the fourth point, which we would like to highlight, is the long-term position of the JRC, a position which has been expressed long before the 2009 crisis and the memoranda of the drastic reduction in total Members' salaries. It is a position which the JRC Members are doing in practice, since all the remuneration resulting from parliamentary compensation is granted to the parties' funds. For precisely the perception that we have, namely the perception of how the new authority the JRC empowers should be organised, is that this new authority must be a matter of the whole working class by involving the other social forces as well. This way of organisation expresses a new higher form of democracy, which has as a key feature the active involvement of the working class and the people in general in shaping socialist society, in resolving all the old contradictions, but also social inequalities, in controlling the management of productive units, social and administrative services, but above all in controlling all the bodies of power from the bottom up. So the electoral right to socialist power means that the worker is elected and elected in all the institutions. He's controlling, but he's rescinding. In other words, there is the revocation of the representatives from the workers. From this point of view, and the regulation of the working time of the members elected to the various bodies of socialist society takes place in their workplace for the specific period in which they are elected, depending on the size of the obligations and, of course, without any economic privilege. Finally, Mr President, as I have discussed with the President of Parliament, I would like to refer to an incident, the well-known incident of confrontation with the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution two days ago, stressing that it is clear that any objective circumstances can justify any charge, but there can be no cause for a verbal misconduct, which was of course the words and the views expressed and not the person of the speaker. And I conclude, Mr President, by voting on Parliament's expenditure budget for 2021 and on Parliament's expenditure statement for 2019, which will be 'at present' on the basis of the political view that we have expressed today and that we have formulated when Parliament's expenditure budget for 2019 was being discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u146	And we thank Mr. Karathanasopoulos. The reason for this is - after the Stepma has been settled - Mr. Vassiliardos Viliardos, special speaker of the Greek Solution. If I understood correctly, Mr Karathanasopoulos, you also said about the cost of checking 'from the outset'. Or didn't you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u147	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u148	I have to tell you what we've achieved. While the first agreement - and I will say, from my own presidency - was a price that would control 40% of the retrospective declarations - which is not correct, we said that the whole is controlled by this committee alone and no other authority that controls the whole - we have managed - and I will say that to be heard - the fee is 40% and the 100% control. I don't want to tell you anything else, because it was originally 9.5 million. I told you the law was Law 4571/18. It was enforced, as I remember, then that law included all the judges in this committee and all the judges. Imagine that we control six thousand four hundred per year. We have a three-year retrospective control, that is, a total of twenty-one thousand five hundred audit reports and a very detailed check is carried out. I said this yesterday and many of you have also, in the good sense of the term, done some retrospectively. And above all these remarks are made by these young people who are controlled, because we are controlling MPs, MPs, ministers, Prime Minister and Heads of Party obviously, as they are also MPs, all judges and prosecutors, the economic operators of the parties, regional directors and mayors. There are other principles, such as the Transparency Authority that controls others, such as the Third Suppression and Laundering Unit. These checks are carried out by other authorities. However, this check is carried out by us and I must tell you that it is essential and is done by the vows, with whom we have achieved a very significant discount, and that is good for the House, which has taken the cost.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u149	We have another point of view. Let's not insist.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u150	Mr President, I would just like to say a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u151	Mr. Alexiadis, let's not open it. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor, although we have taken advantage of Mr. Villard's kindness.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u152	We do not question the work that the Commission is doing on the control of 'from now on'. We have not expressed such a question, whether it is complete or not. We also do not question the efforts made to reduce the cost of this work. We say that this work, which has been poorly integrated by the law, is, in our opinion, irrelevant to the functioning of the House. That is what we stressed, Mr President. We didn't say anything different and we didn't have anything to do with this function.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u153	It is only good, however, when some things are heard, to clarify others. I, too, had to say this because I personally did over-react, because I found a solution which would control 40% with this amount and with efforts and contacts with the companies - because, as you know, the oaths belong to various companies - we managed to make the best possible approach and the best possible control. Everyone is chosen and doing their job in the best way, and even the general directive is mine to have very good cooperation with all those who control it so that we can have the best transparent result. Mr. Villardo, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u154	No problem, Mr President. If I understand correctly, you can talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Villardo, you have the floor now in comfort, not because you deserve it, but for one more reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u156	I don't need much time, Mr. President. Mr Colleague, I would like to tell you that what you said was not an apology. The expressions were totally inappropriate - I never expected them - and it was not just for the colleague, it was for us all. If I look far-right, what can I tell you. Your behavior is far more extreme than mine. In any case, I hope it will not be repeated, because in general we have good relations between us, and it will be good to stay that way. I will begin by expressing our condolences to the family of the doctor of the Parliament, Giannis Metropulou, who left because of the pandemic that has been afflicting us all - both our state and our economy. As far as Parliament's budget and balance sheet are concerned, the objection we had both in the 2020 budget and in the 2021 budget, as well as in the 2019 budget, was that all of us were delivered together on the same day of the debate with two forms, assuming there was no reason to do so, and it would be preferable to send us electronically. That's what my colleague said. I hope the President has taken this into account and agreed to that, so that next time we will be given it to us in this way. As far as the Court of Auditors' recommendations are concerned, we consider that correct answers were given, that the President of Parliament is adequate, while our comments were as follows: first, as regards increasing staff to two thousand sixteen in 2021 from a thousand five hundred sixty in 2020 and a thousand five hundred in 2019, the President replied to us saying that these are organic posts that will not be paid, but will remain vacant if we are not mistaken. If something now doesn't understand correctly, it's a warm request to correct us or tell us next time. And, secondly, we considered the amount of EUR 2 million over each year to be excessive to celebrate the two-year revolution since 2021. In this regard, the President has assured us that there will be much less available, so of course we believe him. However, we are very sad that Greece will celebrate its two hundred years from the release more slaved than ever, noting that economic slavery, our occupation better than lenders, led by Germany, is much worse than the military. When a country is under military occupation, it can react and regain its national sovereignty. But when he sells what he has and has not, he unfortunately can never do that. In addition to the amount mentioned above, the additional cost for 2020 is information and telecommunications equipment, software and various other things that we consider right, and there have been indeed several savings in relation to the past. In relation to the high cost increase for the "substantially obsolete" mentioned by the President earlier, we were informed that it was due to the stoppage of the large discount provided by the sworn accountants. A solution should be found here, since the amount is really too large and should not remain as it is. If we understood right now, the cost of this House has been greatly reduced, from EUR 220 million before the crisis to EUR 140 million today, that is, by EUR 80 million annually. It would have been right, however, to have happened before 2009, where Greece was overcharged by its governments, while it went bankrupt in 2012 with the signature of the PSI. The EUR 80 million reduction certainly implies a huge waste of the many that have been in the past and contributed to the overcompensation of our country. Greece, however, is the only country in the world history - the only one, there has never been anyone else - who has endured everything to its lenders, while transferring its assets to their excesses, without even having appreciated their value before. It is at least one irresponsible - if not a criminal act - to hope that the responsible will be punished at some point. All those who committed this crime must at some point be punished. And it seems clear from the state's comic-tracted balance sheets - indeed comic-tractors, one cannot describe them differently - as well as those of the EBRD and the GOI. We are the only ones who studied them thoroughly, obviously no one else has read them, otherwise they would never have been voted on. At some point, if the Greeks understand what happened in 2012, they will surely flood the streets. The same would happen if they were aware of the mismanagement today on the basis, among other things, of the preparation of the state balance sheet, which we never expected would happen, of course, that we would ever see from a parliament in any country, even in the third world. In conclusion, we voted in favour of the report and of the budgets, despite our above reservations, and we thank Parliament's staff very much for the support of our parliamentary work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, too, Mr. Villardo. We are completing the cycle of rapporteurs and special speakers with my colleague from Mera25 Mr. Maria Apatzides. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we warmly congratulate the family of the doctor of the House of John Metropoulou. Today we are called upon to work out and adopt the draft budget of Parliament for the financial year 2021, as well as to approve Parliament's statement of expenditure for the financial year 2019 and this annex on the activities of the Parliamentary Foundation for Parliament and the Republic. Of course, this is where a certain irony is hidden, because we are called upon to place ourselves on something that we have only a virtual reason. The self-government parliamentary majority, that is today the New Democracy Party, decides by its votes on Parliament's spending budget, draws up, approves it, votes on it by majority power and then implements it. We are therefore called upon to address an issue on which we do not really have any reason. In this treaty, our party, as a opposition party, has to be placed politically rather than technically. As we have noted a year ago, Parliament's expenditure is not a technical issue, it is a political matter. We can, of course, imagine the objection to the fact that we are being placed here in a pretext where there is only one political one and not a technical one. But there is an answer to such an objection. It could be proposed that an increased majority should be proposed in order to draw up and approve Parliament's budget, as in the statement of expenditure from the previous statement, an increased majority of eighty-six Members in Parliament. Instead of deciding on their own for the budget for expenditure, we are proposing a change in the conditions of the institutional framework, so that the requirement of an increased majority in the budget for Parliament's expenditure and its corresponding balance sheet requires a greater composition and co-determination among the groups, with a final result of a budget and a balance sheet which better reflects the mixture of the political formations that society has sent to Parliament, thereby sending out a message of composition. In this way, accountability would have real content. This would be a 'embulous' democracy, a real alternative to the so-called legislative predatory nature of this procedure, in terms of the participation of the Anti-Population at least. From there on, Parliament's financial burden on the state budget is substantially less than 0.1% of GDP, and since we are talking about the Greek Parliament, when it does not stand for itself by continuing legislative acts, delayed amendments and fullheartedness of the few ten Members, could actually work as the top institution of collective political representation of the Greek people. We are the last to build the whole amount in populist terms as a large amount. On the contrary, the fact that the reduction in expenditure in relation to the 2009 budget, that is, in the years of the crisis, amounts to about 40% is indicative. Last year the President of Parliament, Mrs Tasoula, noted that this has not undermined either the prestige or the effectiveness or the great'vetalia' of Parliament's actions. However, such a crisis would be preferable to leave the citizens. As regards the Annex to the 2019 Report on the Foundation of the Greek Parliament for Parliament and Democracy, we have to note that a Parliamentary institution for the purpose of studying and disseminating the principles of parliamentism and democracy would be an extremely good and timely idea. We are very afraid that we do not see this in front of us, we see an annexation of the Foundation of the Hellenic Parliament to the strictly party Institute of the Republic of Konstantinos Karamanlis, while at the same time shifting from the chairman of his scientific board to the seat of the General Secretary of the Parliament and with a programme for the review of the Modern History of Greece and especially the Civil War, if we judge from the background of the design of the New Democracy for the position of the Secretary-General. In other words, the government majority expressly expresses its intention to transform the Foundation of the Hellenic Parliament for Parliament and the Republic into an institution that divides, so that its ideological obsessions can be consolidated. In such a political context, one of our technical comments on the 2019 report on the Foundation is superfluous. In practical terms, we should only take note of the following issue on the budget of the House for the financial year 2021. In previous years the issue of Parliament's environmental footprint with an energy upgrade programme was raised, so that energy consumption was substantially reduced. We saw the electric cars, and they have previously been heard and placed for a green roof of the House and photovoltaics to provide energy to it. Given the symbolic weight of the way the Greek Parliament operates, we believe that this is a direction that needs to be strengthened with bravery and great initiatives, without semimetres. I would like to close by reminding Members of a point from placing Mera25 on the same subject last year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u159	Do not take into account the bell. Close with your comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. In Parliament's budget, Members are counted as Parliament's workers, in the sense, of course, as servants of the people. But here is a contradiction, which is also reproduced in the balance sheet: The category of expenditure in which the parliamentary compensation is included is called "services" in the sense of providing services to Parliament, while the subcategory for the remuneration of Members' services remains "remuneration", bearing the meaning of "cost of opportunity", a sacrifice made by the Member to become such, so it has an opportunity cost that society must compensate him. In the end, then, is the Member of Parliament an employee of society providing services or someone doing thanks to society and should he be compensated? Words are important and clarity, especially in Parliament, must always be deaf and everywhere. We in Mera25 ideologically function as the voice of the citizens who trusted us in the elections and all those who have dented our ranks ever since. And that means listening to the citizens, to the people, and not to those who need compensation to tell them what is right from a high point of view. It would be a good job if Parliament's budget vocabulary reflected a similar logic. As MERA25, we are voting 'at present'. And we thank all the employees and the services for their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, too. Of the members who will be connected to a teleconferencing conference, I will give Mr Ghika the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u162	Mr Katssis has also asked for the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u163	Immediately afterwards it is - I already see him - Mr Katsis and then Mr Kegeroglu. And then Mr Loverdos and Mr Lebanese have asked for the floor. So now Mr Gikas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft budget and the auditing of the accounts of a financial year of the Greek Parliament, which is held every year, is not a formal procedure. On the contrary, it is an obligation to contribute to transparency and to inform the citizens of Parliament's activities and the costs they entail. The health crisis affecting our country and humanity could not leave the Greek Parliament unaffected. As an institution of the culture, but also as part of the Greek society, Parliament has been influenced both in the way of operation and in the implementation of the 2020 budget and will inevitably be affected next year in 2021. During the first wave of pandemic last spring, the House did not close. However, by applying the restrictive measures, the number of meetings has been reduced for a time, but very quickly we have adapted to the requirements of the exceptional circumstances we are experiencing. Thus, with the aim of continuous upgrading of its parliamentary work, implementing best practices, the House now incorporates modern information systems into its work, as well as electronic governance technologies...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u165	You don't have a good signal, Mr. Gika.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u166	...COVID -19...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u167	You don't have a good signal, Mr. Gika.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u168	Can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u169	Now we've heard you, but while you're talking, there's a vacation. You don't have a good signal. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u170	What can I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u171	Go on closer to the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u172	The coronary epidemic has reduced, as expected, movements both internally and abroad, while the number of events are also being organised. This has led to the reduction of some costs, which are expected to be at least reduced and in the first half of 2020-2021. As every year, in 2020, the House carried out a series of important initiatives to strengthen its social work, raise awareness of issues related to environmental protection, promote cultural wealth and develop multifaceted international and diplomatic relations. It is worth mentioning, the donation of 8m euros for the construction of a new ITH at the "Save" Hospital of a capacity of 50 beds, the ongoing project of energy upgrading of the House, which will achieve a 30% reduction in energy consumption and a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions by about 40%, the inclusion of electric vehicles in the new rental of parliamentary vehicles and the renewal of the fleet of service vehicles with electric cars. At the same time and in view of the celebration of the two hundred years since the Greek Revolution of 1821, a very important task of restoring and highlighting the Megaron of the Parliament, which is a monument of the Ministry of Culture and is of course unique beauty. The same framework includes the restoration and development of the private building on the Phillenes road where the services of the Parliament will be housed and its uniqueness will emerge. It is also worth mentioning that the approval of the Greek Parliament's twinning with the National Assembly of the Republic of Armenia, a country that, as we all know, is currently being tested within the framework of the European Twinning Programme. This is a EUR 1 million project aimed at providing services from Parliament to the Armenian Parliament in the context of monitoring the implementation and supervision of the European acquis. Finally, in the context of the support of the ESS, in the battle against the krone - the President of Parliament said so just now - there was an important contribution by Members and parties. More than EUR 1 100,000 have been made available and you will allow me to say that it makes us all happy to know that we have been able to support the purchase of equipment in several health structures in our country. As far as the 2020-2021 budget is concerned, the EUR 142.500,000 is increased by 2.11% compared with last year. In 2020-2021, the House is invited to cover, among other things, the cost of covering empty positions of scientific staff, increased insurance costs, as well as the increased cost of housing services and offices of fellow Members. It could not be foreseen for next year to cover expenditure on international relations under the rules imposed on us by the pandemic. Of course, the House will continue to support practical bodies, institutions and structures that offer society, particularly in this very difficult and unprecedented period of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u173	But finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u174	With regard to the 2019 financial statement, the appropriations were shaped at a lower level. These are elements whose accuracy has been checked, and that is why we agree with the adoption of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, too. We are giving the floor to my colleague from SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance Mr Mario Katsis. Mr. Katsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. I hope you can hear me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u177	We hear you very well. You have both the technical property and I think you've made the right thing to have good acoustic and visual coverage.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, I'm trying. Mr President, I would like to begin, since we are not given the opportunity because of the restrictive measures taken by the pandemic, expressing my deep grief and grief for the loss of the doctor of this House, the late Yiannis Metropoulou. He was really an amazing man. He was a man with whom your heart opened, a man always with the smile, a source of life for all. And in that sense I really am very sorry, as all my colleagues have said, that in one way or another. So let me begin - since we cannot be so often placed - with a more general comment on the situation that Greek society is experiencing today. The state of the national health system is marginal, ladies and gentlemen. Communication management on the part of the government, as is already available, is, in my opinion, a trade of hope, something that does not help. The government is thus enthusiastic about the disposal of the vaccine, and this has not yet been purchased. On the other hand, we have at the same time a targeting of the young world, youth, an unacceptable authoritarianism and anti-democratic behaviour which, at this difficult time, throws oil into the fire in a society that we do not forget is exhausted. In my opinion, the government needs to aim at the problems, on the needs of Greek society and the economy, to give incentives for a basic salary of EUR 2 000 to hire doctors, for permanent recruitment of doctors to the health system, to shield society, to protect human life. It needs to support small and medium-sized enterprises, support the world of work, those who work, but also support those who do not work, those who are unemployed or long-term unemployed and establish an exceptional allowance, an emergency allowance, which is more timely than ever, indeed. I close the general comment with what I saw on social networks today, which was a fist in the stomach of Greek society, from the Municipality of Pyrgos and the village of Pefki. Five children were found at the village's nearest cafe, unable to access the television process, in this fiasco, as it develops in the educational process. So five children were at the village's closest café to have internet, sharing a laptop and a mobile phone, trying to do television training. And this fist, this image cannot leave anyone unharmed, especially the Greek state. They must quickly respond to these needs, in these exceptional circumstances, not let inequalities widen. The government has a responsibility to reduce inequality and must assume all responsibilities. It's already late. I now come to the budget, making a specific reference to the very important donation decided by the Greek Parliament - all the parties - that is, the fifty beds, a new intensive treatment unit for the Salvation Hospital, donating 8 million euros. But this donation was subject to political controversy last week during the previous day's debate at the level of political leaders. I think it goes without saying that all Members of Parliament consider the duty and duty of the House to support this difficult situation in this important situation in order to open up the fifty beds. But it is also the duty of the House to check whether this 8 million-and-five bed donation has taken place. It is the duty of the Members. And there is no reason why the House should, in my opinion, hide behind the government's communication management and decide whether we would really count just beds or whether we would measure functional beds with staff and nurses. So it is critical and has no reason for the parliament to take part in the government as to whether the donation took place. The government chose to hide the problems under the carpet and made the known attack aimed at the "killer" character of Paul Polakis. They don't like Paul Paulakis for the way he talks, dresses, for anything. However, the government did not actually stand in the way that these beds are all functional and staffed. That is why the party's secretary Dimitris Tzanakopoulos and Parliament's secretary Olga Gerovasilis Hospital "Salvation" visited and noted that beds are not functional because they have not been staffed. The House should therefore promptly invite the government, if anything, to take the commitment, to be consistent with the Prime Minister, and to remove the commander of the hospital, as promised before the National Representation last week in the House. Nothing less. We are therefore obliged as parliamentarians as parties, as a Parliament, not to be involved in the communication planning of a government which is misusing and has, in my opinion, done so badly at this level. I also want to focus on the fact that it is right and I welcome the fact that there is an extension of Parliament's budget for digital systems. After all, this started during the presidency of Nikos Voutsi. I would remind you that Members now, you see it yourself, we can register in our speeches and vote electronically. This began during the presidency of Nikos Voutsi. Like also the fact that the bills in their processing and discussion are now electronically shared, while earlier they were printed, as were digital signatures that have been shared to the officials of the Parliament, but also to all administrative departments, as well as the electronic handling of documents at Parliament level, and communication with the Ministries became under the presidency of Nikos Voutsi, under the government of SYRIZA. It is important that today's Presidency should also proceed in this direction. However, with regard to this picture that I mentioned in quote, on the question of access for students, you know, it is not only the students in the Ilias Prefecture and the Local Community of Pefkis, that are thousands of students throughout the country who have failed to access the education process. This is a question of democracy, it is a question of increasing inequality. In my opinion, the House must give the signal to Greek society, in addition to a regular budget, by supporting some local communities, some disadvantaged mountain towns, by donating some laptops, some tablets in municipal schools and students with social criteria, based on how far they can afford it, if they do not have that possibility from their family budget. So we must give this signal to Parliament and all the Members of Parliament, so that we can give this message to the Greek society, thus pulling the government out of the sleeve to stand up to the circumstances and to resolve this issue that concerns thousands of students throughout the country and not just in the village of Pefki. I close with Parliament's expenditure on celebrating the two hundred years of the National Palagheesia. On 23-12-2019, by decision of the President of the Parliament, the Foundation of the Hellenic Parliament with two million euros for 2020 and another two million euros for 2021 was sponsored by the Greek Parliament. The budget for 2020 of the Foundation of the Greek Parliament has been reformed with an extra EUR 2 million in the category of events. We need to know and make known to the National Representation and the Greek people what amount of this money that has been budgeted has been spent and what is planned to be spent.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u179	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. You've more than doubled the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u180	I shall conclude, Mr President. And thanks for the tolerance. From EUR 4,8 million of the costs of the revised 2020 budget by EUR 31-8-2020, only EUR 800,000 had been spent. So we need to know how the House is progressing by increasing spending, celebrating and under the conditions that have been created, and exactly what money has been spent and planned to spend next year. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, too. Mr Kegeroglu has not been linked, because he is probably still in the Conference of Presidents. I have been asked for the floor by two parliamentary representatives, Mr Loverdos from the Change Movement and Mr Lebanese from New Democracy. Mr. Loverdo, because you asked him first, here you are, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u182	Mr. President, may I go up to the Step? If I'm going to talk to a mask...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u183	I see you better as I sit. If you want, you can get on the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u184	I prefer the seat, but I have to take off the mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u185	If you take the mask off, you'll come up here. That is how our sanitaries recommend us, because this avoids the spread of breaths and breaths with this protective knit. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u186	Mr President, before you put the time, may I ask you to do so. Let us make this clear as the Bureau. As a parliamentary representative I am many days and hours here, many times interventions underneath or by ministers are done without a mask and droplets are emitted. You see it with a naked eye sometimes. That's right. You're saying now that I'm going to step up. Do you know that this is not the case in parliamentary control? You need to make a decision. We broadcast here to the practicers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u187	When we last discussed the measures at the Conference of Presidents, there was a suggestion that we should take time, so that we do not spend too many hours in the Chamber, that we should speak from where we stand. But there was a response from health professionals that they should not. That is why, if you saw today, the President of Parliament, Mr Tasoulos, placed under the seat, had his mask. If anyone wants to be placed underneath, they have to have the mask. If he wants to be without a mask, he's got to get up on the Step. I think that parentheses were easy and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u188	Mr President, I shall observe this, despite the fact that Members of the Bureau do not follow your own tactics, which I believe to be the best in terms of protecting all of us here. We, when we speak underneath, especially on the first benches, have the practifiers to us. I think that this is not right and I shall follow exactly what you literally say from now on. Like Mr Gokas, our rapporteur, quite rightly, as I do sometimes, placing himself on matters of Parliament, I begin my introduction from the key phrase, that we are discussing Parliament's operating costs, so the cost of functioning democracy. That is right, Mr President, and I repeat it. This is a position of principle for someone who knows the issues of the institutions. It is a position of principle for anyone who knows about the operation of the states around the planet and knows that, however weak democracy has been, it takes precedence over all the states that people in one country or another have established them. That is what democracy can do, too. He can take it! But when we say so, we have people who listen to us. I do not agree with what the President of Mera25 Mr Varoufakis says that we are viewed as few people. Many people see us in this House, and we must be careful not only to address colleagues in this Chamber but also to the thousands of people who are watching us, who we cannot know who they are, how they think. So when one hears of Parliament's operating costs, namely democracy, it is not certain that it coincides with the opinion of experts, with the opinion of the people who love institutions, who respect the functioning of the democratic institutions. It's not certain. Because, many times, the difficulties of the democratic systems have given rise to reactions and when they hear us talking about it, namely, the functioning of democracy, they stand up against it. There is a matter here, especially in a country like ours, which the pandemic has succeeded. There are people who have been unable to raise their heads for ten years. Has it helped us to feel like a place of democracy, as a temple of democracy, the conflict, Mr Goka, as you have rightly said, over the last few days? Oh, no. With whomever I've spoken, whether he's a trade unionist or a free trader or he's one of the few people we've been on the street now because of the lockdown, everyone was negative to what happened. Everybody! The games of the political system conflicts may be of interest to us, but not to the many, not to the citizens. Such conflicts work at the expense of democracy, such as at the expense of democracy, and other major issues, when they are trapped in drawers of state services. In the last few days, Madam and honourable Members, I have been complaining about many people because pensions are no longer coming out. Teleworking, if measured by what is being done in terms of issuing pensions, i.e. handling difficult service procedures, if you ask a person who cares about himself, will tell you that the result is zero. What exactly is happening on this matter? Did we check it out? We'll check it out. So when one is suffering from such problems - there are many of them - there is not much to hear what we are saying here, our imports into the matter of the cost of the operation of this House and we must be very careful. We stress, as a party, that, because we operated on our own and prevalent in the first years of the crisis, we made the first serious reductions. The reductions in the operating costs of the House are correct, when the excesses are removed - but they must be examined strictly when they cause malfunctions. Efficacy must also be a principle when discussing the functioning of Parliament. We have therefore made the cuts in very basic funds, expenditure, which were deemed to have to be cut. And because I remember the House discussing this issue before the crisis, the Minutes, if anyone consults them, reveal that there was also an increase in costs in the treatment of alpha, beta-cost, gamma-costs. These have stopped. Now we are discussing a discussion and that will be left for many years. At least that's my wish and hope, and that's my effort. I note for intensive care units the initiative of our own party. We took the initiative, the PASOK took the initiative, the Change Movement, with the reduction of our wages, our compensation, in order to buy, equip, even more intensive treatment units, IF beds. And it was a very good move. Madam and honourable Members, I could say a lot now. I'm limited. But I do not take advantage of the comfort that the Bureau gives for this debate. I close, however, by saying that a very good activity in this House is its publications. I don't know if the pace is over. It seems to me that the pace has been interrupted and I stress that this is not right. It was and it's a very good job that this House is doing. This work will remain beyond the existing political connections. It will continue. It has to go on. It's a useful job, this Parliament's publishing offer is useful. I close by saying that it has been about a year since the Revision of the Constitution and still the text of the Revision of the Constitution, combined with the Rules of Parliament, we do not have it. Those of us who are faced with parliamentary duties are unable to reach agreement on the quick demands. Mr Bourras, as President-in-Office, has the support of Parliament's services - and rightly so - to see how he will preside over a regulation. We, who suddenly have to see the text and what interpretation has been given and what is to be given, are looking at the aids we have bought, but which are not the proper ones, are not the appropriate ones. I have a text of the new constitution and the new Rules of Procedure, but there is a problem with the extradition that I have. It is not as old - as recently, not long ago - these very usable particles that helped us react immediately when Parliament's Rules of Procedure were being raised. Why? As many times as I participate in the Conference of Presidents, I have obviously said so with due respect to the President of Parliament. Why? Why all these months? Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to my speech, since we are discussing Parliament and its internal and financial resources, as a parliamentary representative throughout the pandemic - first phase, second phase, I hope that it will be the last - I am here. I haven't lost - almost-meeting. It is very important for democracy that we have not closed down, although there have been proposals, incorrectly, to close down. It is very important for democracy, the fact that, seeing us here, the citizen understands that we are not afraid and not afraid of this situation, even though we are all concerned, but we are here to serve the Greek people in the current needs created by the pandemic and that, unfortunately, will also leave its remnants for the post- pandemic era. In this sense, they deserve congratulations and we owe thanks to the services and officials of this House, and I hope, Madam President, that we will be in the last few months of this sad and so harsh situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u189	And we thank Mr. Loverdo. As far as the issue that you have raised quite rightly is concerned, I am not in a position to reply to you. But what I am going to do is keep the point about the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House so that it is properly transferred and settled. We will conclude the present process with the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Lebanese. Here, Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President. I would not have taken the floor today because, as always, Mr Vassilis Ypsilant, our rapporteur, has fully covered the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, as well as the intervention of the President of this House and other colleagues from all the parties who have spoken, they have highlighted the importance of the budget and the offer of this House. But I felt the need to give three answers, which is why I asked to speak. Mr Tasoulos and today he informed the plenary and through it the Greek people - perhaps his colleague from SYRIZA who spoke before he did not listen to him - about the adequacy of the fifty beds that we all worked together to help operate at the Salvation Hospital. He said thirty a patient is hospitalized there today, and three already got discharged. I think we need to stop this debate on whether these beds exist and are functional, because it is not of interest to those who are trying to create false impressions. The second is that Professor Evanthes Hadjivassiliou - to anyone who knows him at least - is a socialist and his integrity and his democratic ethos and, of course, his academic adequacy. It is, in our opinion - and I think all of his students at university, but also all those who have read his books in the past decades - an excellent choice for the Foundation of the Parliament and its work. He has already given written samples as a member of the Foundation's Scientific Committee and the last one to say about Evantis Hadjivassiliou - someone, of course, who has the same view and knows exactly the work of man and his quality and not someone who is simply posing politically against a choice - is that he is trying to see the newest history of our country divisively and revisedly. That's exactly the opposite. He's the scientist and the man who will really sweat to highlight historical truth. I would like - and I ask the representative of Mera25 - to do so when he completes his term of office and see that what I tell you today is right and it was a right choice to make your self-criticism. The third is addressed to SYRIZA. No-one, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population Officers, in the New Democracy, moves the finger and does not refer to law and order, especially the way you mean it. The Government of New Democracy and our resignation are concerned and serve the rule of law and security if you understand the difference between the two. In order for there to be a rule of law, however, it is absolutely necessary to implement the law. In order to be safe in today's day, it is also necessary to have common sense. That is the main issue. Individual positions, Mr Alexiadis, or acts of today's New Democracy from the very distant past in which you have referred, have been overly discussed in the public debate and have been fully answered by the people involved. But I want to say something. We are obviously judged for individual acts that we have all done. But we are also critical of our overall parliamentary life and our overall contribution to the political life of the country. And so I think you should judge all your colleagues, but also those whom you referred to before. The same, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, has not been done by your own group. I have not heard any self-criticism from today's SYRIZA MPs who even now attack Greek police vulgarity, those children who do their job, their colleagues and Greek justice and the institutions of the state. I propose, especially these days, restraint and seriousness to the political word of all of us and, above all, to the actions that we are doing in and out of Parliament and in the example we give. Let us not forget the educational role of politics. Our experiential example, what we do and what the Greek people see, is much more important than our political decisions and, of course, from our words, which we very often realise do not have any continuity. It is in the interests of all Greeks and Greeks not to become the terrible pandemic, the murderous virus, the field of division, intensity and effort to create party fronts, with the aim of voting. Faced with the spread of pandemic, the reduction of deaths and cases, the upgrading and strengthening of the ESS, civil protection, are areas of convergence rather than division. Unity and understanding await from us the Greek people in their overwhelming majority. Today, above our party and political differences, above the ideologies, which mainly refer to yesterday, we must defend public health, save the lives of our fellow citizens and protect everyone's health. We must assume our responsibilities politically and individually and then come back to bring our economy up again. In conclusion, I should like once again to thank both our colleagues and especially our colleagues, the officials of this House, for observing health measures and for the excellent functioning of Parliament throughout this difficult phase. Continuing from the thought of Andreas Lovertos, I think it is very important that all those who disagree on how useful for democracy themselves are the continuation of the operation of this Parliament, and I call again on all those who disagree, to prove together that democracy never enters the quarantine in Greece, the House operates and produces rich legislative work, parliamentary control is continuous and creative. All together, all the Members of all the parties and all the officials of the House, this model of operation of the House can become our national model in order to overcome this crisis. Let's not waste another time on false splits and wrong political messages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u191	And we thank Mr Lebanese. Because I'm watching Mr. Gika on the screen, if he hears us, make sure he contacts the Steinographic Service. In some parts you have not heard so well, so that the recorders cannot write what you said. Before the final printing takes place, give the points at issue, or rather, the whole of your place, to settle the matter. I think Mr. Gikas heard that. Let's get in touch with the agency. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Parliament's expenditure budget for the financial year 2021 and on the Parliament's expenditure statement for the financial year 2019 and this annex (report 2019 of the Parliamentary Foundation for Parliament and Democracy). We proceed to vote on Parliament's budget of expenditure for the financial year 2021 by way of expenditure, results from its use and total and Parliament's statement of expenditure for the financial year 2019 and the Annex thereto (report 2019 of the Parliament's activities for Parliament and the Republic) by way of expenditure, results from its use and the total and their vote will be taken separately. We note that the vote includes: First, the Parliament's budget of expenditure for the financial year 2021 and, second, the Parliament's statement of expenditure for the financial year 2019 and the annex thereto (recital 2019 of the Parliament's work on Parliament's and Democracy Foundation). I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u192	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u193	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u194	The Parliament's expenditure budget for the financial year 2021 was therefore accepted by a single majority. Also, the Parliament's Expenditure Report for the financial year 2019 and its Annex (Report 2019 of the Parliamentary Foundation for Parliament and Democracy) at the expense, results from its use and in total, were accepted in a single majority debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u196	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-19-S1-commons.u197	With the agreement of the House at 15.22 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 20 November 2020 at 9 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work, Parliament's scrutiny: a) Topical and urgent debate and b) Topical and urgent debate. 2/212-10-2020 topical question to Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group to the Minister for Culture and Sport, on the subject: 'No strategy and anti-social policy in the field of culture'.
