ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the House's 27-1-2020 authorisation, the minutes of its PRACULAR Sessions, of 27-1-2020 as regards the adoption of the draft law as a whole: ‘Following its individual donation contracts from 6.9.2018 Donation contract between the Foundation “Stavros S. Niarchos” and the Greek State to strengthen and upgrade health infrastructures, ratified by Law 4564/2018 (A170) and other provisions’.]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate and vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: 'A birth allowance and other provisions'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 23 January 2020 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, uniform, in principle, on articles and amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. The list of speakers with the electronic system will be opened by the end of the second period. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mrs Maria - Alexandra Head for 15 minutes, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to vote on a bill with social importance and national implications. Under the draft law on birth allowance and other provisions, the Government of New Democracy legislates what it has announced and adopts for the first time a birth allowance. One - one - the election promises of the New Democracy Government are being made. The bills that come after each other demonstrate the government's readiness to form a new reality for our country, bills that clearly identify our different approaches and political startings, bills that strip opposition politically, bills that the Greek people understand their essence and accept them positively. So today the bill of birth allowance and other provisions, which we are discussing, is another example of our policy. It detracts from the myth that social sensitivity and social care are the privileges of the Left. This draft law has eyes on the whole of society. We will all agree in this Chamber that the state taking initiatives for the immediate development and implementation of demographic policy measures, in all the context of the country's budgetary possibilities, is more than necessary. It's urgent. It's a national case. In a country where infertileness is a huge problem, which the next generations will find before them, we are coming today to give an extra incentive for new couples. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, is structured at two levels. In the first part, we regulate the grant of the allowance. We are introducing for the first time the 2,000 euro birth allowance for every child born in Greece from 1-1-2020, while respecting and fulfilling all the conditions laid down in this bill. If we look at it from a constitutional point of view, the grant of the allowance is a manifestation of the care of the State for the Greek family, which is guaranteed by a constitutional provision in the provision of Article 21(1) of our Constitution, as well as within the same constitutional framework, in accordance with paragraph 5 of that article, the state's obligation is to design and implement a good demographic policy, as well as to take all necessary measures. The mother of the child will generally be the beneficiary receiving the allowance. However, the allowance will also be received by the father who is diligent of the child and who is permanently and legally resident in the country but also by anyone who exercises custody upon the relevant judicial decision. We pay the allowance in two instalments equal to the first instalment on the last working day of the following month from the month of application and the second six months after birth of the child. Within a more general spirit of the present Government to modernise procedures, we make the application for the birth allowance possible directly from the maternity hospital, by digital application, and we introduce to the public administration a new automated procedure for issuing a registration number and the child's social security number in the registration act of that birth. We're in 2020. No more trouble in the tail. No more bureaucracy. We have said this on several occasions. We take seriously the requirement of the times for digital transformation of all services. We are making the digitisation, simplification and automation as much as possible. We thus relieve public administration of bureaucracy and citizens of lengthy procedures. We have said that we will improve the daily lives of the citizens and step by step. You have repeatedly said, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that you welcome us in the policy of allowances which we have been appalled so far in the run-up to the elections. The New Democracy has never been and it is not against social welfare, no matter how much the Left wants to rob it, and we prove this with the bills that we bring to Parliament to vote, bills based on the social interest of our country and its development. On the contrary, we welcome you to development policy, investment policy, sound financial planning and tax relief, implemented by the Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis. We are therefore giving birth allowance where the equivalent family income does not exceed EUR 40,000 annually. 99%, that is, citizens are entitled to the allowance. We cover the vast majority of families. A very small percentage of society as a whole will not receive it. They are the most prosperous, the ones for whom the economy is not a proven problem for bringing a child into the world. Ladies and gentlemen, the beneficiary of the allowance should have a legal and permanent residence on the Greek territory, as well as one of the five properties: the Greek citizen, the indigenous foreigner, who has a special identity card of a homogeneous nature, the citizen of a Member State of the European Union, the citizen of a State belonging to the European Economic Area or citizen of the Swiss Confederation and the citizen of a third country with a previous 12-year stay in the country before the child's birth year. We value the twelve-year stay as a full-time and capable, so that a strong living bond with the country has proved through constant contact with Greek culture and consciousness. However, we exclude children born in Greece in 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023, since their mother as a third-country citizen in this case has been residing permanently, legally and consistently on Greek territory since 2012. We are setting the beneficiaries of the allowance a legal framework, in accordance with European regulations and constitutional values, and we are giving the allowance to Greeks and to those who are inextricably linked to the country, nothing more, nothing less. We reserve, ladies and gentlemen, not counting on the amount of the allowance to be paid to the total annual income. The allowance will not be taxed or subject to fees, contributions and any other form of bookings. It will not be confiscated and it will not be offset by any debts, whether to the public and public bodies or to private legal persons. No bank will retain one euro from its birth allowance for claims and debts. In the second part of the bill, ladies and gentlemen, we are reforming and updating four but basic allowances. The housing allowance, the child's allowance, the allowance of mountainous and disadvantaged areas and the minimum guaranteed income. We add, as beneficiaries of the child's privilege, citizens of third countries protected by rules both international and European law, as these rules have been incorporated into Greek law. However, we consider that the citizens of third countries who are not under special regime the previous compulsory 12 years of residence in the country to be an adequate compulsory period of time. We are raising the limit from five to twelve years for all the benefits of the beneficiary citizens from third countries that are in the country. We have been doing it for twelve years, because twelve is a full-time school course at school, and we think it is a good time to develop a strong link between a third-country citizen and our country. However, we ensure that the child and the housing allowance continue to be granted to the already beneficiaries. Anyone who has received these benefits so far will continue to receive them properly. Then, for the housing allowance, we define the equal treatment of the seven categories of beneficiaries with the Greek citizens and we introduce as a criterion the granting of a child's and a housing allowance corresponding to the need for children to be trained during compulsory education. As a student, not only do we mean the registration of this but also the actual schooling of the child during the school year. A great deal has been said about the condition of compulsory actual schooling for the allowances which this draft law touches, and because Greek citizens are watching us at the moment it is important to clarify some things so that there is no confusion. Unfortunately, it is part of your policy, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, to distort things. So no allowance cutbacks are hidden behind the association with the school. We don't work punishingly. Honourable would be a state that keeps its children excluded from school. If a child has problems in learning and needs to repeat class, then his parents normally get the allowance. If a child is absent for medical reasons and for a long time and stays absent, then his parents normally take the allowance and the housing and the child and the minimum guaranteed income. At the core of our policy is the child. We want to combat the unjustified absence and the school leak. With the help of these provisions on actual schooling, we seek to reduce the unjustified abstention of minor pupils from their school duties and to strengthen parental care. Stop hypocrisy. We have no memory of goldfish, neither of us nor of the Greek people. You have a government past and it's bad. Continuing with the rest of the bill, ladies and gentlemen, we are making the previous assent of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs for the adoption of any decision to transfer or post employees from the Social Welfare Centres and other privileged structures to the issuing of the Agency. When we received the Ministry of Social Welfare and Solidarity, the welfare centres were subordinated. Sustained, though, why? Because you have not taken care, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, to ensure that they are properly and fully served. You came and legislated organic positions in 2018 and until we received in July 2019 there was no ASP notice coming out and we got it through direct and rapid procedures. We therefore set limits on the mobility of civil servants from the welfare centres who, once they came to the centres after a while, left for other services. Then, in this bill, we adopt the tax-free and inappropriate annual income support for the permanent inhabitants of mountainous and disadvantaged regions, an allowance which they have received so far but which counts for the annual taxable income. We exempt this draft law from any netting of public debts, other public sector bodies and credit institutions, so that as a genuine social policy measure we can guarantee the income of the beneficiary families and provide for the non-assessment of the aid to the income ceilings for the payment of any other provision of a social or prosperous nature. Ladies and gentlemen, we expressly set out in this bill on the last working day of each month as the day of payment of allowances, because payment of all allowances is unreasonable in the way you have left it to be, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA. You've been hampering the beneficiaries of benefits for a long time. You put them in front of television receivers on the morning news show waiting for the bar to pass, to inform them when you will decide to give them each allowance. Fiesta, communication! The beneficiaries, however, do not see them as a show but as an aid to organise their family financial planning. Social policy does not go through press releases, where the date of payment of benefits is indicated. Social policy is in practice evidenced by those who, in fact, need state support. Many allowances granted by the agency do not have a certain payment date. That is why we say that all benefits will be granted on the last working day of the month and finally. We will not do the "Agiosilis" whenever it suits us for voting purposes like you. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we provide the opportunity to participate in the municipality funding programme. Unfortunately, there are municipalities in the country where infants, children or nurseries do not operate and which, however, have properties which can accommodate such structures. This regulation enables municipalities which have structures and building facilities to be able to join the programme that they could not before. The possibility of financing these is to establish new sections of infant, child and baby care, and to cover the need to find jobs and municipalities or legal persons who do not have such structures. The main pillar of our social policy is the care for the child and the effort to improve demographic indicators in the country. That is why we are aiming not only at the growth of existing structures but also at the creation of further facilities and accommodation places, structures and positions which will be made available for pre-school children by public bodies. Municipalities operating up to two parts of infant, child or baby care may participate in the financing programme for the operation as four sections and municipalities that had ready-to-do buildings and did not enter the programme can now set up up up to two infant, child or nursery stations. No children, ladies and gentlemen, no children, no children's station! You tabled an amendment, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, for the permanentisation of CSR officials and because the amendment signs it all the leadership of the Ministry of Home Affairs, Labour and Social Solidarity in the Government of SYRIZA, is reasonably created both to me and to other colleagues but above all to the Greek people the following question: You were a government, Mrs Fotou, more than four years ago. What have you done to date on this matter? And yet another technical and substantial aspect, that the staffing of the JAPDs is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior and Economics. However, the issue of CSR and CSR - AIA concerns us and we are particularly sensitive to this. For this reason, the Ministry will examine the framework for the operation and authorisation of the JAPDs. Subsequently, we redefined the way in which dues from employers' contributions were settled until 31/12-2018 to the social security institutions and specified the terms and conditions under which the central office of the Centre for the Collection of Insurance Debts shall delete dues dues for legal or natural persons until 31 January of the following calendar year. We are derecognising dues of twenty-year-old debts created until 31 January 2021 up to EUR 200 per debtor and outstanding accredited debts per year up to EUR 10 per debtor. With the implementation of these write-offs, we prevent the accumulation of small debts of doubtful collectivity, which puts brakes on strategic planning. We are thus helping to improve the functioning of the body. We reduce the capital for issuing notifications and we release staff from seeking to collect those debts. In many cases the amount due is less than its collection costs, resulting in any procedure for this purpose causing a disproportionate administrative burden. We provide additional support in the context of the digital transformation of the EBRD in the year 2020 to enable the development of e-government-level level 4 transactions and the electronic transaction of the insured with the services of the ECA. We facilitate citizens by carrying out the relevant electronic procedures. Without a compulsory visit to the OLAF branches, we are saving working hours and we are not afflicting the citizen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have said so at committee meetings, but I mention it here too. It was the government of New Democracy, which first established in Greece the minimum guaranteed income under Minister Giannis Vroutzis. The minimum guaranteed income was placed in a pilot scheme entitled ‘Pilot programme of minimum guaranteed income’ under Law 4093/2012. SYRIZA simply changed the name to one of the many baptisms he made during his term of office. You have baptized the minimum guaranteed income in CRLs. We do not, however, live in SYRIZA's micropsy, but we must also be in politics with great vigour. We don't care about rhetoric and baptism. We are interested in producing real work, delivering a state to the citizens better financially and organisationally than we have received. We now have the minimum guaranteed income to the Prime Minister of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and are constitutionally guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. It does not depend on the will of each government and every Minister. It is a constitutional provision, because this is what we proposed and voted by an absolute majority during the last Greek Review House, a measure of paramount importance which is a manifestation of social welfare, respect for the citizen and the social rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is a social bill with implications of both national and insurance. The Government and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs have once again moved in the right direction. We are doing targeted and responsible for solving the problems, always having a basic pillar of our society's political demands and human value. In expressing the pulse of society, we are bringing this bill to a vote, a bill which is part of the government's overall effort to resolve the major problem of demographics. They establish a demographic policy with the grant of the birth allowance, an effort that we have so far framed outside of the birth allowance and day-care facilities and other measures such as the reduction of VAT on infants to 13% from 24%, the abolition of luxury living tax on private vehicles of more than 2 000 cubic metres, the strengthening of duty-free 1 000 euros for each minor child and others, which clearly shows the axis of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, an anthropocentric axis. So, today, we are establishing a modern demographic policy with the grant of the birth grant, we are founding the future of Greece, a future based on the economic sustainable development of the country, the reversal of the climate of ingenuity and the restoration of trust between the citizen and the state that has been so missing in recent years. With this draft law, we are setting a good start for the country's general demographic policy, a policy aimed at increasing the incentives for births of more children in order to reverse the climate created by the demographic collapse of our country. And other initiatives will be taken on the part of the government. As yet a bill by the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis we are doing nothing more than self-evident, that is, what is in need of immediate regulation and which we have identified as bad texts from the previous government. We do not make cheap donation policies and phantoms. Here, moreover, there is a huge ideological difference between us and the obsessive and ideoleptic SYRIZA. Our policy is development. We always believe in work on equal opportunities and always supporting our most vulnerable fellow citizens. It's our great ideological difference. We have a realistic policy to implement what we have announced. And most importantly we bring practical bills, bills that will make their results felt to the entire Greek people from the next day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u4	The rapporteur of SYRIZA Mr. Theano Fotou is called in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, I would like, at least, time with my previous colleague. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's bill, we have a great opportunity to show the Greek people our great, substantial differences with the New Democracy - SYRIZA with New Democracy - on the issue of demographic and child issues. Enter a 2,000 euro allowance for the child’s birth. We support it as a first aid to the major needs associated with each birth. But you are ridiculing the seriousness of the current demographic problem when you mention in the explanatory statement that 'EUR 2 000' - to say - 'is one of the foundations of the country's demographic policy and an important incentive for future parents'. You were told by all the institutions. We call on you to remove these two proposals from the explanatory statement for seriousness. In 1993, the Intergroup Committee of Parliament proposed measures to deal with demographic trends. For twenty years you have been ruling - because you are asking us what we did at four and a half - you have done nothing. In 2013, you have just voted for an escalating allowance of EUR 40 to EUR 13 a month for the child, who was the drop in the ocean, because since 2011, deaths have been more than births. You put us in 2010 in the memoirs, after you destroyed the country and the economy with your policies. By 2015, unemployment had reached 27% and 25% of the country's GDP had been destroyed. By 2015, ELSTAT recorded that one in our five fellow citizens from the middle-medium-class, you say it - passed into the poor layers, which were impoverished and all together lost 40% of their incomes. Demographic worsened. What does a couple need to have a child? Safety at work and shelter, good jobs, security and a strong social state with benefits and free services for the child until the end of his studies. We restored collective agreements and, indeed, improved the wages of hundreds of thousands of workers. We increased the minimum wage to EUR 650, we abolished the subordinate, we managed to drop unemployment of 10 units, we strengthened the APR to control employers' immunity. You, the good day, abolished the APRC, the collective agreements in practice, set the minimum wage at EUR 650. You do not even give the 2.8% increase, not the 4% with which you intercepted the votes of the Greek people. Therefore, you do not even give the EUR 35 per month an extra increase for this year that would have attracted maternity and unemployment benefits. Unemployment is growing for the first time after four and a half years of continuous decline - for the first time! - with you! So you're creating security for parents to have a child? Therefore, instead of malignancies, let the House vote on the amendment we tabled to support the mother after birth. This lifts an injustice against women under fixed-term private law in the wider public sector and local government of first and second grades, which so far have not received the OAED half-yearly allowance after birth, as did private workers. As for housing security, for the first time we introduced the housing allowance for six hundred thousand fellow citizens, we had 300 million in 2009. What did you do until you ruled? Nothing! You today, with this bill, are cutting off the allowance to thousands of beneficiaries with the specific actions you are doing. We had provided for the'red' loans the first home protection law - obviously Katseli - and an additional grant of EUR 200 million to the loans of families who would go into the support mechanism. You leave families without any protection after April. Mr. Georgiadis warned us about this, so we wouldn't ruin our hearts. What about the hearts of children who will stay without a roof? Let us come to the second great prerequisite that we consider as SYRIZA, but also the 2018 intergroup committee voted for by the New Democracy, the Change Movement and SYRIZA, for the demographics. It says there, then, that in order to tackle the demographic situation, it needs a strong social state, education, health, welfare. Without public free quality education and public free health no family feels safe to have children. Here, in fact, we have a fundamental difference with New Democracy and its ideas, that is, we have increased the budgets in these three areas, you have cut them down for 2020 and promote the privatisation of all these three areas. The recent report on demographics signed in 2018, therefore, says that a prerequisite for resolution is the development of welfare. In 2015, New Democracy gave us welfare with fifty three employees - there is no one in any country in the world - two hundred allowances granted by hundreds of twenty sources, without uniform procedures and criteria. The epitome of the client state and the interlocutory, without any safety net for extreme poverty, with children fainting in schools! Greece did not exist in the pro-European map until 2015 for the simple reason that you gave EUR 789 million, namely 0.4% of GDP, when the average European is ten times more than 4%. We have managed to put EUR 3.5 billion in four and a half years and reached the country's average of 2% of GDP. We have created a digital transparent state with two forty-two community centers and OPEKA that pays digitally all the allowances from 24 to 28 each month. You have now remembered that we need to make a digital state! We did, you know, and that is, in fact, the shield against customer relations and in favour of the dignity and equivalence of the beneficiaries. This is our big difference. You think the welfare money is lost by growth. We consider it to be developmental, that is, the EUR 3.5 billion we have given will return to the economy at least EUR 4 billion, because everyone knows that they have a budgetary rate of 1,03 to 1,06. You consider the money given for welfare as a charity, which the state has given, if it has not given, to the notorious "pipe" that Mr Mitsotakis says. We consider them to be an obligation of the state and intervention against social inequalities for a society of equality and equality. Of the EUR 3.5 billion for welfare, 1.4 billion directly relates to policies for the child, child allowance, nursery schools and school meals. The child's allowance was received in 2015. You gave it to us 650 million euros for a million four hundred thousand children. We doubled it. In other words, we gave a total of 1,1 billion euros and then, oh of the miracle, six hundred thousand children entered. How did that happen, how did it become two hundred thousand more children? Quite simply, we planned a fair allowance, decent, of EUR 40 for the child, we did 70 for the child, and we gave it digitally, i.e. we didn't trouble the citizen. The working mother and the jobseeker need nurseries. In 2015, we received seventy - nine thousand free positions of children at nursery stations. Why? Because you'd rule out the unemployed mothers. Now you can tell us if you can rule them out again. We managed to constantly increase, all the years until then, the free places for children in infants and in the summer of 2019, we managed to put a hundred and fifty - six thousand children, that is, everything they had applied for in infants. For these positions Mr Mitsotakis, Mr Theodorikos and Mr Brutsis congratulated each other three days after the takeover of power, in other words on 10 July. In the committee, the Minister, who has a divorce with the truth, told us that the government is increasing the position of primary nurseries. This is again a matter of ownership of our own policy and money. In other words, it is the 15m euros that we secured in 2018, from the spending review - remembers Mr Tsakalotos here - and we gave them to establish new nursery facilities. We spent half the money in positions and money. With this money, you're now doing these announcements, all that's left to you. We have legislated on the two-year compulsory pre-school education which has freed up positions in nursery schools to receive more children up to four years old. Mr Brutsis presented it to the committee as his own achievement, 'in favour of the demographic problem'. He forgot to tell us that the New Democracy had voted against the Gavroglou law that established it. The nurseries, the CIPs and the CIPs - ACAs make a significant contribution to addressing the demographic problem. That is why we have tabled an amendment to include CSRs and CSRs - ACA organically in municipalities by creating permanent jobs and by creating increased mobilisation of existing servants. We invite you to vote on it. Leave the excuses. We've been four and a half years government. We didn't have time to do everything. We had budgeted how much it cost - EUR 53 million - and it is from the OAS. You can find the money because the OAED's money is fountaining. We gave hot school meals to the country's primary schools. In 2019 we had reached eighty - five thousand daily school meals. The New Democracy has smashed them and today is undermining them with delays. It is a basic measure - from what the two committees said - and the '93' and '18 against school leakage, not penalising provisions which you bring and are 'against' school leakage and 'in favour' of school performance. We saw that where the school meals went. As I said at the outset, SYRIZA is voting for the birth allowance and we are tabling an amendment to the one-off payment. We welcome the New Democracy to the logic of the benefits that it has had in the run-up to the election. We believe that allowances and benefits are the State's real intervention in favour of social inequalities in favour of a society of equality and justice. At the same time, we said they were contributing to growth, as they increase consumption and create new jobs. Evidence is that by cutting the social dividend by 600m euros the market, as everyone says, has fallen to at least 24%. However, the bill with a cover for birth allowance is actually undermining the efforts to combat subnatality, since it deprives thousands of beneficiaries of three basic benefits to tackle the demographic problem: the CRL, the social income of solidarity, the housing allowance and the child's allowance, designed and implemented by SYRIZA. It is the cuts that hide behind the other provisions, to pass them painless. Trying to save with these welfare funds to close the insurance hole. It was your commitment to the institutions that if you have a hole in the insurance, you'll get the money through the Ministry of Labour. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We had said it in the budget and we have confirmed that the EUR 400 million that you are cutting off the welfare, a piece of it will go there. So cut these benefits in two ways. Firstly, if even one of the family's children repeats the order because of absences, this is a punishing provision that creates, among other things, the guilt of it being cut off by the family's benefits. It is, however, an anti-educational and anti-educational measure which runs counter to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child ratified by our country and which takes precedence over national law, as you know. It is shameful that the Ministers for Education and Social Affairs sign the violation of the child's right to decent living - one of his rights -, defending - allegedly - his right to education. Not sending the child to school at all is dealt with in the first place by his obligation to produce the registration of his child at the time of the application, as we did with the CRL. You're not opening any new roads. It was very good what we did and so we managed to increase school integration in degraded areas and areas with Roma camps. Look at the evidence. As far as early school leaving is concerned, we can deal with it with the monitoring carried out by teachers through the Myschool Programme. After all, your State Secretary confessed with the extension of school meals, as I said before, with the assistance of school workers in schools and municipalities. Secondly, the bill cuts birth benefits, child, housing, depending on the origin of their children, parents, demanding refugees and immigrants a 12-year tax declaration. We consider it unacceptable that children should be separated according to their origin. As the Citizens' Counsel has said, this distinction runs counter to Union law, "the permanent and legal residence of children", which is a legal term, "may and must be treated uniformly for all parents", for housing and child benefits - we had it with demand for everyone, not for some, twelve years - a five-year tax declaration, and for the birth allowance as for the CRL, it was enough to make a tax declaration in the last year. We also disagree with the reduction in the number of members on the board of the National Social Solidarity Centre from eleven to seven, because you have abolished representatives of bodies so that the Minister finally appoints five of the seven members of the Management Board to control it fully politically. Moreover, you are abolishing mobility for workers in the social welfare centres and all the welfare providers and you blame us for doing so because we have left these centres in a terrible state because of a lack of staff. In 2015, Madam Secretary, we received two thousand eighty permanent and subsidiary staff. In 2019, we handed you two thousand and eighty permanent and subsidiary staff and another four hundred and fifty people from OAED's public works programmes and new scientists that you're abolishing. We have established three hundred ninety-three new posts of permanent staff and four hundred eighty AS. It's one of them that you've only been proclaiming three hundred nine. Leave the messages we gave you less. In other words, we have increased staff in Memorandum Surveillance and under rule 1 to 5. Look, don't bring him back. We delivered you sixteen agencies that you had to draw up and you did nothing. Instead of abolishing mobility, then, proceed to recruitment and organizations. The bill renames the CRL from social solidarity income to minimum guaranteed income. It is your ideological obsession, as if you were giving a guaranteed income to the 200 euros you are going to give now. You're changing nothing, neither in the procedures nor in the preconditions. The minimum guaranteed income was an obligation of the second Memorandum in 2012. By 2014, the New Democracy did nothing. Two months before the election, he implemented a pilot project called guaranteed social income, CSR. Read the CVT 3018/7-11-2014, Article 2. You never gave a minimum guaranteed income. Never! So you left us this, thirteen municipalities, 20 million. In other words, by 2015, you had not given one euro for the hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens who experienced the greatest humanitarian crisis. The guaranteed social income was found to be failed and useless by the evaluators you yourself set for it. That's why we planned it all along. We called it CRL, not to mock the world, social income of solidarity, giving 700 million to six hundred thousand of our fellow citizens, who had left themselves to extreme poverty and their fate. But the CRL is a European originality, so you do not dare change it. It's always open to apply every day. Crosses on line at the same time. Six databases. There has been no such thing to you in your plans, the applicant's incomes in the last six months. I mean, it catches the man in his need. You, with the unsuccessful guaranteed social income, thus once a year predict on the basis of his last tax declaration, his incomes a half and two years ago. That was your concern for the people who were in the most recent poverty. The JRC, beyond the allowance, still has two pillars that Mr Brutsis is ignoring. Let me tell him: It's the provision of free services. Free food, free nursery, free water, free health care and social price.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u6	My colleague, you've exhausted your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u7	I haven't exhausted anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u8	It's gone, even though I don't know if there's gonna be any seconds. So please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u9	I shall conclude, Mr President. Second, integration into work. We have done so by linking the beneficiaries with the OAS's public works programme. This explains how in 2017 there were six hundred thousand beneficiaries of the CRL and in 2019, four hundred seventy thousand. That's why the CRL didn't become a trap of poverty. Because a hundred and eighty thousand people found a job. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about New Democracy's well-known communication fairy tales, trying to take care of all SYRIZA's things and eradicate the SYRIZA's events from collective memory. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting for the birth grant, we are voting against the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u10	Are there any colleagues who have not said that they wish to speak, because the list will be closed? There are some colleagues who have now entered the Chamber. Oh, no. So please close the list now. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-nine students and students and two teachers from the General Church High School of Risario. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The special speaker, George Mulkiotis, is now called in Stepma for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. We must address issues with coolness, because as politicians we are not listening for the first time to some things we have a past and we must recognise our past and our projects. That's a message to everyone. Furthermore, a second message which I would like to say, because it is the first time I have spoken in plenary since the day before yesterday, as the Catholics say, hasemus an insurance bill. After revolts and leaks - and when I say holidays, I mean, without considering the parties and the Greek Parliament, and the insurance bill has been put into consultation - there has been great confusion among the citizens and the insurance bill has finally been posted. Of course, I should like to stress that the final state is breaking somewhere. As much as it's based on communication, it breaks. And that shows a lot. Ladies and gentlemen, a country without children is a country without a future, and I am glad that they are listening to us children and their teachers, to get some messages from us politicians in the Greek Parliament. In Greece, the demographic problem with the main features of the birth and ageing of the population is an established and undeniable event, which will not only remain but will further exacerbate as long as we are unable to deal with the necessary seriousness, consistency and effectiveness of the causes that cause it. The Change Movement, based on the negative development of demographic sizes and the future look and the new generation, which suffers, in particular, from the labour crisis and precariousness, in 2018, has tabled a set of proposals for a coherent national demographic policy. From our proposals, the New Democracy Government - with Law 4646/2019 - has indeed adopted the transfer of a topic of basic infant species, namely milk, clothing, wagons, diapers at 13%. But it's a very big factor. The proposal of the Change Movement was to have a rate of 6%, which the ND refused and with this draft law is indeed also adopted by the government in our proposals. Specifically what it adopts. Firstly, linking the provision of family allowances, housing allowances and minimum guaranteed income to the actual schooling of the child of the family in compulsory education. And secondly, he has adopted the inconsistency and inconsistency of the birth allowance. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, although it also contains positive provisions, is not characterised by a comprehensive plan that ensures the stability and adequacy of family income and the harmonisation of family and working life. What our discussions in the committee showed during the meetings of the relevant parliamentary committee on social affairs is the lack of a holistic strategic plan to tackle the demographic problem. We have stressed that the Greek Parliament and the special committee on demographics has a very important and serious finding which does not take account of it, as the government must take full account of this and only adopts a few things. The government's proposal for an allowance of EUR 2,000 for every child born by 1-1-2020 is a cowardly measure, which obviously goes easy through society. Clearly it is a help to the families, and that cannot be denied. But that's not good enough. Since the development of demographic sizes is linked to a complex spirit of trends at social, economic, political and cultural levels and interacts with the implementation of public policies, both in the fields of education and in family life, as well as in gender equality, fertility - and I speak of motherhood and paternality - the integration of legitimately distributed populations and policies forming the productive model of the country comes the Change Movement and goes on to tabling an amendment with 9 articles, with a general protocol number 144 and a special 9. The amendment becomes extremely necessary, Minister, as it makes a decisive contribution to the creation of institutions and an integrated framework for family support, with or without children, in order to reverse the extremely worrying trends in the country's demographic sizes. They're very negative and very reinforcemental. For, for the Change Movement, demographics is a matter of major importance, for example, the country's national security. In particular, the Change Movement with Article 1 of the Amendment proposes the establishment of a Special Secretariat for Demographic Policy. We need to get serious about demographics once. We propose setting up a Special Secretariat for Demographic Policy, with a view to specialising and implementing demographic policy through effective coordination of the services of the relevant ministries and cooperation with social and economic actors. The Special Secretariat shall also provide the necessary resources for implementing policies in the respective demographic policy. With the provisions of Article 2 of our amendment, an unpaid consultative nature, a National Committee on Demographic Policy, is set up with the main objective of drawing up a national plan for demographics, but, as I said before, the outcome of the special committee of Parliament is also being used. In this context, it monitors, analyses and evaluates demographic data, proposes actions and measures to achieve the objectives of this project, but also providing more general advice to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on the issues of demographic policy. We are missing, Minister, and we wonder why you do not take the step to recommend it. We expect you to tell the Greek Parliament why you do not recommend it. Article 3 of our amendment. It is proposed to change the level of the child's allowance and is set at EUR 200 a month, during the first three years of his birth, beyond the EUR 2 000 allowance. In this way, the sense of economic insecurity that potential parents feel and which has a negative impact on fertility will be addressed to a significant extent. Article 4 of our amendment provides for the irresponsible and incompatible of all family allowances. We're not making discrimination on allowances. All family allowances. The establishment of the irresponsible and inconsistent is necessary firstly for reasons of equality. There must be a similar treatment of all benefits, since the legislative provisions providing for payment of other aid - and I refer to the heating allowance, a social dividend - clearly stipulate that they are neither confiscated nor offset. It's a simple question. So why not foresee that they are not confiscated or set off? Questions, Minister, must be answered. Secondly, for reasons of treatment, as we have said in the committee, bureaucracy, suffering and injustice suffered by certain beneficiaries, who are confiscated and set aside for their allowances. Under Article 5 of the amendment, an advisory and family support centre may be set up and operate at each First Degree Local Government Organisation. These centres operate as structures, supplements to social services and associated OTAs, and are, of course, supervised by them. They recommend first-line services for family planning, the provision of free consultancy services to families facing family disarmament problems, the free psychosocial support of family members from specialised professionals and their referral, where necessary, to more specialised bodies, given the cooperation and interconnection of advisory and family support centres with all services, bodies and social protection structures at local level. With Article 6, on creative employment for children, we propose that the creative employment of children with the three hundred two structures of children's creative employment centres and the fifty ones of children's creative employment centres should be integrated into the social services of the municipalities, with their human resources and equipment as a whole. This has been reassigned by the Change Movement to the previous government, to my knowledge, Mr Fotou, and the government has denied it. Today we learn that it confirms and adopts the proposal of the Change Movement. It is also a good step. With Article 7, we are proposing to treat ingenuity. This is because in recent years there has been an increase in the problems of infertility, which is characterised as multifactorial. Science says it and has documented it. The economic cost of carrying out the parental plan of couples that will be carried out in medical reproduction technologies is quite high up to a ban. To tackle this, further financial support and compensation is proposed, in addition to what is currently covered by the EEAS. Otherwise, we do not contribute to anything and the words remain empty. With Article 8 of the amendment, we are proposing a clause on the preservation of the rights of the multiple families and the integration of the three families into the multitude. In the first paragraph of Article three families now belong to the polytexts, since the number of children who determine the polytext is four. This is an important measure in support of multilateral families, in the context of the policy to tackle the demographic problem. Thus, all luxuries are automatically granted to third parties. The second paragraph of Article ensures the uninterrupted integration of the tritecs into the polytecnets and the acquisition of the polytectic property. In addition, injustice against four children who have not acquired the polytext status has been corrected as a result of existing provisions and restrictions. In addition, it ensures a multi-tech property. It applies to both parents, regardless of whether they are in a dimension and if one of them is in custody of children, since both have parental care. In addition, multi-Technical status is granted, regardless of the number of marriages or cohabitation agreements within which children have been acquired. With the third paragraph, a guarantee clause is introduced for the continuation of benefits to them until now which means that they are fully and fully guaranteed that the tenants will continue to have all their rights to date. And, of course, we expressly introduce the unrealistic progressiveity of benefits in proportion to the number of children. With Article 9 of the amendment, adding to the draft law, because, in our view, the provisions submitted are fragmentary and incomplete, it is proposed to grant the allowance to Greek parents who have a child outside Greece, provided that they are there for the execution of a public service, posted or transferred to services of the external or international organisations, but also to Greeks who are also temporarily abroad for either purpose of studying, for either professional or permanent reasons, but with the additional condition that they will return to the country within a given, reasonable period of time. I would like to point out, Minister, something that the Scientific Service of the Parliament has also pointed out. You need to see it, and we wonder why you don't see it. Just give us a reason why. It shall not be understood to exclude these categories from the grant of the allowance in question. In addition, the Change Movement, following the scientifically substantiated proposal of the Intergroup Committee, as I mentioned, proposes an addition to Article 1 for a half of the birth allowance, in the event of having a second child within 30 months of the birth of the first child, for which the family has already been subsidised. Article 2 of the bill provides that the birth allowance is to be paid in two instalments. We have reiterated to the committees that the present provisions do not make it clear either when or how long. The Undersecretary at the first meeting of the committee said the Ministry's leadership was preparing a KYA, where the first instalment would be paid upon approval of the allowance, at the last working day of next month and the second half after birth. It's late, it's a long time, it's a lot of expenses. Payment must be immediate at the latest, the second instalment within the first quarter. At the latest. There's a big problem. We believe that the second dose should therefore be given by the end of the quarter at the latest. We also propose to amend the equivalence scale laid down in Article 4 of the bill and dependent children to have a weighting of 1/2. The first dependent child in single - parent families has a weighting of one. We are also calling for an increase in the level of family income, Article 5 of the bill, which refers to a certain amount. 5,000 euros. In Article 7 of the bill, we propose that the categories of beneficiaries be filled in with those granted refugee status or subsidiary protection status to third-country nationals who have been granted humanitarian residence status. There's a question. We have asked you, Minister, and in the debate on the committees. We have not received any response so far on the issue of refugees for the subsidiary status of citizens of third countries. In what sense are they exempted from the birth allowance while they are beneficiaries of the child’s and housing allowance? Minister, and on this matter we want an answer. Why are they deprived of this allowance while they are entitled to child and housing allowance? What's the sense of the Ministry? What does the government say and why does it deprive them? For citizens of third States who do not fall under the regulatory regime in cases (b), (c), (d), (g) or (i), we propose that five years’ stay be required in the country before the application for a birth allowance is submitted. In relation to the 12 years of legal and permanent residence of citizens of third countries in Greece, having heard Mrs Michaelidou's position during the meetings of the committee, I honestly felt that she wanted and could not admit that this was an arbitrary choice. Mrs. Michaelidou told us that this time limit is linked to the study cycle at the Greek school. He also told us that the Headship of the Ministry considers the 12th year as a criterion for obtaining a substantial relationship of experiential and living ties with our country. He didn't tell us where he saw it. In what EU international literature or case-law or case-law, in which circumstances or in Greek scientific studies is based on such a choice made today by the government and adopted by the majority, it seems. We invite you to reconsider your views very well. The Commission's objections were important, they were substantial, they were substantiated, they were justified. You must see them. The agencies didn't accidentally come to the committees. They came to give messages that the government has to take into account. In relation to Article 10 of the bill, which provides for the incompatibility of the EUR 2000 allowance, we agree. Moreover, it has been proposed by the Change Movement since 2018. However, we are proposing that the wording of Article 10 of the bill also apply to the child's allowance - it is referred to as Article 15 of the bill - thus extending paragraph 12 of Article 214 of Law 4512. We therefore call on you, Minister, to extend this scheme to all family allowances. If you do not extend it, please explain to the House why you do not extend it, so that the Greek people know what the reason you do not do so will be. In conclusion, I should like to say that the Change Movement has tabled two more amendments, ladies and gentlemen, which I must support. Amendment No 143, and Amendment No 8, proposes to recover the self-sufficiency of social support and training centres for people with disabilities, the CEECs, which are currently most closed. They are "carves" in modern buildings, with modern equipment, which are constantly declining and continuously depreciated. The aim is to improve their functioning, to increase citizens' services and to make better use of existing structures by joining the social welfare centres of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The second amendment relates more to those lawyers who are fighting lawyers. I wonder why the New Democracy colleagues of the militant law have not seen it. It's about the judiciary. We are calling for the amendment that came at night and at the last moment, which called for a judicial mark to be dropped in the recognizing actions of the multi-judgmental court. They did not, however, bring an amendment which abolishes the Code of Civil Procedure in the specific article that provides for two types of actions, because the code provides for actions of voter and identities. When it obliges us in recognizing lawsuits, we must say that they are voters. So why does it not repeal the specific provision of the Code of Civil Procedure, so that the professors who write books know that there is only one lawsuit, the voter, because there is no recognition because of the amendment, too. So you will see that it's a "work of the leg", which they say in my village, when you do it is the contradiction of the process. I call on the majority lawyers to take this into account. He can't stand this judicial practice. They bring the courts, the lawyers boast, the associations of judges and prosecutors. It is a trick to those who will support such an amendment. We call for this amendment to be accepted by all sides. It is a disgrace to society and what we are voting on. We cannot vote for contradictory things. I speak as a legal, simple lawyer on the sidewalk, but a fighter. I ask all New Democracy colleagues to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u12	That is what the European Court of Justice says.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u13	And I'm ending up. Mr President, because you are also a supreme judge and we have tried on several occasions, say your opinion too. I'm interested in you telling her. Can we have two types of pipeline when the Minister abolishes the recognition in its essence? Let's just say the I.D.'s removed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u14	It can't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u15	How can this thing be done? Some might argue, ladies and gentlemen, that some of the proposals which I have said as an amendment have budgetary costs. It is acceptable to say that some have budgetary costs. But there are others that have no cost at all. So those who have no cost are asking you to adopt them. If you do not adopt them, tell us seriously why you do not adopt them. He wants people to know why he has received the message and knows what the proposals of the Change Movement and the proposals of the Anti-Population parties are. Give a reasoned answer what is going on. Let us do, Minister, a coordinated principle today, otherwise we will certainly have a cost. And that will be called national cost. I said that the demographic population has the same weight and importance as the national issue, with the national defence. It's so important. So let's see it from today! Step up bold beyond any party prejudice. The responsibility of all of us, but above all of the individual government, is to keep this issue at the top of the political agenda, with the immediate adoption of drastic solutions to halt birthhood and to effectively address the demographic problem, in accordance with the prevailing circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u16	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and three educational sessions from the 3rd High School of Zografi. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I call on the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin with a reference to Article 19, on the basis of the mobilisation which is being made by workers in the OPEKA. OPEKA workers are mobilising against this article, where it enables the Minister to decide - as provided for in the article - on their movement in due course, according to the Minister. Of course, this particular article invoked is the enormous shortages in staff. We say that this article and the Minister, the Ministry, will have to be removed immediately by the government to recruit staff. Here is the huge issue - not only on the occasion of the OPEKA - of subscribing the wider and closer public sector, of services. As far as the draft law is concerned, Mr President, I would like to say that no matter how much help it offers, it cannot change the negative framework that they have shaped - especially in the years of the capitalist crisis - the anti-galactic laws that curtail wages, increase the taxation and taxation of the people, reduce tax-freeness, provide and privatise social services in health, welfare, cut social costs, etc. However, even this predatory provision for women and couples comes from their own work, from the cuts in a number of benefits and rights, from the great tax burden on them, in order to achieve the bloody surpluses, which are certainly celebrated by the governments and from which they are returning crumbs, such as this allowance, which is presented on the basis of the explanatory statement, as a measure in the context of demographic policy. However, if something emerged in the debate and in the committee, in particular in the hearing of bodies, is that whatever measures by the various governments over time, which concern disposable allowances for new couples, multitude families and others, they cannot meet either elementarily the increasing and growing needs of a family. At the same time, by granting the specific allowance presented to parents, there is a deeper target, since we are now in a different phase of the capitalist economy. It aims, therefore, to build expectations for the workers, the populaces that are narrowing under the burden of anti-grassroots measures, how can they benefit from capitalist development, to reconcile the working family, particularly the new couple, the new mother with one life with opportunities - as you say - with equal opportunities - to resign from the requirement of modern rights at work, working hours, social security, the protection of motherhood, to waive the claim of modern public and free services and health services, welfare, education, support for the family, because the so-called 'equal opportunities' which mean flexible work, with flexible rights, breaks and irregular hours, that is to say on Sunday hours and life for the majority of young people. These objectives essentially serve, as was demonstrated by the committee's meetings, the anti-grass competition, allegedly in support of the family, between the New Democracy and SYRIZA, is a convenient controversy on the measures that you have taken on the basis of the European Union's guidelines for opportunityal allowances, which are a minimum indicator of the deforestation of popular discontent and benefits granted on the basis of unacceptable poverty limits. That is why the controversy between you focused on who gave more benefits, which government has extended or reduced the beneficiaries, their level, from which budget it has cut and in which area it has given more. In other words, we are talking about measures that consolidate the current barbarism experienced by new couples, new mothers, and which do not overthrow it. In practice - and this debate - this confrontation is accompanied by a lot of hypocrisy in order to hide the long-term responsibilities of all governments, New Democracy, SYRIZA, KINAL, for the obstacles encountered by the young woman, the new couple in the creation of a family as a result of the anti-grassroots laws and privileges of business colossians. Really, how will working women face these obstacles, which 34% of insured women work with part-time employment and an average wage of EUR 24? How will a couple cope with the cost of prenatal testing, which exceeds EUR 1,500, and which involves the cost of certain laboratory tests, without putting these visits to the doctor or other examinations? At the same time, obstetrical gynaecological clinics in the respective hospitals are in a tragic situation, due to huge staff and equipment shortages, while allowing the private business sector to treat tens of millions of people a year from these activities. Really, what's the so-called opportunity for a girl to create a family, when with the anti-Fraudal arsenal you've ever set up, magnanimity fades away? Extortion of newly recruited girls reaches the well-known ova cold maintenance subsidy programme to put motherhood in the fridge, because they want to squeeze out workers, especially women, without a holiday in their working life and without any other personal family obligations. In fact, the Government of New Democracy does not hesitate to put on the table the proposal to establish the option for mothers themselves to choose the time they will receive their childbirth leave. Thus, next to the tires you may open the way to cut off and sewage the employer in its measures and maternity leave. And it is challenging to discuss demographic indicators and, at the same time, motherhood to become synonymous with unemployment, redundancy, circumvention of any protection measures, maternity permits, allowances and others, both from private sector enterprises and from the public sector. It is hypocrisy to come today, for example, when SYRIZA has rejected, as a government, the amendment tabled by the Group of the Communist Party of Greece last March 2019, abolishing the requirement to complete the two-day insurance period for the granting of maternity leave by the ECA and extending the special maternity protection granted by the OAED, which is currently excluded for the highest reason, and to table an amendment that deals with the exclusion from the maternity leave of private mothers of certain time-limits from the public, regions, municipalities, etc. No references, of course, to the constant demands of workers for the permanentization of women's contracted women. Because, not only does it consider the generalisation of flexible labour relations, in the private but also in the public sector, but in the amendment it invokes Article 142 of Law 3655/2008, which, by Ministerial decision, regulated the conditions, procedure, the modalities for granting special maternity leave. But what is the basic condition? In the last two years, on the basis of the fourth paragraph of Article 39 of Law 1846/51, an unacceptable paragraph which, of course, has not been abolished until now. But what about women who, after a long period of unemployment, are recruited as a fixed-term private law in the public sector, who, from the first to the ninth month of the contract, are pregnant? Under the legislation that the New Democracy is implementing today, but also under the SYRIZA's amendment, they are excluded from maternity leave because they have not completed the two days of insurance in the last two years, while at the same time your hypocritical sensitivity is exhausted to the point where the contract ends, because there are many cases of young women with such contracts, who are made redundant due to the end of a contract before birth. They are therefore excluded in the most barbaric way from maternity leave. In committee, the positions of both the rapporteur of the New Democracy, as well as of the SYRIZA rapporteur, were revealing. The first rapporteur, referring to the New Democracy bill to the committee, as from this step a moment ago, described it as a social bill, with implications for both social and national as well as insurance within the framework of the New Democracy's policy, which is purely development policy, while SYRIZA's rapporteur argued that the benefits and benefits have a development dimension, that is, every euro spent on them returns to the economy multiplied. Full match to dealing with complex social issues, all concerning the conditions of life and work of the majority working in the labour market, not on the basis of the modern social needs of the family, but on the basis of the benefit to the capitalist economy. With this criterion you cost a few minimum benefits, such as the birth allowance, to manage the consequences of your anti-popular policy, which reproduces general insecurity, unemployment and underemployment, poverty. Of course, the Government of New Democracy is taking a step further, introducing new reactive racist criteria and divisions, cutting criteria for granting children's benefits, housing, social solidarity benefits, to the logic of time-consuming cuts applied by all governments. In particular, there is talk of Articles 7, 15, 17 and 29. Thus, by providing for the 12-year stay of third-country citizens in Article 7, for example, they are excluded from the birth allowance and, respectively, Article 15 is excluded from the child's allowance, as is Article 17, on the housing allowance. We have also called on the committee, but we are also calling for this Step to remove both Article 7 and the provisions of Articles 15 and 17. Similarly, according to the criterion of actual schooling introduced in Article 15, which relates to specific categories of families from poorly populace, Roma, people with disabilities, etc., we consider that this problem is not tackled by administrative measures and, indeed, by economic measures. So, for example, Roma families need full support in order to be able to integrate themselves into society, with measures to strengthen the incentive of real schooling and not penalise them. Accordingly, there is a need for support and the families of children with disabilities who do not attend compulsory education and live in their homes, for which, incidentally, we do not know their exact number. Special schools are required to study all categories of students with disabilities, creative employment centres, support for families financially and morally. In addition, in Article 29, in addition to the rename of the CRL, the social solidarity allowance, to a minimum guaranteed income, is added the criterion for granting it, that of actual education. So, for families living in impoverishment - as they take the minimum guaranteed income - that you have led them to and driven them over time with your policies on extreme poverty, which has the effect of kicking the children out of school, will this be reversed by the granting of the minimum guaranteed income? However, if these children go to school in order not to cut the minimum guaranteed income, what will essential change in the substance of the matter, when these children experience poverty, poverty and the lack of minimum benefits, for the needs of their psychosocial development? Under the regulation, these family needs remain individual responsibility for them and, indeed, for the penalty for cutting this minimum financial provision. If anything is confirmed, it is that all the measures and political practices of all governments are crushing the social life of the woman and confronting her right to work, with the social need to protect motherhood, the family. They confuse family relations and family planning. Thus, on the demographic issue, for example, the creation and functioning of a special secretariat on demographic policy or the National Committee on Demographic Policy, referred to in an article in the KINAL amendment, does not mean that the causes of them are radically addressed and reproduced, which is also confirmed by other relevant special secretariats and national committees set up in the context of parliamentary procedures on complex social issues. Also, in no case can the function of a secretariat, a committee, etc., be confronted with the general insecurity of new couples, since they remain economic, social and cultural factors which hinder the choice of a couple to create a family. Do the secretariats or the national committees need, for example, to record that the majority of young people experience the insecurity of flexible working relationships, with one-day contracts, fifteen days, seasonal work, irregular working hours or that part-time workers are entitled to half the maternity leave allowance? In other words, does the Ministry of Labour not know that pregnant workers are being made redundant or are being circumvented even the elementary measures for the protection of maternity, such as permits, allowances, reduced working hours for young mothers and many more? Is the answer, for example, to the concerns of the new couple with infertility problems, is the introduction, as is stated in the relevant amendment, of a general financial aid? Or is it exclusively public and free health, without any business activity, including assisted reproduction services, prenatal control, pregnancy monitoring, childbirth and going by saying? Therefore, the KINAL amendment cannot be'silloam' for the enormous responsibilities which it has over time for the situation of working people's families. Here we should recall that in 2012, with a government of New Democracy - PASOK - DIMAR, and in the name of saving resources, the childbirth allowance was limited only to women who are giving birth at home, turning us decades back with that logic, while of course it was abolished for all the rest. So modern and progressive, based on the enormous potential in science, technology is equal participation of all women and men at work, on the basis of the subject of qualifications, with stable working and working hours, with fewer hours of work and wage increases, with measures to protect maternity, the women's organisation at work, with maternity leave for all workers, regardless of employment. For all that must be a social right, through this bill, we have the reproduction of an obsolete, reactionary view of individual family responsibility, which is the common denominator of the positions of all urban parties. Scientificly modern, Mr President, is to have a universal, public and free early diagnosis and intervention at the time of the child's arrest and birth. Furthermore, it is really necessary to draw up a single scientific programme from the early stages of pre-school age and throughout the school years, which will set the general objectives and objectives and, at the same time, within this framework will make the necessary specialisation in the case of a child. Step by step, this development and its development will be monitored. It will be supported by any means, inspiring or inanimate. It will be framed by every scientific expertise, every trained scientist and will be at the disposal of every tool, which is appropriate, so that all the educational process will serve exactly what we say, "the future of the child", which is no more than its essential preparation and integration into society. On the basis of the above, Mr President, we are voting'representations' in the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, since they have previously participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation, twenty students and students and an educational meeting from the 2nd Artemis Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason is the Special Buyer from the Greek Solution Mrs Maria Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I say that I am pleased that, even so, the Government is strengthening the efforts of Greeks and Greeks for childbirth? I'm not going to tell the public, it's in the right direction. Because it's just a one-off aid given again. But whether it is in the direction of resolving the demographics of the Greek nation, that is another matter. With this, I am ending my positive remarks, Mr President. I'm explaining. First of all, I shall stand in paragraph 1 of Article 1. The introduction of the EUR 2,000 allowance existed between 2006 and 2012, L.3454/2006, when the governance of PASOK and New Democracy cut it, due to memoranda. So it's nothing new. Mr. Brutsis reinstates an allowance, the child's birth allowance, which he abolished unnecessarily in 2013. In other words, the same ones who cut it off themselves bring it back again. Even so, the measure must have retroactive effect, from the months of the government's election campaign, because many, on the sole criterion, voted against the government. Otherwise, you might not have been voted on. I continue with the following question, which is directly related to Article 3. What about the kids who were born in December? Are we going to call them the unfortunate children? The mothers who gave birth in 2019, and while Mr. Mitsotakis made such election statements, do they not have the same rights as those that were born from 1-1-2020, as do those who were prematurely born? Therefore, the date of entry into force of the benefit is problematic, as is the way in which this law as a whole is enacted. In addition, I ask: why should income criteria be set for its performance? As we can see below, it is unfair to punish the childbirth of the havings, which contributes to the ingenuity of Greece. We want Greeks and all Greeks must receive privileges, less or more rich. If the government intends to do something, it will do it properly, because the world has voted for you. In addition, if you do not want this allowance to be just a move of impression, a political firework, it should be combined with other measures, as feedback, proper education, safety and the security of the child are the questions that employ every serious person throughout the planet when he thinks as a candidate parent. For example, how will the Greeks be encouraged to have children to deal with our major demographic issue adequately, seeing the lack of management of a large state family? We recognize, then, that the problem is not only focused on the child’s birth, but on his magnificence and evolution. Most Greek families, impoverished because of a crisis, due to low wages, find it difficult to meet their obligations. What does the state do about it? With this draft law, therefore, it continues and creates additional conditions for the prospect of altering anthropogeography in Greece. They are European citizens, on the pretext of our Union, but also citizens of third countries who, especially after the invasion of illegal enclaves in Greece in recent years, have, of course, been legally and permanently in Greece. Of course, it is a common secret that the condition of the 12-year stay in our country, which you have included, can be offended by the European Court of Justice if the directed pressure is exerted. And you understand very well what I mean. How, then, do you ensure with this draft law the alarms of our national identity? Is this unnecessary, given that the individual provisions of this law have been studied, will the beneficiaries of this provision ultimately be those who have nothing to do with the Greek Nation, the Greek ideal, but also with the effort to make effective and sustainable development and prospects in general? Ladies and gentlemen, in Article 2 we are told that the allowance is paid in two instalments. Why not just? Maternity and doctors are not paid in instalments. Why, at the beginning of the creation of a family, where the economic needs are great, the allowance is attributed to the dropper? In addition, when will the beneficiaries be paid after the application is submitted? You do not specify that either in Article 11. The birth allowance, provided it is provided for the enhancement of the births of the Greeks and for the treatment of the Greek genitality and in accordance with the statements of the Deputy Minister, is of a demographic nature and not of an intrinsic nature, should be given only to Greek citizens, in order to agree with the trueness of the blood and to give Greek citizenship. To avoid talking about human rights and equal treatment, we say this: As the Court of Justice of the European Union has already held in the Alimanovic case against the Federal Republic of Germany, the exception from the State of citizens of another Member State from receiving certain social benefits is not contrary to the principle of equal treatment. However, for non-Europeans, I would say. However, when the beneficiaries are not exclusively Greeks, as is apparent from the categories of beneficiaries and from Article 8, but those who live in Greece, when the criterion is the child's birth in our country and not its nationality and origin, how do we combat Greek birth? What do you care? Rescuing the nation or simply numerical growth of residents in the country? For us, in Greek Solution, it is a major issue that the birth rate, which, as a result of the economic crisis, has increased, since Greeks who live in Greece cannot provide their children, even the necessary ones. The forced immigration, which still exists today, results in hundreds of thousands of Greeks leaving abroad and seek first and foremost the survival, individual decent living and, second and foremost, family restoration over time. There are voices that say the absolute paradox, that the demographic situation in Greece will be solved by foreigners. I knew that only the Greeks in the genus helped deal with the demographic problem in our country. I leave their thoughts and intentions in the crisis of common sense and history. This draft law, therefore, regulates matters of child birth benefit. From the outset, we distinguish the spirit of the world legislator, since it is simply mentioned as a mother who legally resides in Greece. As far as I know, ladies and gentlemen, only Greek women are legally staying in Greece. Then, in another article, the qualities come in. Of course, no mention is made of the genus of the Greeks. It is necessary, therefore, to incorporate the thousands of foreigners, who are or come to Greece, who are further facilitated by the provision of the recently adopted draft law of the Ministry of Education, with whom either citizenship or religion will no longer be recorded. The plan is well organized and each Ahmet and every Mustafa will be in line for payment. And the Greeks, with their implied incomes, will take nothing. Article 7 states that the allowance is granted only to any children born in Greece. In other words, if, because of some exceptional circumstances, the child occurs and is born in another country or the pregnant woman moves abroad for professional reasons, the new Greek parents, who are Greek taxpayers, who are proven to be permanent and legally resident in Greece and brought to the world a Greek bird, are not entitled to the 2,000 euro allowance. In Article 5, Minister, place all those with incomes of up to EUR 40,000 as beneficiaries of the allowance. And you're talking about implied income. In other words, will someone be able to lose the benefit because of the state's tax policy, which in any way seeks to tax citizens, through submissives rather than real income? It gets even more interesting if we see that the EUR 40,000 limit, which someone would think would be high, if not classic, you put it before taxes. In the current circumstances, in other words, anyone who is supposed to be at EUR 40,001, but who has only EUR 10 000, EUR 15 000 real income, is excluded from the allowance. And so for the real Greeks and Greek women, who have real estate in Greece by parents, with their own money, but also by the tax indicators, it is absolutely unlikely to happen. So basically, once again Greek householders are second-speed. We do not thus guarantee the right development of children, since we punish those who have to give their children and only give them who have no to raise them. The demographic problem, I remind you, is that we want to solve. All Greeks must be beneficiaries. I continue with Article 6(2). With the rights now acquired by the concluded cohabitation agreement, the institution of the marriage will soon be abolished. With this arrangement, the birth allowance will also be granted to those who have entered into a cohabitation agreement. As regards children born, for example, in relationships with a cohabitation agreement, if the relationship does not thrive and people do not go to marriage, we will have a huge increase in children's off-marriage cases, especially if we notice the growing trend that the cohabitation agreement in Greece has presented since its introduction to date. The auditing of the income criterion, it would be advisable to run in depth for three years. In our view, the equivalent family income of the previous year should not be taken into account, because it can lead to injustices. A good method would be to take into account the less equivalent family income of the last five years. Then I go into the categories of beneficiaries. Apart from the Greeks, who should be the only beneficiaries, they include citizens of Member States of the European Union and citizens belonging to a European economic area and citizens living 12 years in the country. If there is such an amount available, which includes all these categories, why didn't you think, instead of subsidising foreigners born in our country, of giving the retroactive allowance, as of July 2019? So there is a financial area that you manage according to your will. You left Greek parents with tax home in Greece who, due to circumstances, do not have a birth in Greece. Article 10 on a tax exemption for incompatibility: The greatest fraud, which has been applied for many years in our country, is the proof of living, which raises the total real family income, resulting in thousands of families being deprived of the benefits of children and not only. On the other hand, workers - mostly foreigners - receive many of the benefits because they have a zero tax claim against Greeks who are normally taxed. I want to add something very important, gentlemen of the government. The irresponsibility should be inconsistent with respect to persons, state and individuals, and of course with regard to banks, which are private, but behave as a state in a state. Article 14 talks about adding VAT and AMKA to the birth permit. What is the recital in the statement to the newborn, when we create Greeks, but which do not actually have the national identities of the Greeks? To create tomorrow's minorities? As regards Part Two - Other Provisions, in particular Article 15 ‘Amendment to Article 214 of Law 4512/2018’, I would like to remind you, as an opposition, that the current government was calling for the great injustice suffered by third parties by reducing the income criteria and promised that it would correct this mistake. We are talking about people who received the allowance and lost it, because they were found to receive a few more euros than the limit. And we're talking about income before taxes. In fact, this is not the real income available, but the accounting income, which after the deduction of taxes is far less and completely lost. Reinstatement of the income criterion to 45,000 was a personal commitment by Mr. Mitsotakis to the debate on demographics in March 2019, and the excerpt on the page of the New Democracy is posted. Article 18 applies to citizens of third countries and stateless persons the child benefit and the Report of the General Accounting Office of the State shows the absurdity of this case. You do not know how much the budget will be charged by this, in any case, incomprehensible, preferential treatment for foreigners. It extends to twelve years - from five currently in force - the limit of legal and permanent residence in Greece to specific categories of foreigners, potential beneficiaries of benefits. This could be understood as saving money or protecting itself in itself. But is it? We accept an invasion and the ethnic characteristics of Greece are systematically altered and with a plan. So leave the savings of money and get rid of the actual exit and the incentive to increase the beneficiaries, who are still within and outside the borders, within and outside the conditions of the allowances. Article 27 provides for the deletion of unsuccessful debts for very small amounts. Really, why delete late debts of a small amount of less than EUR 200? These debts by anyone can be paid. Is it also not unfair for the consistent citizens who pay? Delete this setting. In paragraph 2 of Article 29 for the minimum guaranteed income I see no substantial change beyond the name. Otherwise, it's like the Syriza government introduced it. Gentlemen of government, Greeks don't need money to have a child. They do it on their own. What it takes is help to raise it. Greece's demographic problem is not solved by this legislation. We call on the government to deal more seriously with this. Minister, there is a huge need to adopt policies to support motherhood, family and fertility, as Greece has been at a sharp downward rate of decline of its population since 2011, when a negative birth balance was recorded for the first time since the Occupation. Therefore, the government should draw up a serious aid programme for the Greek family and provide substantial incentives for childbirth. For this reason, we propose that all Greeks should be supported by the state, which will bear the cost of trying in new couple fertilising centres with childbirth difficulties, that children should receive the first child's allowance, that all Greeks have access to nursery facilities, that children should receive a child's allowance for mothers, that childbirth benefits should be strengthened, that rental and moving allowances for new couples should be introduced, that luxury allowances should be supported, that housing loans should be secured at low or zero rates. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, as a nation, after ten years of barbarism, we are devastated. If we really want to continue to exist and not become a minority, if we want to prosper at some point, we must now help each Greek and Greek, our new couples, the creation of a family, the parents themselves for the magnificence of their family, and above all, and in any case, we must protect the preservation of the rights of the Greeks for the dignity of their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u20	It is now called the Special Rapporteur by Mera25 Mr. Apatzides Maria.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, as a PART25, we are, in principle, critical of the spirit of the bill. The core of the bill is the 2,000 euro allowance for every child born in our country. This, in the expressions used in the bill, is a move that aspires to be one of the new foundations of the country's modern demographic policy, the structured development of which must be a constant priority of the state. It is expected to be an incentive for future parents and, at the same time, a significant aid in the first upbringing period of their child. We are, in principle, opposed to the logic of the bill, for two different reasons, a theoretical and practical one. Firstly, at the theoretical level, the spirit of the bill is one of what a left-wing view can be called 'biopolitical', i.e. political definition of life, focusing on the state's planning of births through incentives or compulsions. Biopolitics is about management and regulation techniques of life and the death of human populations by power. It means that politics has the potential to shape the life of the human species, according to its purposes, in order to consolidate and increase its power. Thus, the birth rate of the citizens of a nation of a state is included in the demographic issue as a state-of-the-art issue and the political power is called upon to regulate the extent to which citizens give birth or do not give birth by political and government means. Today we call them motives. At Mer25, we think it is not the State's job to force a woman directly or indirectly to childbirth. It is a state's job, however, if a woman has already felt the desire and made the decision to give birth, then to provide her with a good environment for childbirth, childbirth, development and blooming. For this reason, as a PART25, we are in favour of helping the state create a wider environment, which helps the development of the family, in line with the Constitution, as well as with the wider political culture. But we're against biopolitical measures in the narrow sense. In any case, we propose the political culture and the social body that it creates, above all, fears that their tension leads to the search for biological solutions. I'll explain more specifically what I mean. Usually, there are factors more important than the direct biopolitical logic of providing incentives. Often, they fall into the function of whether or not a woman decides to give birth to a variety of economic factors, from her income to the actual cost of childbirth. These real obstacles to implementing a woman’s will for childbearing or family, obviously need to concern us. This is the second reason why we are in principle opposed to the bill. This is that even practically, the predictions of the bill are in the wrong direction. No single gift of EUR 2 000 can solve the very real economic problems faced by future mothers. If anyone wanted to solve the financial obstacles that future or new mothers find before them, there are provisions that could make a real difference. I shall mention some indicative but important proposals. It takes the creation of state obstetrics to transfer the cost of birth from each family to the whole of society, methods of assisted fertilization must be subsidised by the insurance funds, there must be a gradual reduction in parental insurance contributions, in addition to the two children, which is essential and totally different from what the government has announced. State aid must be provided in order to eliminate, with the care of the state, the costs that the employer is currently paying for the birth of children by employees in the private sector. This leads today to unacceptable pressures on private sector employees, which have the effect of banning childbirth. It also needs a long-term policy on the welfare of children, including the introduction of universal, free care and quality pre-school education. This would help parents continue to work at the same time, to care for their children and also to provide free medical, ophthalmic and dental care for every child, from birth to eighteen years, as well as a full and free annual preventive medical examination, from birth until the age of 12. The application of such solutions would help women to give birth to and raise their children with confidence. It would indeed be a observance of both the Greek constitution and European political culture. I now look at these articles. Articles 1 to 12 are a first part relating to the birth allowance. In principle, we are critical. Of course, we will not vote against an allowance that might be some kind of help. We note, however, that it is wrongly targeted. Article 1 "By birth allowance" establishes a birth allowance of EUR 2,000 for each child born in Greece from 1-1-2020. We shall vote'residents' for the reasons I have just mentioned. Similarly, we will vote'residences' in Articles 2 to 6 and in Articles 8 and 11 on procedural matters relating to the grant of the allowance. I will only dwell on Article 2, 'on the basis of the equivalent family income', which provides that the birth allowance will be paid in two equal instalments. This creates a problem for parents, who will have to pay instantly and one-off for their maternity. It would have been more practical, the allowance would have been given at first, so that the motherhood and parents would not be found in despair. At the same time, Article 2 provides for the possibility to submit the relevant application either to the civil registry information system subsystem for the birth declaration or to the OPEKA system directly for the birth allowance, always via an electronic application. We welcome this automation, but this does not change our general reluctance. The article, in which we are most critical, is Article 7 ‘categories of beneficiaries’. Article 7 introduces a criterion of legal and permanent residence in the Greek territory of the beneficiaries of the birth allowance. For citizens of third States who do not fall under the regulatory regime in cases (b) to (d) of the proposed provision, a 12-year stay is required in the country before the application for the birth allowance is made. As a MERA25, we are many critics of this regulation, which essentially states a fearlessness, contrary to European political culture. Furthermore, Article 9 provides that the birth allowance is to be granted by the Social Solidarity Beneficiary - OPEKA - to which we are in agreement. Also, under Article 10, which provides that the birth allowance does not fall under any category of income, so that it is exempted from any tax, levy, levy or detention in favour of the public or third parties, and we are surely in agreement. Similarly, Article 12 provides for the inclusion of appropriations for the implementation of the birth allowance in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which has the same purpose: it grants the Social Solidarity Beneficiaries Agency. This is a right move, with which we agree. Article 13 creates a birth subsystem in the civil register. In this way, the birth process is simplified and automated. This is a necessary development, with which we agree. Similarly, Article 14 adds the number of the Tax Register and the Child’s Social Security Register to the information to be included in the birth permit, with a view to introducing to the public administration the new automated procedure for the issue of VAT and AMCA to citizens born in Greece and, in accordance with the applicable legislation, they are entitled to them. The new procedure will relieve public administration of bureaucracy, citizens of additional burdens and limit the risk of incorrect registrations in the respective registers. And with that, we certainly agree. So far, I have mentioned, on the one hand, our criticism in the first 14 articles and, on the other, certain specific articles, with which we agree that they do serve the citizen. I now come to our main criticism, which concerns some of the other provisions. Our main criticism lies in the fact that we consider that this allowance to be essentially fenades to cover its dreadful choices so that thousands of third-country citizens lose the three basic allowances: the child's allowance, the housing allowance and the former social solidarity income - CRL - which renames a minimum guaranteed income. It is precisely these cuts that are hidden in the 'other provisions'. This is done through two filters: firstly, the abolition of allowances, even if one of the children of the family repeats the order because of absence, secondly, the reduction of allowances, depending on the origin of the children, since the criterion of their parents' permanent and legal residence is not dealt with uniformly. These are choices, which are contrary to many international and European rules of law, but also to provisions of the Greek Constitution. Let us see in more detail: in Article 15, citizens of third countries who have been recognised as beneficiaries of subsidiary protection in compliance with international rules of increased standard law, as well as primary and secondary rules of European Union law, as these rules have been incorporated into Greek law. At the same time, differences in the duration of the criterion of residence to the citizens of third countries are preferable. It provides for the 12 years, up to the period of residence of these citizens of third countries. It should be noted here that there were five years before. In particular, for the purpose of granting the allowance, it is made as a precondition not only to register the child at school, but also to receive his actual student, in such a way that they are excluded from the grant of the allowance in the case of children who are forced to repeat the same order because of the large number of their absences from school. This provision aims to eliminate the phenomenon of the abstention of minors from their school duties and hence to strengthen the compulsory education system by introducing an incentive effect for parents to take care of them as beneficiaries of the allowance. We regard these wording as hypocritical. The Government is attempting to minimize the number of beneficiaries and hypocritically surrounds its choice with supposedly loving interest in school abstention, while at the same time making it responsible for losing the child's allowance. This is an article in which we are extremely critical. In Article 16, the Government appears - supposedly - to make it possible for beneficiaries to receive the allowance until the provision of Article 15 has been introduced. We regard this as hypocritical. In Article 17, we have a similar hypocrisy to Article 15. In addition, this is where the wicked wording is introduced to provide adequate care for every childless member of the household. This means that if even one of the family’s children repeats order, due to school absences, then the family is not entitled to the allowance. This is a provision that aims to cut many of the beneficiaries off, and that is why we are extremely critical. In Article 18 again, the government appears - supposedly - to do the favor of the already beneficiaries, in a hypocritical manner. Article 19 ‘Transition or secondment of employees from the Social Welfare Centres’ we consider it to include provisions of a clipboard nature, which are not sufficient. Article 20 contains provisions to support low-income families living in mountain and disadvantaged areas by paying annual income support. This is indeed a positive measure that we are in agreement with. On the contrary, Article 21 is very much of a concern to us. Under the pretext of speed, promptness and flexibility, the current legislative framework on the number and properties of members of the Board of Directors of the National Centre for Social Solidarity - ECA - is amended - and the present Board of Directors ceases. Unfortunately, on the basis of all the samples that the government has given up to now, we fear that this is another attempt to cover the positions of the board of directors from the governing party. Article 22 agrees with us, because the setting of a specific day for the provision of services by the Social Solidarity Fund - OPEKA - is indeed likely to resolve a number of problems that have so far been identified. Article 23 provides for the possibility for municipalities where no infant, child or nursing establishments are working to request funding if they have real estate in which such structures can be hosted. However, it is not clear whether and how to control the use of these funds by these municipalities. We are sceptical, and we think there should be a greater statement in this regard. With Article 24, we do not disagree. We believe that what it reveals is the uncertainty of both the previous and the current government. We agree with Article 25. Article 26 states that the debtors covered by this arrangement are to be granted a discount on all kinds of indiscriminate increases of status, employer and size of an undertaking. We are not opposed to this regulation in particular, but we are critical of the overall context, as I have already said. With Article 27 on deletion of unsuccessful debts for very small amounts, we agree. We also agree with Article 28 on e-commerce of insured persons, because the possibility of e-government transactions at level 4 is introduced in the context of the digital transformation of the EBRD. The citizens are thus allowed to complete the relevant electronically without a visit to the branch of the ECA. Finally, we are very critical of Article 29 for the minimum guaranteed income. This provides that the grant of the allowance is conditional, not only on the registration of the child at school, but also on his actual attendance. However, they are excluded from the grant of the household allowance, which their minors are obliged to repeat the same order because of the large number of absences from school. This provision is supposed to eliminate the phenomenon of the abstention of minors from their school duties and thus strengthen the compulsory education system. In fact, however, beneficiaries are being cut off in a way that shows unjustified fearfulness and punishment. That's what we disagree with. I conclude here the detailed position of Mera25, summarizing that in the Mera25 our priority is to formulate the best possible environment, so that a woman can bring her child to the world. We are vigilant about the messages that sends a once-incentive adjustment to dying in a violent political way in a certain direction. Most of all, however, we are critical of the combination of the fearfulness and hypocrisy of the government, which, as we have tried to show, is contrary to European political culture. We are voting on the principle of 'the present'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-three people from the CAP of the Municipality of Holargos - Papagos. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, and then the Deputy Minister, Mr Domna - Maria Michaelidou, asked for the floor. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, thank you very much. I would like to begin by saying that on such a big issue as demographics, you are coming with an aspirin to treat the gangerina. That's not even what the medical albanes do. And so I say, with very simple words, and I am ashamed, because such a subject should have been the subject of broader reflection, because in the last few decades many people have been writing about it, many refer to it in demographics. The biggest of us - I see at least the older of me upstairs, although I see young ladies in the soul - are sure of one thing, then many children, three, four. Today, women, because of their career, are hardly giving birth to a child or giving birth to a child at all. So we had to be all the Presidents of the parties here and talk seriously about this issue, because it is a major national issue, it is not just a question of subsidisation. It is a matter of a serious policy. It is not an issue on which everyone could be bailed in here or confronted. But I wonder if we really want Greece to exist in 2040, in 2050, in 2060 - not only "Greeks", but generally, if we want Greece to exist - because there is this very simple fact: you know, ladies and gentlemen, that if there are no Greeks, there is no Greece. Unfortunately for the "false - Left" he has not understood this, but if there are no Greeks blowing, putting and body, there can be no Greece. There may be something else, but not Greece. I am one of those who have said thousands of times that if we want to be Greece, we really need to sit together and get serious and talk seriously about motives, really motives. I start this way, because for me, today is very important for the course of Greece, because today, 28 February 2008, Christoulos slept. If there was a Christodoulus, much would not happen than what is happening today in our society. He was then the first to give benefits and incentives to children, the first to start it, as a church. Unfortunately, Greece was asleep and lost a shepherd. We have today a Archbishop, who is in general absent - not to say, in whole - and partly. I say it because the church has always been a charity in society either by motive or by the word of God or by its conduct. I wonder in the Change Movement - I can't understand how it's done, every time there's one here, now there's no one, one, two, one...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u24	They have committees, Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u25	And we have committees, Mr. Comrade. These are the fairy tales spoken by MPs many times in the past. I've been here for five and a half years, Mr. Lappa, believe me. Some people used to say they had committees. We know what that's like, not everyone in the committees. And we have committees, here we are, at least two, three, like you - to your honor - you are three, four every time here and you have committees.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u26	I say it because I saw them upstairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u27	All Commissioners have been in PASOK! But we're actually going. Mr PASOK said - I was listening to him - that this allowance must be granted - it says - only to those who have come in the last ten years, but also to illegal immigrants and refugees! You know, there in PASOK they've lost their identity. What Andreas Papandreou said - which, if he hears them from up there, throws cups and throws stones - was defined by the word "national", "national independence". So, how come you come and do what I say, do you separate the state from the nation, when your leader, who made you a MP, was talking about nation and national independence? It is the shame - I would say - of PASOK today, one half is going from there, the other half is flirting with Mr Tsipras, he wants the 'good PASOK'. The 'bad PASOK' I don't know who wants it. You all want PASOK. Others want 'good', others are 'bad', but you all get them, collect them wherever you want, collect them. I don't understand why all this is happening. Now we are going to prove why I think this bill, Mr Ministers, is a bill of political blackmail. It's a bill of political blackmail, as you can hear. You ask us, not to motivate people to be born Greeks, but to be born in Greece in general. No Greeks, however, in general. They may also be Somal and Ethiopians and Syrians and Afghans and Pakistanans, generally born. You're giving the right to a man who's been here for twelve years to get the allowance. I cannot understand your poaching in the New Democracy. I do not understand it. Why do you have to save and well, be the tail of the left, the 'fake left'? I don't understand why you must be fans of the suicide of the Greeks, fighting Nativism, so? What for? I wonder, don't you have families? Don't you have children? You want to force us to say 'yes' and we want to say 'no' about what you are doing, because it is political blackmail. For you say, if you say 'no', please refuse Greeks to receive this poor allowance. Because you are not worth making an economic policy, you are making an allowance policy. That's the worst. You work with the benefits and you and all of you. You are not making a serious economic policy so that we can make that self-evident. The Greek, if he's busy, if he has money, doesn't need the allowance. There is no need for charity, as if he is the poor man, who goes and give him 10 euros or 5 euros to survive. Give him a job! Can you? I'm afraid you can't. For me - I shall say this directly - the proof of what I am saying, that we are basically accepting a political blackmail and a political bullying, is what I got from HR. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the Archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Beneficiaries of social dividend 2017: Citizens of a hundred and seventy two different citizenships. One hundred and seventy citizenships! Ninety-seven thousand beneficiaries from Albania, Bulgaria, Romania, a thousand five hundred from Germany, the Netherlands, Britain and France. I don't want them, guys, I don't want them! I don't want to give these people money! The Germans have money. Why would I give my money to the German or Dutch? I don't get it. Why would I give the Italian guy money? Why? I'm not just talking about racial, to God, am I? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. But for a country like Germany, which has money, gives pensions, gives money, pay the German, who lives in Greece and give him an allowance? One hundred and seventy two different citizenships! So instead of saying "in a citizenship, in a nation, I will give the allowance for the Greeks to give birth", you give a hundred and seventy-two different citizenships of money. I don't get it. I imagine that when you have a thousand euros in your pocket, Mr. Ministers of the New Democracy and people around need it, your neighbors and the others next door, you share it with everyone. Isn't that how you're doing? No, you're giving your children. So, as legislators, you come and say that the children of the Greeks, our children, our grandparents, our grandchildren will get the same they get and others who came here yesterday, ten years ago. My grandfather was taxed, fought in Pindo, and had two bullets here in the chest, and was saved from a miracle with half a lung in 1940. And the one who was taxed and my father and I will take the same thing as the Afghan, Pakistani. That's not called segregation, iso-state, iso-righteous. I don't know what you're saying, but at least it's racist against the Greeks. It's racism! I cannot have the same rights when my obligations are more than Afghan or Pakistani or Italian or German. Understand that, yes, democracy defines specific things, but you have forgotten democracy, according to how you go. That's weird. So we weren't voted by Greek citizens? Aren't these Greeks taxed? Ten years openly, without protests, sometimes extremisms, went out on the streets, starved, bankrupt, devastated families. Now what are you telling them? "What you get will also take the other one who came yesterday ten years ago." It's not right, it's not fair. Don't you understand that, gentlemen of the New Democracy? It's unfair, and it's proud. Do you want us to make a serious demographic policy? Let me tell you three measures, not much: income tax exemption. You don't have to be lighters. I've said it a thousand times. Nor can you copy, nor can you copy. What did the 'bad' Orban, the 'extreme' Orban and managed to increase births in his country? Exemption from tax on life insurance for those mothers who have four children and above, extended the repayment period of loans, which families have at least two children, interest-free loan for those under the age of 40 are getting married, a second child, remission of 1/3 of debt, third child, total debt relief, free artificial fertilization. This was done by the 'bad' Hungary, for the ideology, ideology of some. You may be right or wrong, it doesn't matter. But he did and succeeded in raising Hungarian citizens and giving birth to Hungarians. Is that so hard? Copy the others, you don't have to do anything. You're not experts. For other things, you're experts. I'll tell you in a minute. Make the arsonists where you need to make the firemen. Instead of making firefighters, you make arsonists. I am referring to the history of PAOK and Olympiacos. I'll tell you right here without any fans' mood. But in the sense that you are going to divide a people with the nonsense of a minister of yours. On the bill, I won't say much, but I think you're acting insanely. You're a government insane. I'm sorry to say that, but I'm saying it very elegantly. You go to the institutions and ask the European Union not to include the costs of immigration in the deficit. Don't count, though they do! Uh, how will they be calculated? What arithmetic accounting, what self-regulatory accounting is that? After spending, how will they be taken into account? Do you understand what you're doing? Have you realised you're constantly making mistakes? Is that the country's rule? I don't want to use any other expressions, because they're young guys upstairs and I don't want to get into this process. But these young children - I imagine - in five years' time that they will end their school will be either in England or France, together with the other six hundred thousand Greeks, who you and the rest of you have sent them out, instead of doing something serious, to talk seriously together, universally, my child, about how we keep our children here. I have a 20-year-old child who's studying at the Democritus University, too. What can I tell her? I have business. He could get into business to work. The other kids their father doesn't have a job what's gonna happen? You're Greek-phobic. Fear all the Greek that makes me angry and I call it inviolable. You're racist against the Greeks! Do you behave as a New Democracy so Greek-phobic, why are you afraid of the false left? I don't know what you're afraid of. I don't get it because you're working with a terrific syndrome. Now let's go to what happened with Mr. Ausgeakis. Listen, gentlemen of the New Democracy, because you probably play with the dolls, you play with your buckets on the beach. You have a minister who, instead of making the fireman, Minister, went and made the arsonist. He came out yesterday and made a statement, which is so insulting and arsonistic. Honestly, it's a wonder if he understood what he said. He, two days before a case was dealt with - a court, I don't even care - appoints two of Piraeus. Coincidence! The decision comes out - right or wrong - and I am not looking at it at the same time, and it says that there is a bad decision like that, by its own two. Or, therefore, your Minister is incapable - I say this directly - because the committee is not right and decides wrong or the intervention he has made was wrong. Decide. The only solution for Mr. Augenakis is for the Prime Minister to take him out. It's over and over! The Prime Minister should take him out because he's causing problems. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I'm hitting the alarm even on my friends of SYRIZA and the rest of the parties. Do you know how Yugoslavia was dismantled, Minister? You remember why you were there. Yugoslavia was dismantled, ladies and gentlemen, by the conflict between the Croatia and Serbia groups, the Zagreb and Belgrade Red Star Force. That is how Yugoslavia began to break up. Don't smile, Mr. Chakalote, you're also a pedigree. Don't smile, I know what I'm saying. Already yesterday, it was posted banner, unfortunately, in Tuba, which talked about the division of Greece. Do you understand that? A fireman must be the government, not the arsonist. What are you going to do? Do you play with mass, with a mob? Can I tell you something? You're not ashamed to be with Marinakis all the time. What can I tell you now? I, who may be a fan of a team, don't hang out with Savvides, don't hang out with Melissanides, I don't hang out with Alfouzo. Everyone finds me doesn't matter - and Marinakis does. That's good for me, which means I don't have any dependencies. But do you have any ministers who eat and drink with Marinakis all day or ministers who eat and drink with Savvides? I never went to a Savvid's suite. And you know why? Not to give anyone a reason to say something. How do you do that? You're putting Ausgeus on me now, and what's he doing? It takes the fans out of their clothes, and the Olympics swear their paws and the paws of the Olympics, and they say we split up and split Greece in two. On Tempes, Greece! This scenario, which has been going on for decades, comes a New Democracy to premium it, by means of its arson - and the interventions of Mr Augias - and to immerse ourselves in division. Neither Olympiacos cares for me nor PAOK nor AEK nor Panathinaikos. I'm interested in Greece. I really want you to understand that a dirty game is being played right now. I don't know if Marinakis, Savvidis, Aygeakis or all, but there's a dirty and dangerous game for our country. If this story does not stop yesterday, I am afraid that soon, Mr Colleague, we will face serious problems in the north of the country. Watch out for that. I'm buzzing, and it's not a fanatical issue. It's national. I'm sorry, I don't know what to say anymore. It is the Committee's decision that in any case it is not possible to impose the most burdensome penalty for subtraction to historical groups, without any complete documentation. The Minister said that about the committee he appointed, that the committee decided wrong! The Minister, the chief! And I say: do you know where Xanthi is? To Thrace! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I need a few more minutes. Do you understand what you're doing? So much amateurism? I don't get it. This is where you have a problem in New Democracy. A Member of your Parliament from Grevena comes out of Grevena and swears Zurgaki, who spoke years ago and said he would leave the European Parliament. I say all this because you cannot play - I repeat - a strange game, provoking and arson interventions at the expense of Greece. Neither Marinakis is Olympiacos nor Savvidis is PAOK. They're businessmen, they're looking at their pockets, their money and their investments. Understood. These guys, these gentlemen, are businessmen. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Do you understand what you're going to do with The Hague, Minister? Do you understand that? I hear Mr. Mitsotakis wants to go to The Hague. I hear all the Members of the New Democracy saying to go to The Hague. You know we've been to The Hague and lost in 1976? Have you understood that in New Democracy? You have a Prime Minister and your Chief to say we're going to The Hague. Do you know how many times The Hague has declared itself against Greek positions, in other similar cases? On one occasion, Libya - Malta, it declared itself ‘in favour’ of Libya. I will tell you one of the cases - one of the cases - to understand what crime you are going to do, which has been declared against states that concern Greece: the Franco-British continental dispute in Channel in 1977, the 1982 Tunisian- Libyan continental shelve in 1983, the Guinea-Bissau conflict, 1992 Canada - French disagreement. All these decisions were against Greek positions. You go to The Hague, when you know that The Hague, if you don't claim certain things, will discuss Turkey's claims. We're going to talk about what? What if Kastelorizo is Greek? We're going to talk about what? What if we have EOZ? Should we discuss with the Turks what? You tell me. Will you raise issues of claim on our part, Imbro, Tenedo, which, under the Lausanne Treaty, is a legitimate right of the country? Withdrawal of Cypriot troops, will you put it? Oh, no. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, where necessary, a government must inspire respect. Wherever necessary, he must inspire fear. Clear things. But you have a goal, specific, as Prime Minister, or as government. To achieve him - I say it directly - you do whatever it takes. Unfortunately, this government does what it does not have to lose in the end and we will lose. We'll lose in The Hague. You're doing the other crime. Go and give Saudi Arabia a Patriot. Are you all right? Do you decide to give the Patriots of Greece? There are six arrays in Greece. Will you remove from Macedonia and Thrace their "Patriot"? That's where you get the array. Greece has six, and I will give Emir of Saudi Arabia, which has billions of oil, which finances 200 billion and gives it to America to get weapons - my own arrays, which I need to protect my own defensive umbrella! We have two in Northern Greece, two in Athens, one in Skyros, one in Chania. Do you know what the excuse is, Mr. Vice-President, of the New Democracy? That this array doesn't work. I mean, we have six arrays, one that's inactive. It doesn't work, he says. Your Minister said so. Why is this array not working and you are giving it to Saudi Arabia? You tell me. So, did we pay material, Patriot missiles, which are not working or are they inactive? What are you talking about? What are you doing? Honestly, I wonder. You know, somewhere intimate, many of you agree, not all of you with me, but 60% -70%, because you're patriots. Just forget your party patriotism and see your national patriotism at last. Leave your party out. Greece is in danger now. I'm telling you about it, we're at risk with The Hague, and the Prime Minister makes a crime to take us to The Hague like this. You know it yourself, think about it. When discussing two parts and one claims and the other does not claim, the Court shall decide on the claims of the first party and normally the Court shall decide in favour of what it claims. Legal fact. It's just things, it's an International Court, and there's no justice, as we imagine. To close, I'd like to say two things. The media have condemned the burdenful, the disgusting tribal video of the police officer who seized - I say it directly - young Roma. That's right. But I didn't see anyone say good to the two cops, who for the last six months were with the drug cartel, and we hit one ton of drugs. Two policemen at risk of their lives - undercover called this - were inside the gang to catch them. No good talk! For good reason, we don't say anything. For the wrong, the police are always 'bad'. For an idiot, for an animal, which he denounced to a child. To be objective with everyone and everything. Same as with OLEME's video. I saw a young man who acted like he was, not to say what. I remember my age - I know what you did at your school - respecting the teacher, he was our teacher. He was very vulgar to his teacher in a video and sincerely, he disappointed me, not for the child, but for all of you who ruled, because you did an education in which the children are ignorant. They don't have a lawsuit. It's also us parents, who don't treat our children, it's our teachers who don't treat them, and it's all our fault. That is what we need to see, then, if we want to have a real society tomorrow. To have real people. I don't say Greeks, but people and citizens. So when no OLAME saw the video and no trade unions from teachers or teachers did announcing it and an announcement about Ibrahim and Hassan, it bothers me. Because teachers are paid with a little money, and they have to be paid better to make tomorrow's Greeks. The teacher is the second father or second mother of the child. We must understand that, and finally, we must make a concrete reasonable agreement. If you want to rule, rule logically and not hypocritically. The Prime Minister comes out yesterday and says: no more party recruitment in the public sector. Do it with retroactive power. It shall apply from 7 July. So, what did the Prime Minister get out and say? We have taken care of them all now in the states, we are stopping the nominations of the citizens of New Democracy. Who are you laughing at, guys? Do you think the Greek still eats hay? There's the means you control them anyway, but there's the social media. They sound that way too. He said the Prime Minister will never hire any statemen again. Well done, congratulations. Good choice of the Prime Minister, but late and delayed. Let's start with retrospective power. Because your thousands of state-runners have been comforted and these lies - I'll tell you directly - will throw you into the Strip of History. This is not called reform or a final state. It is called a deeply party state, a neo-democratic state, which has no national patriotism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being held from the top Western theory, after being toured in the Greek Parliament exhibition "The stations of a route of almost two hundred years" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-five students and students and two teachers from the 2nd General School of Agios Dimitrios. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Deputy Minister, Mr Georgantas, has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, I have to speak after what Mr Velopoulos said about the issue that has been raised in Northern Greece. I think that all Greeks and much more of us, his representatives in Parliament, know what the country's national issues are. Of course you know that too, Mr Velopoulos. So one point that has been raised, I think we should not raise it at a level greater than it is at which it is. I also want to say that the gatherings and connections you made with phenomena that have occurred in other countries, no relationship can have with Greece, with our nation, with our country, and I think that we all have to show restraint these days, so that this case can also go the way that we have to take. We here must also safeguard with our work and with our presence, more than anything else, with the public word, the given unity of our nation. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u30	Mrs Domna Michailidou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, with the draft legislation being passed, the Government is implementing a basic electoral commitment by the New Democracy and at the same time, it is institutionally putting in place a systematic effort to deal with the demographic crisis in our country. A crisis that, if we do not take action today, will threaten the country's existence for decades that come, both at socio-economic and geopolitical level. It is obvious that reversal of a trend towards demographics is a complex matter and any initiatives that will give rise in time. This does not mean, however, that we should underestimate the positive effect that may have very targeted actions and targeted measures in this direction, as well as their impact on collective psychology, but also on citizens' personal weightings, with regard to the decision to take a position of responsibility and to start with a new family. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the grant of the birth allowance, this bill regulates, in particular, issues of preferential benefits, which are already granted, in order to increase their positive impact on both the beneficiaries and the social body in general. That's why we need all of you all to do this. We want you allies, not only in the first part of the bill, that with the high budget expenditure of 173 million euros, which is intended to help our demographic problem, but also in the substantial reforms that we are doing and to help the effectiveness of our country's welfare and benefits policy. I now come to the essence of the provisions, a birth allowance. ELSTAT's latest statistics show us that births last year fell by 2.3%, and deaths also fell by 3.4%. It is also clear from this that the decline in birth in our country has been lower than the corresponding average in the European Union over the last decade. This, coupled with the fact that more and more of us decide to have children at a higher age means that families eventually have a rate of growth of less than two. So the country's population is constantly shrinking. These tendencies are obviously not only recorded in Greece, they are many other European Union countries which have negative demographic trends, but the economic crisis that our country has experienced over the past decade has led to the difficulty of obtaining the necessary conditions for their families and children. For this reason, the introduction of a birth allowance is a necessity, following the practice of other European countries such as the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Luxembourg and Belgium. Demographic is a national issue, it is a development issue and it is a matter of insurance. The decline in the birth rate is obviously also linked to the prospect of our insurance system. Because the decline in births and the ageing of the working population means that the labour force is falling and the pensioners in our country are growing. These are two parallel trends that threaten the sustainability of the social security system. In these circumstances a modern demographic policy is more than necessary. It's urgent. The introduction for the first time of the birth allowance is a crucial component, essentially, but also symbolically, of such a policy. The allowance which will be inconsistent, I stress, will have a horizontal and almost universal character, which is why it is subject to two basic conditions. Firstly, a very high and second income limit of permanent and legal residence in our country. According to the Economic Experts' Council, the income ceiling that we set as a limit - that of a family to have a child, its first child, EUR 70,000, thus an equivalent income of EUR 40,000 - is only about 1% of the most prosperous Greeks. The allowance will be granted to Greeks who stay permanently in our country, will be granted to homosexuals, citizens of the European Union and will also be granted to citizens of the EEA, but also to citizens of Switzerland, as well as to citizens of third countries. But citizens from third countries who have lived permanently and legally in our country for over twelve years. This is because twelve years we think it is a year that is capable of ensuring a living bond between the beneficiary and the Greek society. The provision for a 12-year stay is linked to the demographic objective of the measure, as it does not mean granting such financial support to people for whom their long-term establishment is not guaranteed in the country and therefore their integration into the Greek society is not guaranteed. I note here that the birth allowance will be the first allowance to be granted fully automatedly, and that is why we are very happy with our cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Governance. And of course, as has already been pointed out, the birth allowance is merely one of the measures of an integrated demographic policy, which we have already established. I would remind the delegation that our Government has already legislated and implemented many other measures to reverse the demographic trend, such as EUR 1,000 tax free for every child, a reduction in the value added tax rate from 24% to 13% for infants and child seats, and the abolition of luxury tax on vehicles over two thousand cubic cubic families. After all, it was also within the proposals of the Intergroup on Population of the Parliament of 2018. It is of crucial importance for us, and perhaps this, if you like, is also the front of an integrated demographic policy. It is the introduction in 2020 of an extended system of access to nurseries and this through a global financial support, a medium-sized EUR 180 for all families and beneficiaries. In order to fulfil this objective, however, we also act within this draft law. How do we do that? Within Article 21, access by municipalities is currently facilitated by funding which already exists but has not been absorbed in order to establish and operate more kindergartens. The second part of the bill is about updating the conditions of use of four other basic benefits. In particular, the minimum guaranteed income, the child benefit, the housing allowance and the mountainous disadvantaged areas. There, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to see you allies, because it is not enough to vote only on this part of what gives benefits. It is essential that we also vote for fundamental reforms. And for us, the linking of subsidised policy, by ensuring that our children go to school, is absolutely a priority. In particular, with regard to the child's allowance, housing and minimum guaranteed income, their provision requires proof of the child's adequate schooling at school. All three allowances are subsidised tools aimed at strengthening family income in order to improve the quality of life of juvenile members of households. Training for us is an essential mechanism for social mobility. It is incomprehensible to talk about a welfare state in the 21st century, without assurance that all citizens and all households send their children to school. Benefit support must fulfil the minimum obligations of parental care so that parents can enable their children to develop their own personality and also to obtain necessary supplies for the future. That's where we're sitting. This interface combats social exclusion. In fact, he came to the committee, and the Citizens' Counselor and the Rights Counsel for the Child. We need you partners, we need you allies on this. You cannot vote for such a positive provision. For all the other three allowances, the period of stay required as a condition of grant of allowances also changes. So the beneficiaries of the housing allowance and the child's allowance are now citizens from third countries who live in our country, also for over twelve years. And I stress 'they have been staying legally and permanently for over twelve years'. I would point out, however, that a condition for the 12-year stay does not concern these applications and that it does not concern the existing beneficiaries in order not to disrupt the economic planning of thousands of households in our country. In addition - and there we want allies and wonder about the absence of this alliance - this bill provides that benefits will henceforth be paid for a single day. All allowances from the OPECA will be paid in the last working month. This is very important to us. It is important that our most vulnerable fellow citizens, who are beneficiaries of the allowances, can receive allowances on the same day, on the last day of the month, so that they know in advance how to organise their family budget. This certainly helps the most vulnerable of us to organise their monthly expenses, but it also helps public services to ensure a more efficient state. It is not possible for five allowances to need four different services five times in one month. We cannot need both the Department's Directorate-General for Welfare and the Ministry's Directorate-General for Finance and OPEKA, and many times the State's General Accounting Office to meet four or five times within a month, while we can save this whole bureaucratic deadlock, if you want. Last day of the month we will pay all the allowances, without micro-political, press releases, without Ministers coming out to say "pay this" and without the Mass Information Instruments to inform the beneficiaries of when they are paid and whether they are paid. Finally, with regard to the allowance for mountain and less-favoured areas by the bill, we are introducing the tax-free and the irreparable amount of aid. It is very important for us to take into account the additional costs of living which are borne by families living in adverse mountainous and disadvantaged areas. And here I would like to say that, as an amendment, we have also passed duty-free on the child's allowance, which has so far only had the character of the inconvenience. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, I am sure, is taken by all Parliament's wings as a necessary step towards depreciating the national risk of population indifference in the long term, but also the immediate improvement in the procedures for proprietary policy. Obviously the attempt to secure it over time will be continuous. The government expects the parties' proposals to come forward with this after the plenary has been completed. Because this objective goes beyond time, but we must all serve it consistently, efficiently and with optimism. Let the vote of this bill mark the passage from words to action, in terms of a political system, to address this major challenge of an existential nature for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u32	Thank you. We're opening the speaker circle. The curtain will be opened by Mr. Ioannis Economou from the New Democracy and Phythiotida for seven minutes. Sixty-four Members have been written. I feel bad every time I say we have to keep the seven-minute. I'm just telling you, think about the next ones who are your colleagues. This and nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with both the speech of our Minister, our rapporteur and the speeches of our colleagues in the committee, the substantial contribution of the draft law that we are discussing in supporting young families with the payment of the birth allowance, by simplifying bureaucratic procedures, by the election, I would say, through the standards laid down in the financial support, which are entitled to various families, standards linked to their tax obligations, by their stay in the country and perhaps the education of their children. Apart from that, however, this bill, ladies and gentlemen, gives us the opportunity to discuss at the National Representation about the most serious crisis that, in my opinion, is currently facing Greece and this is no other than the demographic crisis. "One garnish not obedient to the city, but lost to the oliganity," Aristotle pointed out, which means that no danger, no wound was faced by the city - state, but was lost because of oligonia. Indeed, the existence of a nation, since it is not threatened by other external risks, is mainly based on the renewal of population and the replacement of generations. But for Greece today, data from research by various organizations clearly illustrate one thing: Greece is shrinking, its population is shrinking and Greece is ageing. This trend leads to the nightmare scenario, in 2050, having a population of only eight million three hundred thousand, two and a half million less than in 2015, and young people up to eighteen years old account for only 28% of the total population. The importance of this development, ladies and gentlemen, is multidimensional. No serious long-term planning can be done without taking into account the size and composition of the population: insurance, labour policy, education policy, social welfare, immigration, defence and international relations. All are influenced and to some extent interact with population composition and demographic trends. In other words, without study and, above all, without tackling demographics, we cannot formulate a serious policy on the future of the country. It is true that several Greek governments have mentioned and dealt with the country's demographics, but none has dealt with it on the basis of its importance. The debate almost always led to a management of the impact of demographics on the causes of the problem being left intact. But, ladies and gentlemen, demographics is not a natural phenomenon, so that recordings and forecasts are sufficient. It is a purely political problem and must be dealt with. It is therefore clear that the country needs a structured and integrated demographic policy. This policy must provide long-term and generous measures to alleviate the effects of the cataclyst and its dramatic consequences for the country and society. But he needs more than that. Politics must bridge the gap between the desire on the one hand and the weakness on the other of thousands of young people to create a family and have children and thus reinvent the joy of life. A demographic policy for it to be effective should be able to provide individuals and families with material resources, but also strong institutional and moral support. Beyond supporting three and tens of families, as things have shaped now, it may be more important to turn our interest into the first step, namely having the first child. Of course, to be honest, the state has limits to what it can do. That is why, on an issue so crucial for our survival and for the continuity of our country, the private sector should also take action, the entrepreneurs, the social partners, the spiritual world and take action, but not in words, but with works and generous concessions. The incentives to be provided by employers, the narrative, the culture to which the spiritual world will assist, the policies to be financed by entrepreneurs are a crucial factor in dealing with inheritability. In my opinion, in these circumstances, all of this is the epitome of corporate social responsibility. In this direction, Madam Minister, the main components of an integrated demographic policy are: To tackle unemployment, which is perhaps the most important problem because young people do not go to family creation, because unemployment makes the feeling that time is not right and that they refer to the decision on the future. The introduction of penalties and counter-incentives for businesses that conduct extortionist and hostile to young people who give birth to and mainly to pregnant mothers. The design, on the other hand, of this logic, policies and actions to support births for working women. The training of the OAED is a special list of young people who have recently married or concluded with dismissals from new parents, so that they are easily identified by potential employers, and the introduction of a mandatory selection of this category for appointments to the public sector, as well as incentives for the private sector. The establishment of tariffs for public enterprises and public bodies with a reduction, not only for third and multitude families, but, for a period of time, also for families who have been born the first child. A tax system which will allow for greater voluntary discounts for pre-school and primary school children, on the basis of natural income criteria, so that as many beneficiaries as possible can be integrated. The coverage of the costs of prenatal control, the full health coverage of the mother and infant before and after childbirth, as well as a specific pricing policy for doctors and services, even in private clinics, for the birth of the first child and for the treatment of any problems it needs immediately after childbirth. Protection of the first residence of new couples and new generations. Finally, special reference and special attention should be given to cases of assisted reproduction. You know, seeking help in assisted reproduction, in order that the dream of having a child becomes a reality, is a great test, economical and psychological, for new couples with uncertain results. If one takes into account that average costs around EUR 3,500 in private clinics, without taking into account the cost of the examinations, if we see that the centres of assisted reproduction in public hospitals are too limited, so the waiting costs are too great, and that the insurance funds only cover a small part of the examinations and that for women there is a 40-year-old limit, one realizes how difficult it is for a couple to test this option. In the context of an integrated demographic strategy, the state, but also health entrepreneurs, must take steps to make this option more accessible to new couples. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we are wrong to underestimate the problem, that is to say, 'who lives and dies in fifty years', we will not only be disrespectful and few against the generations of the Greeks who have passed, but above all we will be accountable to our children and to the generations that are coming. Because the procrastination and denial of the demographic problem today will force them to live in a country less powerful. Less people and especially fewer young people mean an economy in constant decline and crisis, means stagnation and aroma of naphthalene in innovation, technology, aesthetics, intellectuals, cultural development, means great risks to safety, the composition of the population and our territorial integrity. So we must unite our minds, put water on our wine and create a great social alarm and tackle this issue effectively. Thank you very much for your time tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, I would like to put forward a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u36	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u37	Thank you. I would like to table a legislative improvement in this bill, which is about extending the protection of the 2 000 euro allowance. It is complementary to some aspects we have not seen and we are bringing it in complement to strengthen its protection. About the inconvenience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u38	Thank you. You'll share it, I imagine. Mrs. Rallia Christidou now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming today to discuss a draft law which shows once again not only the superficial but also your class perspective towards institutions in which you have theoretically sworn to institutions that we all want to support, and also to strengthen. But, as we have said before, it is charity and another is solidarity. Our state must be a state of solidarity rather than a state of charity and even a selective state. The draft law we are debating today comes, in theory, always to strengthen the family and to act as a measure of halting the demographic problem. So since we are talking about a financial provision for every child born, then we are logically talking about a measure with a positive sign, which we must all welcome, especially to SYRIZA, which we have given samples of our social policy at times more difficult than the present one. In the crisis we increased the welfare budget from 790 million to 3.5 billion, while at the same time transforming the welfare state into digital and transparent, a shield against customer relations that were flourishing over your days. Of these 3.5 billion, 1.4 related to the child. We gave 1.1 for a child's allowance, while 2015 was almost half. We doubled positions in nursery stations giving 70 million. 2019 was the first year that all child applications met thanks to the actions of SYRIZA and you said it was your achievement. We gave 71 million for an eighty-five thousand hot meals every day in primary schools. This is a measure of school leakage, not child punishment. We therefore welcome the new Republic's colleagues and the Government of New Democracy to the logic of subsidized policies, which have been so appalled in the run-up to the elections. We still remember the slogan, the 'development or benefits' dilemma. But this is the State's real intervention against social inequalities. There is no society of equality without social benefits. The EUR 2,000 single allowance, which is unexplained, is given in two instalments and not directly, is supported because it helps a family who has a child, covers some first expenses of birth, some first expenses of the newborn mother, if the latter chooses to give birth to a public hospital. This allowance can work helpfully if there is a grid of social benefits and provisions that offers security and strengthen the future mother, family and child in the early years of his life. I read, from page 194, a passage from the conclusion of the Intergroup of Parliamentary Committee on Demographic Demographics of 2018, co-signed by the New Democracy. It says: 'Supportive policies should be accompanied by policies to harmonise family, personal and working life in the event of loss of work, against the risk of poverty, households, with active employment policies, with targeted policies for the migration and refugee population, aimed at preventing and eliminating social exclusion'. In this field, the New Democracy, flying the conclusion of the Intergroup of Parliamentary Committee, chose to show its most renowned face, and this is because, through the other provisions of the bill, cuts in the child's allowance, the housing allowance and the CRL are being launched, the three main benefits that help the family and the child constantly and contribute substantially to the fight against subnatality, cuts that form part of the effort to satisfy a far-right audience. The New Democracy cuts benefits if one of the children of a family is absent. Instead of actually finding motives against the school leak, what does he prefer to do? It imposes punishment. This arrangement is mainly aimed at Greek Roma, but also attracts children with learning difficulties with slight disabilities. Instead of structurally addressing this problem, what does the New Democracy propose to us? The punishment. Will you, ladies and gentlemen, avoid school leaks by forming marginalized and excluded citizens? Your choice, instead of the five-year period, for benefits to be granted, is at least 12 years' duration, that is a regulation that increases discrimination. It is a regulation based on ethnic origin that is against both the Constitution and the International and Union Law and is forbidden. Tall letters of course for this nationalist hysterical hysteria that perpetuates you! A large part of Greek society, this unwanted part of the government, will be deprived of the benefits it has already received and not just what you are introducing now. I ask you this: do you really think this will help social stability? Is it gonna help security? How will it help the already tested Greek society, if you divide it further, by pushing the poor of this society a step below? I'm sure you'd like to wipe out the vulnerable people who are ruining your image, because it's in your ideology to think that poverty is shameful and incompetent. But the state, ladies and gentlemen, must take care of everyone and those who like you and those who do not like you. The state must pull ahead of society, sometimes at political cost, as we did, and not to indulge in its most humble instincts, strengthening them and breaking down the cohesion and good coexistence of people. Otherwise, what state is it? A few state? You do not think that these benefits, which serve basic people's needs, are channelled directly into the economy and gave income to local economies and services, shops, etc.Huh? This lack will become apparent not only to those receiving benefits, but to all our fellow citizens. I shall close with this, Mr President. The demographic problem is a matter that has been evolving for years. It will accept with your legislative predictions a sweeping blow. With this draft law, you legislate once again, despising on every concept of equality and solidarity, roaming arrogantly, not ignoring but indifferent to the problems of floods on your part. So the future that you promise of this country comes from a very dark past and has already grown old. So in your plans, you will find us against us and society together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, too. Mr. Michael Katrin has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, all models of forecasting agree that our country has been moving on a path of continuous population decline over the next thirty years, a reduction that is certain to be accompanied by a constant population ageing. And it is not difficult to see the dramatic consequences of such a development, which is not only limited to the insurance and pension system, but extends to every real area of social life, economic activity, geopolitical balances, but also national security. Of course, the demographic problem is not only a Greek peculiarity, but it is a pan-European issue, a problem which is not slowed down by immigration, as the report of the Joint Research Centre of the European Commission and the International Institute for the Analysis of Applied Systems supports. A key tool to respond effectively to the upcoming demographic changes is the timely adaptation to the new data. If, then, we see this draft law in this broader perspective, we will find that despite the positive provisions it encloses, such as the birth allowance, it does not fall within the scope of an overall demographic policy. In other words, and despite the large scales of government officials, the government does not seem to have at present a targeted demographic policy, with a specific strategy of action and implementation measures. And that, of course, makes a reasonable number of questions, given that it could very simply have exploited the report of the two hundred-page report of the Intergroup Committee of Parliament, which was set up in 2017, on a proposal from Fofi Gennimata and resulted in a series of very useful proposals. We, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of these proposals, tabled a proposal for a law in 2018, which was not adopted by the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government. But we are reintroducing this proposal today in the form of an amendment to the draft legislation under discussion. One of the main objectives is to help new couples not only become third-party or multitude - I wish this could happen - but to have at least one or at best two children. A first dimension of our policy is direct financial support for families and, in our assessment, it is not only the birth allowance that is sufficient. We propose a EUR 200 monthly allowance for three years after birth for each child and, of course, all family allowances are irresponsible and are not offset by public or insurance debts. A second dimension of our policy is the one that PASOK will once remember - the oldest in this Chamber - called'social wages', that is to say the benefits of the social state. Such a case is, for example, the Creative Employment Centres for children and children with disabilities, with very important work, but also huge social provision. We therefore propose that the CDIs and CIPs - AEOs as a whole join the public-benefited enterprises of the municipalities and social services, with all their employees, a proposal which everyone will agree in this Chamber is fair and reflects the multi-annual social, but above all educational work of the CIPs, which have been embraced by local societies. A third dimension of our policy is measures to tackle infertility. Ladies and gentlemen, one in five couples today cannot carry out his dream of a child because of the very high and often banning costs that the assisted reproduction process has. If we really consider demographics in this Chamber to be a major national issue, we must put to the top priority measures that enhance births. This means that further brave financial support and compensation is needed in relation to what EEAY has up to now. And it is estimated that more than twelve thousand inner cycles are held annually in our country, with a birth number of almost four thousand children a year in total of fifty - five thousand births held in our country. This figure, as we understand it, could be much larger, considering how many thousands of couples would like, but unfortunately they do not have the economic potential to exploit the new scientific potential. So we understand how important it is that there should be such a policy that supports, in practice, rather than theoretically. As far as the multi-textiles and multi-text policy are concerned, on the basis of the current data in which a person who has three children is actually considered to be polytectes, when it is a bad thing for the family to have a child, that is why we are updating the request - and we consider our request to be very mature - for the integration of the third-text families into the class of tents, and that is why we are putting forward a similar proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, we have recently been following a rekindling of the discussions on abortion, an issue which is not dealt with either by extremism or by bans, but by prevention, advisory and a strong protectionist framework for the single-parent family, as exists in countries with a modern and powerful social state. This dimension of the social state as an economic investment, on which the future of a society really depends, obviously some dogmatic supporters of liberal economic thought cannot see it. Finally, the important aspect of the demographic problem is the use of all available human capital available to our society and our country. I say 'all at all', because I am referring to disabled people, who are even largely an untapped capital. It requires measures and actions, not, of course, because people with disabilities need equal integration into economic and social life, but because the data have now been reversed and what will still need them even more in the coming years is the same economic and social life. It is therefore necessary to upgrade and make better use of the structures which concern them, with the aim of increasing citizens' services and more efficient operation. That is why we are tabling an amendment providing for the recovery of the self-sufficiency of the CEECE, which they are currently working, but, unfortunately, their integration into the social welfare centres of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is also being reappointed. Similar actions concerning the use of third-age people and in the context of healthy and active ageing introduced by the European Commission itself should be considered as another important parameter to address the demographic issue. As it seems, however, from today's debate, the absence of a comprehensive plan by the government does not allow it to capture all the dimensions - and there are too many - of the overall problem and the policies that are needed. We hope, before it's too late, that course will change. We, of course, support the positive measures of this bill in the Change Movement. However, we have a different concept, a holistic approach to the demographic issue, focusing on fundamental family support, actions and proposals that support the new generation, but above all support the institution of the family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, too. Mrs Anastasia - Catherine Alexopoulou from the Greek Solution for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the famous EUR 2 000 for every newborn in Greece since 1 January 2020 that the government has brought has caused many and varied reactions, both positive and negative. A lot has been said, but I will not repeat it here. I'll be content with some of my own thoughts. First of all, it is what we as a party, as a Greek Solution, have pointed out since the first moment that this issue has been raised. And that is the question that has not been answered clearly. Will the allowance be granted indiscriminately to any child born in Greece? So, is it going to receive the 2,000 euros both by the Greek mother and by the foreign ones, the one that came to our country in one way or another? Let's think a little bit more about this. It's a matter of justice and logic. How can a legitimate citizen of this state, who, on birth, pays taxes and participates in all commons, with a woman who came home in one way or another as a refugee or a illegal immigrant? How does the Greek family level, which contributes to the burdens of our state, with a family that has not offered Greekism, but has come to our country with immigration? Where's elementary justice? Let's go a little bit further. Many believed that this decision by the government tackles the demographic problem of the Greeks. Is the ingenuity that is plagued by our society being dealt with, however, by the criteria on which the allowance will be granted indiscriminately to every child who happened to be born in Greece? Is this or is it not a population alteration, given the fact that many foreign women and Muslims are born? Greece alone is not facing this measure. And how will the ingenuity of the Greeks be dealt with when a new couple is unable to cope with it? How will new Greeks be born when a young man with the salary he receives cannot de facto make a family? Our young people leave to foreigners and so the Greek nation is not renewed, ageing. This is the essence of things no matter how many people want to see it. What should be done? It must be said - that is what the logic says - that is what justice, but also the national interest - that the childbirth benefit only relates to Greek legal citizens, where we will also address the demographic issue, which is why the government itself is doing. However, let us assume that with this measure the government is really facing the demographic problem. Do you really think that? In other words, with the EUR 2,000 alone, the problems of Greek families are solved once and for all? The Greek Solution has clearly said that it is not enough for the childbirth allowance to preserve Hellenism. It's clear there's gonna be a lot to do, but too much to go on. Above all, Greeks and others should be assured. But think about another parameter: If the benefit to each newborn is actually limited to Greek only, then these 2,000 euros could be even more. We would, in other words, ensure a lot of money for every Greek citizen, since it would be comfortable for the Greeks. So the EUR 2,000 could be 2,500 and 3,000 more. That would be a proper, but also a fair, national policy. Who could then tell you 'no'? Ladies and gentlemen, they are not racism or xenophobia what I have told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u44	For Christ's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u45	They are just questions and concerns that arise from logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u46	Racist logic!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Chakaloto, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u48	If you consider racism to be a lover...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u49	Mrs Alexopoulou, please don't have a dialogue. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u50	Racist!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u51	...the Greeks and our country...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u52	And Greeks abroad get allowances.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Chakalato, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u54	We should take serious account of...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u55	We Greeks who lived abroad were getting allowances!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Chakalato, please. Mrs Alexopoulou, do not engage in dialogue and continue your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u57	It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u58	But you cannot say that it is not racist.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u59	Why is it racist? Because I love my race?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u60	Mrs Alexopoulou, continue your speech and do not engage in dialogue. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u61	Because Greeks who live abroad also get benefits.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u62	We must therefore take this seriously, because mistakes are made and can also be made in remedial actions. I think, moreover, that we all agree that what is important is the Greekism and the interests of the country, the safeguarding of its future. As Greek MPs this interest has been sworn to preserve, sir! Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u63	Be well. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, don't do things that you don't like, when you're at Step, do you. Tell them to your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, Greece has one and a half million immigrants!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u65	You're very welcome. Do you want a dialogue? If you were here and did the same, would you like it? Please! I did not say: 'Why do you say that?' I said don't interrupt my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-three students and students and four educational attendants from the 3rd Municipal School of Agrinio. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Brizidou from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is about to vote on the EUR 2 000 birth allowance. We all know that our country's population is decreasing and growing. What does that mean? It means that we cannot have much hopes for growth and progress, for a project that presents before us with the participation of young people, with the participation of active people. The country's balance is being lost, the sustainability of the insurance funds is being jeopardised. There's even a security issue! The measure is therefore particularly useful and comes at a time when the whole country understands that something needs to be done. This allowance is tax-free, is irreparable, is not offset by other debts and can, in fact, take a substantial place and value in the Greek family. Greek families are seriously affected and I think that these measures, which are being implemented to support the Greek family in the form of allowances or facilities - such as in the case of infants, the reduction of VAT from 24% to 13%, such as the luxurious tax on cars over two thousand cubic metres, which the multiple families usually have - mean the government's care for the help of the Greek family, the facilitation and the possibility of giving birth to and raising children. The allowance paid only has the limitations of the equivalent family income of 40,000, which may be the limit and above that cannot be granted - I do not think it is necessary - and, of course, the mother lives twelve years in Greece or the father if she takes over the child's upbringing. As the bill and what it provides, we believe it is absolutely right, but also fair. We understand that the MPs of all parties, from the Step forward of the House, may also give them any more provision, since they are not obliged to apply it, nor, of course, do they have to force the country's financial control and finances and make it difficult for them. It is good, however, that there are no excesses, because it is well known and is the will of the whole society to exist - as far as possible - these aids and facilities. But there must also be a consensus in this direction, and not with the logic of 'when these benefits are given, why not go a little further?', to make strict criticism and to close down everything that is done in a very good way. We also have the reform of four other benefits, which also come at a time of use. However, before I refer to allowances, I would like to say that the New Democracy and with its birth allowance, and with these benefits, first of all, it remains faith in its election announcements. Secondly, we need to know what its logic is, which, in my opinion, is absolutely right. The Greek families are not to live with the benefits. Greek families deserve growth, jobs, substantial wages to be able to live decently. However, there are also families who cannot find a job or have difficult conditions. That's what benefits are coming for. The benefits come not to lead the Greeks to impoverishment, so that there are no very unfavourable situations. They are not given in order for a citizen to be able, by putting them in the balance, to sometimes prefer to be unemployed and receive the benefits, because it is about the same and to refuse a job when given the opportunity. Because if we push the Greeks in this direction, then it is certain that we cannot have progress and development either for each individual or for the whole of our country. As far as the guaranteed income is concerned, the child benefit and the housing allowance are concerned, the criterion is that children should follow compulsory education. And here, of course, there have been objections from Members of other parties. Is there anyone who does not accept that education is the basis of a society, is it the foundation of growth and progress? So how can we go forward when we are not trying to ensure that children are properly trained? And this measure isn't right? There are parents who choose to drive their children to work to get some income. If, however, there is a dilemma for their children to go to work or lose the allowance, they may send them to school. It is a measure of protecting children in the right direction. If again it's the choice of children not to go to school, what will the twelve-year-olds do? They will be in the neighborhoods, they will not progress and join with older children, they will be in danger of being in violation of them and having real harm. I therefore consider, in conclusion, that this bill has very careful laws in the right direction, taking everything in detail with a balance, has chosen gold incision and if we really want our society, our new generation, our homeland, to be able to benefit from such bills, which are essentially what they are? Facilities and offering to our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Mrs Brysidou. Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement, Mr Kegeroglu, has asked for the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, both the previous SYRIZA government and the New Democracy's current government support and try to convince us that we have come out of the memoranda. They shall disagree only on the date of exit. SYRIZA says this happened in August 2018 and New Democracy says it happened on July 8th, on the day of the elections. Unfortunately, reality says different things. Citizens, society, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, professionals, farmers continue to experience the hardships. As long as there are, ladies and gentlemen, commitments for surpluses, as long as overtaxation is present, as long as the new generation is abroad, as long as the severe problems are plagued by each family, society remains in a memorandum and the Change Movement, with responsibility, is stepping up its efforts to provide sustainable solutions to the accumulated social and economic problems. That is why we are tabling concrete proposals, which can help to develop and solve social problems, through the creation of a sustainable social state. We have tabled a proposal for a law to restore the thirteenth pension as normal, granted by the insurer, beyond and outside the conditions of overtaxation and the bargaining of the known dividend. We have tabled a proposal for the reintroduction of the EAS on a new basis and, of course, the reintroduction of the lower pension - and the ESA and the lower pension - by the SYRIZA Government. We have tabled a proposal, by means of an amendment, to today's draft law to restore the system of determining the basic salary through collective bargaining of the social partners, through the National General Labour Convention. We have tabled an amendment to remove three years. We think it is mature to move these issues forward. The most appropriate to decide on wages through collective bargaining is the economy itself and the workers and no Minister knows better. In addition to the horizontal de-escalation of over-taxation, we propose linking additional tax reductions for all companies that will create new jobs or turn semi-employment into full-time jobs or improve workers' pay. This is a framework that, together with many other proposals, shows the prospect that the country must follow, to escape the stagnation, to escape the misery imposed by the memorial commitments, which the Greek family, the Greek people, experiences in the worst way. Of course it is worth mentioning yesterday's interview with the President of SYRIZA with Mr Hatzinikolau, I think, which was revealing. Mr. Tsipras, like other times, admitted that the government of SYRIZA and himself brought an additional unnecessarily inappropriate memorandum. Just like that. A hundred billion in burden on the state, the economy and the citizens, 15 to 20 billion additional burden measures for small and medium-sized enterprises, overtaxation and, in particular, a great increase in indirect taxation, VAT and excise duties, which affect the family, which affect low and medium-income, the reduction of social costs, the abolition of the CSR, and even the interruption of widow's pensions. All this in a simple way. He says: "Yes, in February 2015, we had to pursue another policy." But we have lost four years, Mr Tsipras, four years of growth, even anemic, by keeping the new generation established and all the creative and productive forces of the country at a time when Europe was moving forward. The famous QE was always coming and it wasn't all about us. Yes, then, in February 2015, the opportunity was lost, but he did not mention his negative effects and personal responsibilities. But that's not just the chance of a natural phenomenon being lost. The 2015 catastrophic choices were decisions of this particular person. She decided to overthrow the course of dealing with the crisis, with all her mistakes and omissions, and set the country back, while it was ahead, it had succeeded and eliminated the deficits, but also entered a development period. Greece, and then paid dearly, after the difficult decisions to deal with the crisis, both Mr. Tsipras' original antimonetary recipe, we abolish the memorandum with an article and a law - as well as his mutated Memorandum Recipe - we do what the Troika or rather, as they have been told, the "subjects". These are the two aspects to his policies, which he did not say yesterday. Of course, we must say that the demographic problem was intensified during the period of the crisis and continued in the years of the SYRIZA, because the consequences of the crisis were not addressed, because the family continued to experience the hardships today. It has evolved on one of the most important issues, not only because of the reduction in births, but, as has been pointed out by others, the problem becomes more acute because of the ageing of the population. The births are falling over time and we can't hide the problem under the carpet. Any delay in dealing with it is criminal. However, the problem, Mr Minister, and ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is not dealt with by an allowance, but by an overall demographic policy. In addition to the proposal to set up a intergroup committee, which the Bureau of Parliament accepted during the previous period, which reached conclusions and proposals, we tabled a well-processed proposal for a law, with specific guidelines, in order now to reverse the negative development of demographic indicators. These are proposals for the committee's conclusion, and in addition to the allowance, for which we are voting - and the specific provision and bill entitled 'benefit', which is not called for in demographic policy - we propose that, for the first three years after the child's birth, the child's allowance should be EUR 200 to support the family, starting with a member above, whether he is the first child or any child. We believe that support for families with problems, for infertile couples, must be unavoidable. It is a major problem, and we should see it. Transporting infant species, all kinds of baby-care-related species, at the over-reduced rate of 6% will be a practical support to the family. The creative employment of children - we have already mentioned too much - is important to us. Yes, children, infants' stations, creative employment and children and children with disabilities naturally through self-government. We had tabled a comprehensive proposal, as I said to you in the government of SYRIZA, and with today's amendment, together with the other proposals, because we believe that the permanent provision of these services by self-government throughout Greece can make a decisive contribution to the support of the family. All this, of course, and many other things that can come within the framework of a demographic policy should have a centre for coordination and promotion, that of demographic policy and family planning, of family support. That is why we are proposing the establishment of a Secretariat for Demographic Policy in order to have the coordination point and the secretariat at the Ministry of Labour we believe that a national Commission should be set up which, apart from the representation of the relevant ministries - because the issue is interministerial - will also involve the social actors who can contribute both to the formulation of proposals and solutions and to the effective implementation of this policy. So we believe that we can create a package that can in practice support the family. There is too much to go through from school education to road safety to reduce both the injuries and the deaths of young people who are being treated, there is not that information that will also lead to the development of the roads of all of us, of course, but especially of young people. These are proposals which have to do with the return of the new generation and its integration into the social and productive process of our country. This can be done with specific policies, proposals that have to do with the whole - I would say - of policies. I conclude by saying that such a demographic policy cannot have the title 'child', 'child', 'child'. It's something specific. We are talking about the overall, what can bring the best results, what our society hopes for. I should like to say that the legislative improvements tabled by the Minister and those relating to the incompatibility and incompatibility are positive, but we tell him to see further the categories of couples who, for reasons of temporary employment abroad - whether in the European Union or in services or in the private sector - should not be excluded. Since a couple lives in our country ten and fifteen years, and for work reasons there is five and six months abroad, they must not lose this allowance. Look at it, there's a way to solve it. Of course, see again Article 19 of the bill, where there is a ban on mobility. For example, in the OPEKA, you say that it is not the right for the worker to request mobility when applicable to the entire public sector. Set up a different conception in the OPECA or also incentives to remain. But mobility in every way must concern all civil servants, of course, through rules and institutional procedures. As we have said, we are voting for the allowance but as an allowance and not as a demographic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-one students and three school attendants from the Ilion Music School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Guys, good progress! Parliamentary spokesman from the Greek Solution, Mr Hetas - and will have him - will be the first to be heard by Mr Maraveyas from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Maraveya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before we begin the detailed discussion of the individual provisions, I think we all have to recognise the importance of the core of this bill. This is a piece of legislation in the form of solutions to demographic, insurance, national security and not just. We must give credit to the leadership of the Ministry of Labour on the social perception and broadness of the spirit that it has shown throughout the drafting of the legislation under discussion. Proof of this is the significant improvements made to the original text following the public consultation on the draft law. Therefore, after all this, one would think that there would be no room in the House for petty and easy opposition, especially for a government initiative that touches hundreds of thousands of people and the needs of so many old and young families. Unfortunately, however, during the debate on the bill in the committee responsible, the Qualified Opposition cannot deny the importance of the birth allowance has once again produced reports of poor quality opposition. Mrs Fotou herself, the former Minister, reportedly reported cuts hidden in the second part of the bill, to the minimum guaranteed income, which SYRIZA allegedly introduced for the first time. This is double inaccurate. First of all, because this allowance had been introduced for the first time by the Government of New Democracy and, secondly, because there was absolutely no reduction as confirmed by the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, neither the per capita aid or the total number of beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income. Ladies and gentlemen, finally it seems that SYRIZA misunderstands the quality of the Mitsotakis Government and perceives it as an opportunity to reverse reality. But citizens cannot be confused and forget the truth, and I explain it. We have criticised the fact that the birth allowance will be given in two instalments, which Mrs Fotio also said disturbs family planning. Of course, he misleaded that this programming was being assisted since such an allowance was not given. However, we have not heard anything about the positive measure of paying all these allowances, which are included in this bill, on the last working day of each month and not depending on the availability of each minister who may have given two months together as a bonus and then nothing for a long time. People are aware of these truths and do not forget them. Nor can they forget that SYRIZA was the one who disappeared by the EVS and the current New Democracy government is the one trying to make up for the losses of the low-pensions from the abolition of this allowance, with measures such as the permanent aid mechanism and yesterday's amendment for the full exemption of the low-pensions from their involvement in medicines. So we are doing - as with the new insurance which will soon come to Parliament - an appeal to the impact of the Katorugalos Act, one of which was, unfortunately, the abolition of the CSCE. This is, unfortunately, for SYRIZA, the truth and thankfully the citizens know it. Madam Minister, this bill actually goes beyond the granting of a single 2 000 euro grant for every new child. It attempts to tackle the demographic problem with the overall re-introduction of family welfare policy through the granting of financial aid, such as birth allowance, child benefit, housing allowance and minimum guaranteed income, which, after the last constitutional review introduced by the New Democracy, is now protected by Article 21 of the Constitution, and - I remind you - in conjunction with the already voted-in reduction in VAT for infants, the EUR 1,000 tax free for every child and measures for multiples. Also, with regard to the allowance for mountain and less-favoured areas, the bill establishes the tax-free and irreparable amount of aid. This takes into account the additional living costs borne by families, which are unfavourable because of their geographical isolation. Apart from an active public policy providing financial incentives for new births, however, the daily facilitation of the family and especially of the working mother is also needed, for example, by means of more nursery facilities. That is why this bill also facilitates access by all municipalities to public funding for the purpose of operating more kindergartens in order to ensure a position for all families in need. At the same time, we are trying to involve the downward course of the active population with the so-called Brain Drain phenomenon. For the latter, the same Minister for Labour, Mr Brutsis, has promised that soon the program will be launched to attract Greek scientists abroad to repatriate, with a view to their employment in sectors of the private sector. It is a measure that will not only provide necessary know-how in many productive sectors, but we hope that it will also stop the wave of fleeing and other young people who have to give much to Greek society. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by congratulating the Ministry of Labour's leadership on another central commitment to start the electronic insurance issue in five months' time. With the planned integration of the funds and with all the insurance data in common, the new body, e-ECA, will be able to issue at the same time a master, subsidiary and one in three pending cases at the same time. This is the top initiative of the Ministry of Labour that comes to button with digitisation of insurance data and certificates that are under way. These important interventions are designed by the Ministry of Labour without drum impacts and bakery. We leave others the alteration of reality, the denial of the progress of the Mitsotakis Government and the extremist criticism of everything. This is because in the New Democracy we believe that only by stable, serious and creative steps can we go ahead with the social state. That is why we are voting in favour of this bill, supporting the government and the upcoming major battle for the new insurance policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, too. Mr. Konstantinos Hetas, Parliamentary spokesman, from the Greek Solution for six minutes. A crowd is observed and I ask for your understanding, because Mr. Katsotis also asked for the floor from the Communist Party of Greece and will have it, but he has said that at 14.00 a.m. he wants the Minister of State to speak as well, Mr. Pierracakis, but he has not appeared yet. We'll see how that goes, Mr. Katasotis. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u72	I may also need my dentistry, Mr President. The reason - and I apologise to the fellow Members who are waiting and we will all be waiting, because until tonight we will all be, in the heart of our turn - that I am taking the floor now is because some things I cannot really understand in this Chamber and I am very sorry. I do not remember any of us sitting on the benches for too many hours, no matter what we have heard and disagree with anything, either throw ourselves out, stop, cry, cry or whistle or anything. And I say this about what happened before when my colleague, Mrs Alexopoulou, spoke. And usually the voices come from here. I mean, you're trying to blame us for some things that you do and I really ask for your logic and your testimony that we've never said anything in here, no matter what we hear and disagree in too much. Mr. Muzala, you know that, because in the coffee we drink outside, we're fine. I mean, let's just let the other one talk and disagree. Let us not render labels, let us not put labels on people who are not. Because I can also say to you - with the logic of the irresistible cries from the benches and the holidays -'shine-fascists' and tell you that you are racist against the Greeks, because that is what you are doing, you are, you are nothing more. You're racist against the Greeks! I would ask that the level, which is excellent within Parliament, be maintained. I think that the first example we give is that we have not interrupted people in here, we are talking to everyone, we have debates with everyone, we have opposing views - thankfully with you! - many important issues. But you will allow us to have our views and to listen to society and the Greek people. To tell Mr Tsakalotos, with whom we have a audience - I think he himself grew up abroad - I will not be shaken by Mr. Tsakalotos or Mrs. Anagnostopoulou and tell me about the Greeks abroad, especially to us, not to me who was born and raised in Germany. I, Mr Tsakaloto, come here now, don't remember my father or my mother stealing animals and slaughtering them with axes of mandarins and I don't remember - look at them here! - set in line with the 'EUROPANK'! So this is the situation of illegal immigrants! And I just said it, you're interrupting again! I don't even remember throwing the food in the trash! These are pictures of Moria, I'll testify later. I do not remember any of the Greeks abroad - who I am the offender - who went to Germany at the great wave of immigration to do what Pakistani, Algerians and others do. What are you doing? Comparing the Greek immigrants of 1960? Do you do this before the Greek people? The Greek people hear you! For God's sake, do you compare us, the children of the hostel, to those who invade our country illegally, without anyone having invited them? Are you serious now and you're telling them in here? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And you raise your finger and show us already? Us, my father, the one I lived with 11 years with? Are you serious? What Islam worship is this? I don't really understand it on your behalf. I don't understand it. I'm going a little bit to the bill, and I'm moving on. Mrs Michailidou - Mrs Michaelidou is not here - all good, what do you want from third countries? In Lesvos from 1st January until today, 27, 28-- how long has the month been? - We had forty-two births - they are official figures - foreigners, nine Greek birds, forty-two, nine, numbers. The numbers are vague, Mr. Brutsi. On New Year's Day eight children of illegal immigrants were born and a Greek bird. Aren't they scaring you? Mrs Michailidou is also not here, because she should be here today, now that I want her to be and I need her to be parliamentary and tell her what she has been through, what has gone through - I will say - on 31-12-2019, which I have said from this seat here before. At the time we changed the time Ms.Michalidou made FEK with cash, overpaid cards to over sixteen and under eighteen, that is to say, to children we don't know how old she is, without papers, apartments to stay through one to four people, computers, Wi-Fi, washing machines, refrigerators, TVs, boilers, hospital care, pharmacies, entertainment, sports activities. Yes or no? Does that say or doesn't your decision that you went through on 31-12-2019? And you say that we are racist, not you are racist towards the Greeks and those who have no jobs, our children who have left, six hundred thousand Greeks at the most productive age and to produce jobs, but also to make families, eighteen, twenty, twenty-five years old. We're done! Take two pricks and we solved the matter! It's not like that, I'm sorry, but that's not how it works! Greece broadcasts SOS and you know it. You wouldn't expect me to say it today. Eighty-six thousand were births, a hundred twenty thousand deaths. Hetas doesn't say it. Solution doesn't say it. ELSTAT says it, eighty-six to twenty. Get the bill out! Soon we will be eight and a half million, if you care about that, or do not care about that either. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm also going to need my dentistry. And move fast, because you think with the two grand you'll give it a solution. I will also testify in the Minutes - and my source is ELSTAT, I don't think ELSTAT should say fairy tales or do our own political game - births in total, deaths in the years 2014 to 2018. They are births - deaths, a hundred forty - six thousand, six hundred ten more, that is, we lost a hundred fifty thousand citizens, the Yanna, that is, we lost them from death from 2014 to 2018. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'll testify after the pictures I showed them before. And I want to take you to that, because we're listening to the outrageous. We have heard Mr Mitaraki, who went on Sunday to Lero, and listen, ladies and gentlemen, to me! - She's so excited. - because he distinguished in the food manufacturing plant, where illegal immigrants are, and he said that we have great production, that's where people work. No one said, of course, to Mr Mitarakis that "the foods you produce there, Mr Mitaraki, and the Greek people pay for these" - these are photographs from Chios and foods from Moria where I have my own people working in - "everyday they are tons thrown in the trash". I'll testify to the Minutes. Also, one should inform Mr Mitarakis that investors, those who have come, every 1st month, at 26, because your stress is to pay them on time, set tails outside the banks to get the money, the 400 euros. These are pictures of our islands. Also - see here, Minister - they are stealing animals and they have set up in Moria - and not only - improvisations and then we wonder how the diseases come. We're gonna get hurt. Here's what's going on, hanging the livers from the bags. There aren't any of these. I'll testify to everything in the Minutes. Take them and show them to Mr. Metarakis and the rest of the New Democracy. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm going to the next thing. The time is 14:00 at noon. Mr. Augias is still a State Secretary for Sports? The Government of New Democracy continues and holds this man in the place of the State Secretary for Sports, after what happened yesterday? After the decision was taken - not the decision - that PAOK and Xanthi should fall, he told us that the self-employed must not be involved, but he himself two days before the case was dealt with, took the two of the five of the committee, put two of the five of the five of the Committee, to come out of Piraeus, and accidentally these two voted 'in favour' of the condemnation of PAOK and Xanthi. That was Mr. Augias. Will anyone tell us if there's a dependency? What's that addiction, guys?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u73	Is that for demographics?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u74	No, I went to another thing. As a parliamentary representative, Mr Colleague, I can say what I want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u75	He's a parliamentary representative, Mr. Kelles.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u76	What I'm saying is very interesting. Here's the thing. Don't interrupt me. I don't lose the flow, - this is my job, reporter - six hours to talk. Listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u77	That's what I'm doing, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u78	And Larissa has suffered from them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u79	It has been proven since the first moment that we passed the sporting law in here, that Mr. Aeggeakis is a ludicrous one. He proved it yesterday. We call on Mr. Mitsakis today, now - and he is late - to take him out of this position, because while Greece has huge problems to face, we still put one in our head, divide it into two, for a whim of Marinakis, Augia. No, well, that's not gonna happen. What are we doing here? We've got Kastelorizo, Lero, Chios, all that we live, and we've got Ausgeakis. Haelo's pods have been opened. Zorgakis was deleted from the New Democracy. All right, I'd expect Zorgakis and the rest of us here in Macedonia to show the same sensitivity - Thodore and the others - and Macedonian, when this terrible Skopje agreement was signed and we gave Macedonia the name to Skopje. I didn't see the same sensitivity, but in any case Zorgakis was deleted, the Aeolus amusements opened, you put problems in your head and Mr. Petsas came in a few minutes ago and changed the law - listen - so PAOK and Xanthi won't fall. In other words, we have an intervention in the self-sufficient football invoked by Mr. Aygeakis. So what do we do? We're putting the sign on PAOK that we're happy with you, we've changed the law for you, you're not gonna be charged, but it's probably five, six, seven points lost to get the championship, as it's probably planned. Listen to me, we're not going to suites, where Mr. Chakalotos and the others go. We are in logic, and reason says that when there is a man who is inadequate in his duties, he must be stopped. In order not to go to the prefecture of Ausgenakis and what happened in a month and a half since the day the sports law on violence was passed. What can I say? Olympiacos - Panathinaikos, AEK - Olympiacos episodes, Olympic events - PAOK, death dates between fans, dead fan Mars had. What's changed? We were yelling. It's not gonna change anything. It's okay. We are still waiting today, until the night when we will end, for the Government of Mr Mitsotakis to do what he has to do and put a man in the knowledge, independent and responsible position of the State Secretary of Sports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr. Heta. I will give the floor to Mr Ioannis - Michael Loverdos from New Democracy. Then the parliamentary spokesman from the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, and then the Minister of State, responsible for digital governance, Mr. Pierracakis, will speak. That's how the program comes out. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u81	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Brysidou - although she has gone - because I have heard her speak without a manuscript. It is very important that the Members of Parliament speak - and indeed new Members - without a manuscript. However, I would like to come to our point, because since this morning I have heard a great deal both inside and outside the House, but I hear less about demographics and more about PAOK. I grieve, because demographic is no longer a problem, as it was a few years ago. I remember in the 1990s in this Chamber again, they met and made committees, came up with findings and the findings were never applied. Population concerns, not only today and tomorrow, but the country's very existence. It threatens the Greek nation itself. If we do not understand it, if we have not realised it - as I fear very much that many Greeks, even some of the three hundred people in this House, have not realised it - then we will soon find ourselves before tragic and unpleasant surprises. I have already heard a number of speakers - such as Giannis Economou - who seem to have understood it, but it is not enough. We all need to understand, not only the three hundred, not just those who are or are involved in politics, or the media, but all of Greece. We are no longer talking about the effects it will have on pensions, on the labour market - these too are very serious issues - but we are talking about the very existence of the Greek nation. The bill we are debating today is in the right direction. It is precisely about starting to do something about demographics, about five and five, not just five. The only five has passed, we're in five. It is a pre-election commitment of the New Democracy, very right, implemented by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis after-election and good. Is it a demographic policy integrated? No, it's not. Demographics are a very complex issue that is not available for the reason I heard this morning by the rapporteurs. One said "I did this", the other said "we did what", "the others did more", "I did less", "who did most" etc. We don't play the courgettes with the demographics, neither SYRIZA, nor the New Democracy, nor the PASOK did it enough to be realistic, because if we had done enough, we wouldn't be dealing with it today. The demographics are not offered for party controversy. Let's finally make a decision. I'll give you just one example, because everyone's talking about pensions and how much it's going to get in 2050. If the Greek population continues to decline and its ageing, in 2050 have you realised that the Greeks will be less than in 1950, after the greatest catastrophe that Greece has suffered since the establishment of the Greek state? The 1940s were the most destructive decade in the history of Greece and the Greeks were almost 8 million in 1951. In 2050, a hundred years later, we'll be younger and older. Are we aware of this? In 1960 the average age of the Greeks was 31.5 years. Today is 46.5 years. In 2050 it will be over 55 years and almost 60 years will be as many as under 60. Which country are we talking about then? Have you realised that? A lot of people don't know that. We are talking today about the Turkish risk, and we are rightly talking, because it is great. But I'm not afraid of war, because war won't happen. The demographic figures are both at our expense and in favour of the Turks, which if I were in the Turkish position I would not do anything at all. I'd wait. Are we aware that in 1922, when the greatest disaster took place in the history of Greece, the Asia Minor disaster, were we the Greeks seven million and the Turks fifteen million? Did you know that? Most people don't know it. In 1960 the Greeks were eight million three thousand and the Turks twenty - seven million, one to three. Today we are ten and the Turks are eighty-three million, one to eight. In 2060 we will be eight million and the Turks will be a hundred fifty million, one to twenty. Tell me realistically, a country with twenty-six hundred twenty million and a country with sixty-eight million, what comparison can they have? Sounds like a nightmare to say, but that's the truth, whether we like it or not. Therefore, the question is not whether it will be SYRIZA, the New Democracy or the PASOK, or the Greek Solution or the JRC. There won't be any of them in 2050 if we keep this up. And 2050 is not far away. I won't live. Most of them won't live in here. Our children will live. The next generations will live. Our country will live, and our country must live, because it is our duty. That's why we're in here. So don't keep quiet, don't close our eyes. We now need an overall demographic policy that is not just a party or a government. Not all parties together, not all three hundred together. We need to get everybody inside. We need the media, the rich and powerful businessmen, PAOK, Olympiacos, AEK, the Panathinaikos, all for our nation's survival. If we don't understand that, then I'm very sorry, but I won't live to see it. But my son who this year gives tests to get into the law school and I'll have to give him something better than my fathers left. If we silence this dramatic appeal - which I do not make it myself, it is made by every sound and reasonable person who can live in this place - we do not listen to it, then I am very sorry, but we will be worthy of our bad destiny. We have to give the story a reason, we have to give our children a reason. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u82	Parliamentary spokesman from the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Our rapporteur, Mr George Lambroulis, has fully presented the views of the JRC on the bill, highlighting the causes of the demographic problem and the anti-popular policies that make it worse. Policies followed by all the governments that went through the place of the New Democracy, the PASOK, the SYRIZA. All of them have the priority of creating the friendly investment environment and the work of all was to smash labour and insurance rights, to reduce the price of labour, to the working conditions of the jungle, to trade in health, to welfare, to education and to privatise sectors of the economy. On the other hand, tax exemptions, tax exemptions, warm money to business groups from the state budget that underwent the workers with their tax. All this exacerbates problems and leads young people and young people to unemployment, migration and deadlock. The JRC claims that your interest is hypocritical and the proof is the rejection of all these amendments that we have tabled over time. In 2014, when New Democracy had abolished the allowance, we asked a timely question about the childbirth allowance for all women working in the public sector, in the private sector, self-employed, rural, unemployed and insecure. The New Democracy responded with the cutback. In 2019, on 18 March, we tabled an amendment to introduce maternity allowance for self-employed women. In addition, the introduction of a childbirth allowance, as a whole, for workers, uninsured and unemployed. We have also tabled an amendment to abolish the completion, at least, of a two-day insurance period for the granting of maternity leave, pregnancy, childbirth, taking over from the ECAI and extending the special maternity protection granted by the OAED to workers who are currently excluded from it for the reason of the conditions. Unfortunately, both the PASOK and the New Democracy together and as a coexistence and SYRIZA rejected them. We'll testify for the Minutes, so they'll be here for the story. We will also testify to the complaint from the OPEKA workers, who were in occupation today, where they disagree with Article 19, which you made a legislative improvement and made it worse. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You claim that the bill is part of your policy to support maternity, which is an element in tackling the demographic problem, which is of course linked to the reinsurance arrangements. The Minister called on young people and young people to take responsibility for the creation of a family. Obviously, it considers the demographic issue to be an individual and not a social issue. It is not social responsibility, it is individual and not social responsibility. In her speech she noted that the election commitment to the two thousand euro birth allowance, which the JRC, of course, will vote on. But by paying it in two instalments, we don't agree. As we denounce, we are even now calling for the withdrawal of Articles 7, 15, 17 and 29 which set time and other restrictions, such as the 12-year-old residence in the country, five-year-olds for housing, conditions for children's education. The reactionary racist views heard here, too, find their place in this bill. Can a sum of money, no matter how much help it offers to a family, change this framework that has been formed, shaped by anti-government laws, wage cuts, tax cuts, all that we have previously shown? For a couple today having children is a great adventure, much larger than there was for some previous generations. Everything related to birth, issues of fertility, prenatal control, medical surveillance during pregnancy, safe delivery in a hospital environment, proper care of newborns, which could be self-evident with progress in science and technology for new families from the populace, is now a Golgotha that climbs it, carrying the cross of a permanent insecurity, since these absolutely necessary specifications over time prove to be directed only at the having. Motherhood is punishable as a crime against the employer. Acquisition of a child is taxed as a presumption of economic durability, while the hunting of the people's family is intensified daily, with the addition of increasingly imaginative persecutions, which constantly put new obstacles to the effort to achieve the struggle of children's greatness. We are talking about the necessary conditions for the solution of the demographic problem, which, as has been said, is a complex issue. I would like to read to you a letter that substantiates what this framework is which forms these terms. This letter I'll tell you at the end where it is from. It says “from the first class at school at noon we had a full lunch, then we read our lessons for the next day and participated in various activities, arts, sports, natural environments, depending on our personal interests and always with the presence and contribution of teachers until our parents return from work. All this, in clean, warm, healthy and safe environment in school buildings and facilities, with regular maintenance and immediate repairs, if necessary. The schools were only in school for weak students and of course free of charge. We had a chemistry and physics laboratory, a laboratory for various small structures, a garden for gardening and cooking for cooking lessons. Each school had its own courtyard and closed gym with all the gym organs. These facilities met very strict requirements and standards for the safety of the student and education community and offered the best conditions for educational work, teachers and students. Twice a month we went to watch theatre, concerts at a music mansion or at a cinema, in the context of our school education. All this, of course, free of charge. At the same time, at the beginning of the school year, teachers of music, sport and other specialities chose according to the particular inclination of each child and selected children with special talents and promoted them with the agreement of their parents and post-school and free specialization. At school in the context of preventive medicine, we were examined twice a year by doctors of all specialties and made the necessary vaccines there. In the mountains there were public healing for overweight or weak children, where they went in the summer and there for two months followed a special nutritional treatment and physical exercise. Use of these treatments for various illnesses and recovery did both workers and pensioners. There were also so-called "lutropolitans", with thermal waters, with hotel facilities for differences in treatments and physicotherapeutic treatments of the people of the region. This care was enjoyed by children at all levels of the educational and student process.” So this woman continues “I got married when I was 21. I'm a working man and my second-year student at the polytechnic school. After a year we had our child. I took a year of childbirth leave with full pay. Then they did it three years later, with the last two years with the wages of 70% of the wage. When the license was finished, I returned to the same place and the same job. My husband, a married student, and with a child, was getting an allowance equivalent to a worker's basic wage. As soon as I was born, twice a week, a nurse came to our house, weigh the child and help me in breast - feeding, in the bathroom and in his care. Milk, baby food and diapers were free. All three of us had the right to eat at the dorms free at noon and at night. Our kid, we just made the application, he went to a kindergarten. At the nursery even provided the children’s clothes, three meals a day and care from qualified staff, with regular visits of a pediatrician. In the event of a child’s illness, the mother was allowed to work for eight days, with full pay and the rest of the days 80% of the earnings. Preventive medicine was very developed for all specialties, by letter at home, with a scheduled date and reprimanded if you did not respond to the call, especially in the case of children." He says a lot of things yet, I won't read them for a short time. He says: "I've never felt stress and insecurity because I didn't know, probably we didn't know, what to say unemployment or unpaid work, what to say exploit, what to cool, not to have proper or no medical care and proper education. I had it, I thought it all was self-evident. Today I see it wasn't. We should defend them and not allow the counter-revolution to win and level all the rights of workers and all the conquests of socialism." All this, gentlemen, began 50 years ago in the socialist countries. Capitalism four hundred years of domination considers them side effects, an obstacle to its development. The JRC notes that the impediment to living the working class, the folk family satisfying its modern needs, is this system, its ironic law is the profit, which is ruthless towards the working class and its life. The labour movement will, anyway, make the protection of maternity priority, support for new couples, demanding and organizing the struggle for collective bargaining, with increases in wages, with steady work. Despite all the measures you are taking, it is fighting to abolish the anti-corruption laws, to fight against the new anti-insurance attack, and we welcome the initiatives of the pensioners and unions that are continuing today in the Ministry of Labour, of course, to the Minister, who is justified by the bill, although he could have been there to accept a delegation. In this attack there are new overturns in the insurance benefits of insured persons. Reverses that create the worsening treaty and the demographic problem. The JRC will give all its forces to gigantic the class labor movement, to claim its needs, to limit all these forces that are incapable of being satisfied with the JRC, supporting its proposal for working people's power, which will make factories, boats, all means of production and will lastingly satisfy the modern needs of our people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much. Kyriakos Pierracakis, Minister of State for Digital Governance, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Parliament is now called on to ratify one of the most important government announcements, the birth grant, as part of a broader strategy to combat the demographic problem. The truth is that the demographic problem is indeed too great. As long as you see relevant studies and as long as it starts from the empirical given that for the first time post-war, the population has fallen from 11 million in the 2011 census, to 10 million seventeen thousand today. There are many studies - I have heard Mr Loverdos mentioning some elements - which say that in 2050 there is a prospect of having fallen even below nine million. Demographic is, if you want, the number one national theme and we have to do everything we can to manage this course, to go to the best of the scenarios there are. Politicians such as those provided for in this draft law are absolutely in the right direction and act beneficially. I would like to mention a little more in detail in Article 13 of this bill, in relation to the automation of the child's birth declaration to maternity care, which is part of a wider strategy, that of building a digital state that is simple, fast and effective and thus establishing this new process. I do not think we need to say a lot about the existing procedure. Whoever we're parents, we've experienced her. To date, a child, when born, needs to gather a number of documents, you need to first go to the JEPs, then to the maternity office itself to make a birth certificate, one needs to go to the registry office to write the birth permit in ten days, and then there is a need to make the birth statement to other institutions, for example in the calendar - that is now done automatically, it has not been done before -, AMCA, the father or mother's insurer, and of course also to the providers of benefits. Of all the above stages, all that has been removed, as I mentioned, was the statement in the land register. All the rest is a series of bureaucratic steps which, to date, need to be implemented in such a type of process. Multiple multiple-step queues, very often not even the services in the same municipality. What are we doing today? The birth declaration process begins and ends in the maternity ward. More specifically since the middle of the month, since the end of February, parents will come to the hospital service and after their identification all the supporting documents will be automatically collected from the civil registry or automatically sought electronically. In this way, a birth declaration will be issued, which will be sent by electronic means to the competent registry as pending and the registry will in turn issue, on the basis of these data, the birth permit, which will again be sent to a number of entities, such as in the AMKA register, the AMK register, the bridal register and thus effectively process the AMKA return, the registration in the family portion and will be updated by third registries, such as the AMKA for the fund. This whole process will be handled without the need for actions by the parents, who will be automatically informed either by sms or by e-mail regarding the evolution of the process, with the performance of AMKA, by registering the insurance fund. Of course, if there are any loose ends, they will also be informed of them. There is also an additional stage, which will also be handled electronically. It is also the most correlated with the adoption of the new procedure with the draft law to be passed, the automatic electronic performance of the birth allowance. And this will be done as follows: OPECA will draw the financial data from the parents' ADI in order to verify that the criteria we have set in total are met, as to whether a couple can get a specific allowance or a parent. That is how we create an additional service without adding another line for the citizens. Also, here the update will be made through sms or e-mail. This will gradually be done for most citizens' interactions with the state through the use of digital technologies we will simplify as much procedures as possible. It is the so-called 'life events' and it is perhaps symbolic that we are starting today at birth. Let me close with this thought: one of the main election demands has been codified in the following sentence: 'Build a state'. State of course we do. What we need to do is bring it to 2020. And that's what we're doing. Actions such as this are an important step forward, whether we are talking about digitising the birth declaration, whether we are talking about simplifying the renewal of a driving licence, whether we are talking about a responsible statement, an authorisation, the electronic prescription to be made intact. These are all steps forward. Perhaps on a symbolic level, as I said before, there was no better way to start from this process, the process of a child's birth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, too. Did you see? The Minister said it in five minutes. Mr Dionysios Stamenitis has the floor from New Democracy and beautiful Pella.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the draft law: 'A birth allowance and other provisions' of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is another tangible demonstration of the coordinated implementation of the New Democracy election programme. One of the most important announcements today is implemented by the vote of this particular project. Today, for the first time, we are enacting a birth allowance of EUR 2 000 for every child born from 1-1-2020, and we are dealing with issues that reform and update four more allowances, that of housing, the child, mountainous and disadvantaged areas and the minimum guaranteed income allowance. Ladies and gentlemen, the main reason I have chosen to speak is not the argument in favour of this legislative initiative by the Government, not because it is of little importance, not at all. The initiative of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Minister and the State Secretary in our programming speech and commitments of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis is important. I believe there is no one who can refuse to vote for this bill or object to such a bill. Or, even if he has objections, he should explain to us in an extremely convincing way his objections so that his refusal is not considered to fall within the framework of a sterile opposition. Today I would like to place myself on what we have heard from the SYRIZA Members and the rapporteur during the preparation of the draft law in the Committee on Social Affairs, but we have heard it here too. What did they say? On the basis of the report from the intergroup of Parliament, the factors affecting demographic policy are four: The recovery of the economy, the reduction of unemployment and good jobs, the increase in pay for young people and the development of welfare. So far, we do not disagree, after all, we signed it in 2018. But we need to see what has happened over the last ten years so that we can safely make out for who and what he has done about demographics. So let's get started. In 2012, the Government of New Democracy received a recession of 8.9% and delivered to SYRIZA a 1% growth. SYRIZA received 1% growth and delivered it to 1.5%. Indeed, as the SYRIZA rapporteur argued, 25% of GDP was lost at the time of the crisis. However, in the two and a half years of New Democracy's governance there was a 10% change in the upwards of GDP. In four and a half years of SYRIZA, unfortunately only about 1%. Four and a half years lost. I'm continuing: Underpaid and underpaid. You did raise the minimum wage. The increase, however, had to be made in 2017, as foreseen by the law of the New Democracy that had been passed. And of course problems have arisen with the increase because you have linked it to the employers' contributions. For the abolition of the minimum wage, you have also delayed. Which I would remind you that Kyriakos Mitsotakis was the first opposition in 2018. Another two and a half years lost for the workers. With regard to the reduction of unemployment, we have heard from my colleague that in the first six months, which is the Government of New Democracy, unemployment has increased. Let's see exactly what's happened: in July 2018 on SYRIZA we had 19.1% unemployment. In July 2019, which the New Democracy took over, we had 16.9% unemployment. In September 2018, on SYRIZA, we had 18.8% unemployment and in September 2019 we had 16.8%. In October 2018 on SYRIZA we had 18.6% and in October 2019, now, we had 16.6%. Unemployment is therefore falling now. You spoke of good work and increased pay for young people. Good jobs, however, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, and real wage increases, are achieved by a high-level economy, which you did not have and by attracting investments, which you did not achieve. These create the attraction of new businesses, but after tax reductions and employers' contributions have been reduced. We didn't see any of this in the four and a half years when you were government. We have barely seen the opposite: 12.5 billion new taxes and, of course, an insurance to which income relates with contributions. Finally, you referred to the development of welfare. Is it not social policy to support the family? Isn't it a welfare policy for no child to stay out of a juvenile station? Is it not social policy to increase the tax rate of EUR 1 000 per child, but also to migrate to the low VAT rate of 13% of infantry species? We have told you many times, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, in order to be useful in the country you should first adapt to reality. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy and the current Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis from the days of opposition have raised the improvement of the lives of Greek citizens as the top issue of our national agenda. In fact, they did not hesitate to recognise that the decline in the standard of living, which came as a result of the major economic crisis over the past two decades, increased the problem that had to do with the appearance of over two decades. With courage and responsibility, our resignation has raised this big issue, which we are all discussing today and we all recognise it, but you have so far not taken concrete steps to curb it and reverse it. It is an issue that has been raised for many years in the public debate, but without leading to the necessary action. For us in New Democracy, the issue of fertility is one of the most critical problems we have to deal with effectively. It is, without any doubt, a matter of national survival. Its emergence, therefore, by the New Democracy is accompanied by concrete measures by this government, because any other attitude would be hypocritical. That is why I call on you all to vote together on this important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, too. We continue with the New Democracy and Larissaeus, Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion establishing the birth allowance, let me say, gives me a personal satisfaction. During the previous House, as an intergroup on demographics, we have worked for a year and a half in a close and intensive manner. We have highlighted all aspects of this major national problem by ending up with specific proposals that we did not put in a drawer to have the luck of those 1990s. On the contrary, we have communicated them to all institutions, from the President of the Republic to the Archbishop. We wanted to hit hard the country's risk bell from the demographic stunt. After all, today, there are no longer any longer any longer the ideological distortions that were baptising dangers and conservative obsessions about the conversion of our country into a country of old age. ELSTAT's recent figures leave no room for deceit. In 2018, deaths surpassed births by thirty-four thousand, while the lanes since 2011, when the deaths "headed" open every year at a dramatic rate. Moreover, for a decade, the country has experienced a terrible bleeding in young people who have emigrated because of the great crisis, while those who have remained because of either economic closeness or because of the standards that have prevailed for decades avoid having a family and above all childbirth. The average fertility rate is 1.26, while in order to maintain a stable population it needs at least 2.1. Unfortunately, we must all realize, far from illusions and reassurances, that Greece is dying because there are no young people. In 2050 the calculations refer to two million smaller populations and one to three years old, one to five that are today. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time, the country faces many and serious problems in the economy, social cohesion in migration, in our relations with our aggressive neighbours. But let me point out that the most important of all, what will ultimately judge the course and future of Hellenism, is the demographic problem. From whether our generation can solve it or not, other important issues such as insurance will be decided. I would say, even if it sounds too much, that this objective should be the nation's new great idea. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, loyal to its election commitments, implements the first measures of its programme to reverse the negative tone in demographics, such as the reduction of VAT on infants to 13% from 24%, the abolition of luxury living tax on cars of more than 2,000 cubic metres, the reinforcement of duty for each child and, finally, the birth allowance of EUR 2,000 for each child. Some devalue such subsidised policies. They consider that these do not change the general trends. I think they're only right in part. I would remind you that such an allowance for the third child established by the government of Kostas Karamanlis has had excellent results. The motive for families in dilemma if they had a third child worked positively. I agree, however, that we should not stay on this. For the order of size found the demographics need a colossal coordinated multifactorial effort. As we had seen in the conclusion of the intergroup, and we proposed as a New Democracy, we must go deep, with tax exemptions and incentives, with support for parents and, above all, for women, with a further reduction in the cost of having children. And here I would like to point out that we must give more support to third-party and multi-texts, by reintroducing the benefits of multi-texts in the pre-memorandum cuts and other relief measures for these modern heroes of everyday life, which are literally going against the current. Finally, I would like to remind you that every attempt to increase births is in line with the attempt to suspend Brain Drain. The stay of young people in our country and the return of most who have left is not without the success of the project. Before going down, Mr President, from the Step forward, I would like to point out that it is unfair to criticise the linking of normal school education with the allowance of children and housing, as well as the granting of the minimum guaranteed income. They do not offer services to those who care for their ears by making such criticism. Our aim should be to integrate Roma children or foreigners and this should primarily be done through the educational system. This measure is an indirect pressure on parents who are indifferent to the education of their children and simply write them in school, just to get the benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to congratulate the head of the Ministry of Labour on this legislative initiative that I hope will receive over-party support and I am sure that others will follow in the same direction as the Mitsotakis Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, too. Mr Constantine Bogdanos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill whose main provision is the implementation of one of the few and measured pre-election commitments of the New Democracy, the single child allowance of EUR 2 000. It is a regulation with practical reflection, as it helps Greek families to meet some of the first needs of an infant. But above all, this is a regulation with great symbolic importance, as it marks the fact that this government, the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis rightly recognises demographics as the biggest, most and most dangerous problem for the survival of our country, society and our nation. From the demographic, which was already extremely problematic and has deteriorated sharply in the past decade, in the decades of the economic crisis, it depends almost everything, financial and development prospects, the sustainability of insurance, the country's international position and the possibility of effective defence of our national rights and interests. Let us therefore be honest and at the same time respond to some bitter and malicious, as is appropriate. Obviously, a EUR 2 000 allowance is not going to solve the demographic problem, but it is a measure that clearly has its place in a wider serious strategy. In order to respond to the problem, we must encourage new couples, who want to do so, to create families earlier and this, among other things, means: Firstly, a strong economy where young people will find early jobs that allow them to self-determination by opening their wings from the home. Yes, the tied Greek family, solidarity between generations did keep our society alive in the crisis. But love, family enthusiasm, mutual support between parents, children, grandparents, grandparents, and more or less economic dependence. Secondly, it means the substantial strengthening of technical and vocational education, so that children in this inclination do not lose years and career opportunities by chasing degrees which, let us not hide, do not tell them anything and have no professional impact. Thirdly, ensuring the institutional moral conditions for a better balance between working and family life, i.e. sufficient quality available nursery facilities, safety and quality of life in the cities and villages of our country, quality public school and university. Fourthly, the more effective support for the multitude and the third family. There is still much to be done here and there is still to be done. Fifthly, the overall reintroduction of optimism and perspective for the future of society and the country. So on these axes we move, these axes are consistently served, this is our demographic strategy, whose birth allowance is only a part of it. In conclusion, I should like to refer to the right forecasts, so that this aid only applies to those morally entitled to it and does not act as an incentive to pay back and to alter our country's population composition. The wise provision of the 12-year permanent and legal residence deprives the possibility of exploiting this right policy from illegally entering and living migrants here. Also, connecting the child's allowance to actual schooling and not simply registering the child puts the parents in front of their responsibilities and closes a lot known to all of us "bricks" exploitation of the children themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the so-called conceptual logic of the recent past, against abusive internationalism, which did not often hesitate to hierate the rights and interests of Greek citizens below the foreign populations and illegally entering Greece, we respond with national responsibility, with strategic planning, with seriousness and effectiveness. Our proclaimed goal is to re-establish Greece where new couples will have the opportunity to take the first step of creating a family, where their future and their children can be envisioned with a documented optimism. Ladies and gentlemen, this is ultimately the measure from which the current government will be judged. And that is the measure from which the survival of our nation will be judged. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, too. My colleague only referred to this issue, which is why he has not missed time. Mr. George Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA and beautiful Arcadia.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, social welfare policy and social protection policy, which are one of the pillars of the social state, are not limited and must not be confined to any fragmentary and individual measures, but must be a single and coherent set of combined actions, measures and policies, which are essentially consistent with the terms of political - social welfare and social protection. I will make three general remarks and then go into the individual arrangements of the bill. New Democracy is a neoliberal conservative party, which, as it seems from its announcements and its general policies as government, restores the policies of the memorandums, which ended in August 2018. This is because it never concealed its identity with the memorial policies, which, in fact, its eminent officials adopt, saying that even if they were not there, we should have invented them. At the same time, the New Democracy has tried to hide its monumental face and the direction it wants to give to the Greek economy and society: Strengthening the few and strong and corresponding marginalization of the large social majority. For the first time after four years the Social Welfare Budget is reduced by 400 million euros. The SYRIZA government had received him in the amount of EUR 790 million and delivered him with EUR 3.5 billion. Thus, this draft law proposes and announcing a number of social measures, but fragmented, in order to conceal or invoke the true policy of the governing party. We support these specific positive measures. In particular, the government introduces into the draft law the introduction of the EUR 2 000 birth allowance, a measure which, without doubt, strengthens the family and helps the couple when she has a child and is effectively subjected to many costs. In no case, of course, this allowance cannot be an incentive to create a new couple of families. Two comments on this. First observation. The birth allowance will be granted in two instalments each. All actors and opposition parties stressed that this allowance should be granted on a one-off basis. In addition, it has not been clarified when the second dose will be administered. We therefore vote on Article 2, proposing by amending its one-off payment to the beneficiaries immediately after the child was born. Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased The draft law foresees a permanent and legal stay for foreigners for 12 years in order to receive the birth allowance. This condition excludes a large part of families living legally and permanently in the country, working and taxed here and having a great need to assist at the birth of a child. This regulation runs counter to basic principles of Union law, which dictate uninterrupted access to the social benefits of all those who are legally living in the territory of a Member State. SYRIZA therefore considers that the legal and permanent residence in Greece of the parents of Greek citizens and citizens of other countries who work and are taxed in Greece must be a uniform condition for granting the allowance. Ladies and gentlemen, many colleagues have spoken today about the demographic problem, considering that this is the subject of the bill. However, this is not even in the inscription of the bill - and rightly so - it is not reflected. In any case, no overall solution to the demographic problem of the country is being promoted. This was stressed by the majority of those who took part in the consultation, but also by those who participated in the hearing. The demographic problem can be addressed by the growth of the economy, the reduction of unemployment, the creation of stable full-time jobs, the increase in pay for young people and the promotion of social welfare, according to the report by the Parliament's Intergroup on Population, which the New Democracy has voted on. In this context, a substantial incentive to have a child is maternity leave. Here I would like to stress that we are tabling an amendment to this issue as a SYRIZA because there is a 'grey' zone for fixed-term private-law workers in the public sector, public-law legal persons, private-law entities in the public sector and first and second grades which are not entitled to the OAED six-month grant, which applies to private-law workers in private-sector enterprises and farms. I do not need to stress, because I do not have time, and to underline what economy we received in 2015: an economy that had lost 25% of GDP. And what we delivered: A economy with a growth rate of 1.9% with a growth trend. You promised 4% growth and reduced the prediction to 2.8% just elected. We have also achieved a reduction in unemployment, a return from our part of collective autonomy, an increase in the minimum wage and a abolition of the subordinated. In the opposite, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are amending the conditions for the award of child and housing allowances in order to reduce the beneficiaries of these allowances, who really face the demographic problem by combating the inheritability of our country. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] Only one comment on the social solidarity allowance. The social solidarity allowance appears with the bill to be renamed to a minimum guaranteed income. However, there is a substantial difference. The minimum guaranteed income is limited to an income benefit to provide a minimum income and does not cover the state's full obligations, a social state, aimed at a decent living for its citizens. We had called for the CRL to be included in the Constitution in the process of reviewing the Constitution and the New Democracy rejected it. Its rename is perhaps to forget the 2014 pilot program, which had no effect. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end by saying that with this bill you are trying - I said it at first - to hide your real intentions. Nevertheless, we will vote for the positive measures and call for the amendments that we have tabled, which correct, improve and supplement these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u94	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-one students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Athens Gymnasium. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Duria has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, one of my main demands as a Member of Parliament is to help the Greek family who has been tested in a variety of ways, especially in recent years of the crisis. We all know families with children who find it difficult to get through - children's upbringing costs, in combination with their other obligations to the state, to the tax, to the insurance funds, to bring them to despair - but many new couples who, although they would like to raise their family, are hesitant to do so because their finances do not allow them. The negative demographic trend in recent years is particularly worrying. According to data from the Greek Statistical Authority in Greece, there is a continuous drop in the birth rate. This fall, in fact, reaches levels below the European average. This, then, combined with the fact that more and more people decide to have a child older, resulting in the number of children in most families not exceeding two and, of course, the population of Greece shrinking. I am very pleased that our Government is establishing a birth allowance for the first time to assist the Greek family, of course following the example of Belgium, Luxembourg, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. This allowance of 2,000 euros, which will be granted horizontally for every child born in our country from 1-1-2020, is expected to help many of our fellow citizens and to alleviate our country's great demographic problem. The birth allowance is granted under certain income criteria. These income criteria are formulated to exclude only 1% of income, while special attention is paid to single parents. The allowance is granted even subject to the permanent and legal residence in the country and provided that the applicant or applicant is a Greek citizen, a resident or foreigner, a citizen of a Member State of the European Union, a citizen of a State belonging to the European Economic Area or a citizen of the Swiss Confederation or, finally, a third-country citizen who has already resided 12 years in our country. The allowance will be paid in two instalments of equal amounts, following the submission of a relevant electronic application or digital declaration to the maternity hospital, i.e. the usual bureaucracy in the granting of benefits to date. Particularly important is that this allowance will not be taxed or subject to fees, contributions or any other form of booking. Also, it will not be seized, it will not be offset against any debt. It is an allowance, therefore, that is intended to help the family of the newborn and we must ensure that no one is deprived of this aid for the wrong reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly not panacea for the problems of demographics, but it is a first, important step in the fight against fertility, a measure which is part of a broader policy of strengthening the Greek family and ensuring a more prosperous future for children in our country. In this context, it is, inter alia, important to facilitate access by municipalities which do not have nurseries to the necessary funding and to link grants to adequate school provision for children. With the introduction of the birth allowance, the government proves that the problems and needs of the citizens are being addressed and their daily lives are being helped in practice, taking tangible and self-evident measures to strengthen them, which, unfortunately, no previous government has taken. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u96	Thank you too, my colleague. Mrs Anagnastopoulou from SYRIZA now has the floor and Mrs Biziu from New Democracy should be prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Ignastopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last year the second report - after many years - was drawn up by the Intergroup on Journalism, one which I had the honour of being President. This report was also signed by the Members of the New Democracy, with whom, I must confess, we worked with Mr Charakopoulos in particular - very well. This report is a product of scientific memos, scientific analyses, deposit of entities, etc. We made a condensation in the findings of all this. But when the New Democracy, the Government, is coming today, and it tells us that the EUR 2 000 allowance - which we agree with, and so on. - will solve the demographic problem, then no one has read this report. So I recommend that you read it at all. Firstly,'social welfare' is strong social welfare, it is the first basic measure to tackle demographic reality, which is not the best possible for our country. I'd say it's the worst. What does "social welfare" mean? What the Greek state had not done for too many years and tried to do so by our government from 2015 to 2019. When you are cutting by EUR 400 million the social solidarity allowance, you are cutting the housing allowance, the child allowance, then you cannot compensate for the EUR 2 000 no social benefit. Let us leave it, and the fact that for four and a half years you have troubled society that subsidised policy is a policy of caging in poverty, etc. - let's leave this - because you never had in your strategy what a welfare state means. Scientists came from countries that were faced with a demographic problem and managed to involve the demographic downturn, such as France - scientists came from Sweden too - to tell us how it happened. Therefore, the reduction of allowances is undemocratic and is not compensated for by anything. Secondly, dealing with the child. A society that does have a concern for demographics puts the child, any child. When you put it as a prerequisite, Madam Secretary, the issue of school leakage and make it a criterion for the child's family not to receive an allowance, you do two things. Firstly, you are not facing the major problem of the school leak that went up in the years of the crisis and, secondly, underground and below the table you are not facing the problem of Roma family children. Because that's what it's all about. That's where we meet the biggest leak. And these are Greek citizens, they deserve the allowance, you can't sever it there and go and cut it out like that. But that is where other policies are needed. Mrs. Fotou could speak with hours. It is undemocratic policy and that, not to say anything else. I mean something, because I hear a lot of racist things. I also heard Mr Bogdano saying that in internationalism we were given more importance to children in general rather than to the Greeks. These should not be heard in this Chamber. They must not be heard for a simple reason: the Greek state had no policy on the child. The most important indicator, which should have been very alarming to us, is that for years child poverty has been the highest in Europe, even in periods of great growth, because we had no policy for the child. Well, all that is being heard is from the extreme right and not to be heard. Thirdly, in the report the second major pillar of demographic policy is the harmonisation of family life with a professional life. What does that mean? First of all, we have put it in the report, in the conclusions, and scientists have put it this way, is to strengthen controls by the state of labour relations and working conditions, particularly as regards both women and men for their rights, and so on. What did you do? Anti-democratic policy, you have limited SEA controls. Instead of making this policy stronger, strengthening, you have limited it. Third pillar, which we have learned recently, is school education for gender equality, demographic policy, gender emancipation, women's emancipation, equal rights. It is not 'collapsing the demographics to women'. So what do we do? Education policy. Do you know these thematic weeks? These were road safety and traffic management seminars, which all of our institutions said we are losing at least one generation of roads, gender equality, sexual education, etc. What does the EPA say now? To abolish the thematic week. The Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, the Ministry of Labour agrees, undemographic policy and much more. And one last thing, because I don't have time. I hear about demographic policy and I do not hear one thing, which is here, in the conclusions. The treatment of how we will have an active and healthy ageing generation, the generation of the elderly, who also need enhanced policies, the expansion of "Help at home, expansion of care centres etc. All of this isn't anywhere, and we're talking about demographics like this. So if we want to talk about a demographic policy, we will be happy to talk, but we will now speak on real terms, neither with ideas nor with all that has led to the situation we are in today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, too. Now, Mrs Biziu from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are today called upon to vote in favour of a bill of paramount importance, because it concerns the future and the existence of the Greek nation. It is undeniable and common knowledge that everyone is aware that the biggest problem facing our country as a nation is that of birth. Already since the late 1980s, it has been found that in Greece the modern fertility index has passed its critical level of one and a half children per woman, thus marking the passage to a phase that experts call "low fertility trap", with a significant risk that it will not be able to return above this level for a long time. With the manifestation of the economic crisis, which has been so brutally experienced by our country, which has also brought about a social crisis, there is a steady decline in births. The economic downturn, which is usually associated with job instability, with increased uncertainty and a reduction in real incomes, directly affects family income, which is inextricably related to childcare and is therefore likely to cause significant deferral and reduction in births. Fear of low income, coupled with a large proportion of jobseekers, leads to a postponement of births. Demography is a decisive factor in our future, which we no longer have the luxury to underestimate. The reduction in population in itself is not the only demographic challenge we have to face. It is not only the size of our population that is changing, it changes its structure and composition, since births are less than deaths, so that we have an ageing population, with the known consequences for the quality and quantity of the workforce, the reduction of the competitive power of the working population, the burden of the insurance system and the collapse of our pension system. Undoubtedly, demographic is today one of the great challenges facing the country and very high on the New Democracy agenda. Enhancing births and supporting the family was, is, is and will be our primary goal. This is why a coherent demographic policy is necessary. This draft law is now in progress. The measures introduced aim to reverse the negative phenomenon of ingenuity and to form a modern and targeted demographic policy, which will encourage couples to proceed with childbirth. Economic uncertainty is an inhibiting factor in childbirth. The aim of the 2,000 euro birth allowance, as well as of the other benefits provided for in this bill, i.e. children, housing, minimum guaranteed income and benefit of mountainous disadvantaged areas, is to create a sense of economic stability and security for couples who want to have children. It is very important to stress that there are almost no income criteria for the beneficiaries of the birth allowance, that this is not taxed or subject to reservations, it is not confiscated. Equally important, if not the most important, is the linking of benefits to school children, because at our centre is and should be the child. It is our duty to ensure that each child receives the education in which he has a constitutional right. Education is the most important tool for every citizen, because it is a basic prerequisite for his social, economic and cultural development, but also for our country. The measures at present are not detached, but they are part of a comprehensive policy of support for the family, the couple, the woman who wants to give birth. We have already legislated to reduce VAT on baby products, but above all we have guaranteed accessibility to childcare structures. In particular, the second is crucial for women and men to be able, in other words, to take care of the child, to participate in the labour market. The main aim of our policy is to facilitate the combination of professional and family life, taking into account all lifestyles, as they form within our society. The aim is to balance between working and family life, so as not to prevent the participation of a mother in the labour market and to encourage her development in the labour market. We do not in any way want to reproduce the model of the non-working mother. Moreover, given the reduction in the available workforce, increasing the particularly low employment rates of women is one of the tools to address the consequences of ageing. Women's employment is not negatively related to fertility. Finland, Sweden and Norway are the countries with the lowest difference in employment rates between men and women and at the same time the highest levels of fertility. The income of women is now positively linked to fertility, which has also been confirmed by Greek data over the last decade. During the crisis women who increased their fertility were the working women over thirty-five years old. We want the woman who wants to become a mother not to be discouraged because of economic insecurity or to hesitate to fear that childcare will cut her off from the labour market. As a woman I am proud of this bill and also of the overall plan to support motherhood and woman, prepared by our Government and implements a step forward, because this is a package that aims to remove the obstacles that the woman who wants to become a mother finds herself. It's a bill both substantial and symbolic. Of course, financial support is important. But what excitements me is symbolism. We support the mother, the woman, the worker. We want the Greek woman to have the opportunity to achieve everything she dreams about: motherhood, family and professional recognition. The least we can do today, ladies and gentlemen, is to give the Greek mother a vote of confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs now has the floor, Mr Ioannis Vroutz, for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of representing the government through the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to recommend with the State Secretary, Mrs Michaelidou, today, before the National Representation, a bill which has two very strong symbolisms. The first symbolism has to do with the great national problem of our country, which the vast majority of Members have seen - it is a common finding for everyone - and it translates into the fact that Greece is unfortunately dying the great national issue for our country is the ageing of the population. The second strong symbolism has to do with another pre-election commitment by the Government of New Democracy, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis as leader of the opposition officer, which is now taking place. We had promised that when and whenever we become government, exactly next year, payment of this allowance will begin. I would like to make it clear, however, that there have been too many inaccurate and irresponsible things in this House, particularly on the SYRIZA side, because we have never said that this intervention, with this symbolic intervention of EUR 2 000 for every birth, every child, in Greece, will solve the demographic problem. Nobody said that, nor did he claim it. We have said, however, that there is a serious problem which is common ground for everyone. I am sorry to see that the SYRIZA side, when it sees the problem while it says that it will vote on the measure, is accompanied by a series of asterisks. Really, are you giving us up for demographic policy? Five years he ruled the place! What did you do? And beyond that, I heard incredible inaccuracies, that we supposedly reduced social benefits, destroyed the social state, increased unemployment, wages fell. When did this happen? In the six months we're government? Even a single euro has not been reduced by the social state. All benefits have been maintained and this is not a rhetorical approach. It was confirmed by our budget that was tabled and voted on a month ago, here in Parliament. I come to the question of unemployment. We are told that unemployment has grown. Are you returning to the old SYRIZA who said here in the House things that were not linked to the scientific approach? Ladies and gentlemen, unemployment is only measured by an indicator. I would remind the House, however, that before 2015 SYRIZA was never a scientific approach to unemployment. The description I will make is to avoid it in the future and it is also a recommendation to SYRIZA not to return to the old demagogic SYRIZA. Prior to 2015, SYRIZA measured unemployment at the rates given by the UNHCR. He was talking about 35% of unemployment, 36% of unemployment. He never adopted the official index that all Europe accepts, not only in Greece, in all the countries of the European Union, in ELSTAT. Since becoming a government, it began to discover the tools of science, such as "ERGANI" - which it called "Brutsi Montazier" all along the previous period - and discovered ELSTAT, which actually showed a degression in unemployment that began in 2013 - take care - and not accidentally because, while we had reached peaking, our coherent policies and increased the fine for undeclared work -10,500 euros - and the turn of the economy into growth and, at the same time, employment policies have now begun to grow. And reforms are not a button that you press and become automated the next day. They need time to adjust. That is why unemployment began to deviate and continues to deviate until today. I read the percentages so that we don't forget the reality we live in. July 2018: unemployment 19.1% - July 2019 - with New Democracy - unemployment 17%. August 2018: unemployment 18.9% - August 2019 - with New Democracy - unemployment 16.9%. September 2018: unemployment 18.8% - September 2019 - with New Democracy - unemployment 16.8. October 2018: unemployment 18.5% - October 2019 - with New Democracy - unemployment 16.6%. Where has unemployment increased? Where did you see that? And where did you see the indicators show that wages are falling? Where did you get these? Again, do you discover that fake, virtual SYRIZA, that came here saying a series of fairy tales and misled the world and split society? That's over. Elections took place. Fortunately Greece was relieved of that war climate, the politique that divided society that nobody heard. Today the placements made by a Step of the House - each one of course chooses his own way - will be in a scientific, careful way that will be proved. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the government is implementing a measure which we do not say solves demographics. It is a cost of EUR 173 million. That's what we've been able to do, that's what we're giving. It was just our promise. Is the problem solved? The answer is no. But we started with a series of policies, not just that. I read: Increase the tax rate for every child. Is it a measure that helps deal with the problem? Did the government of Mr. Mitsotakis do it? Yes, we did! You didn't do it. Reduction of VAT on infants. Is that a positive measure? Of course it is. Did this government do it? Yeah. SYRIZA didn't do it. And you're criticizing us about that? Childbirth allowance, what we're talking about here today. Removal of luxury tax for cars in laundry. Is it a positive measure? Of course it is. You didn't. You've been ruling five years. The 180-euro allowance for there to be no child outside the nursery. Is this an announcement, which now runs the Ministry of Labour in 2020? Yes, it is. You didn't do it. Applicability of two-year pre-school education. SYRIZA merely predicted it, did not ensure its implementation. Last, the linking of allowances with a real student at school and here is a little conversation. I have heard the positions of the SYRIZA MPs criticise us for linking the benefits supposedly to reduce them. Be careful, reduce them because we connect school mobility and the child's school with the benefits. Yeah, that's right! Ladies and gentlemen, there are families who use children, they use them as a presumption to get the money in and they do not get them to attend compulsory education. And the state has a duty to protect these children! For us it is a policy in favour of children and we are opposed to SYRIZA! What does SYRIZA say? Gimme the children's benefits indiscriminately. Don't evaluate if they go to school to be educated. Leave the kids to the alienation, unorthodox. Give me the allowance! Share them! That's where we disagree. Of course! Other policy is SYRIZA, New Democracy. We protect the children of any category. Children have to pass compulsory education definitely, and it was a policy that we did not catch up with in 2014 when we were building and planning the modern social state. We are talking about this, ladies and gentlemen, the social state in our country has suffered for decades. This is where we agree. For decades a social state has been built, each ministry has made its own strategy and policy, a fragmented social policy system that overlap political social interventions without knowing where the money is going. In 2012, when this was measured by the Ministry of Labour, we saw that we had one of the highest - although we were during the crisis - levels of intervention as a percentage of GDP across Europe. Inside the crisis! Nevertheless, our effectiveness as a social state for poverty was much less than moderate. Why? Because the money was being given and they didn't get any place. They went in the wrong direction because of the fragmented social state. And then, indeed - because here we have to tell the truth - in 2012-2014 we built in the Ministry of Labour - Vassilis Kegeroglou State Secretary, in politics, you must restore the truth, you must tell the reality - by PASOK coexistence, we have built the modern social state policies. Who were they? Minimum guaranteed income. We were the last country in Europe to build this basic pillar of minimum guaranteed income. Today we also restore historical truth with the reintroduction of his name, not with the SYRIZA's dyes, who tried to root out from the memory of the Greeks who brought this modern policy. We're not SYRIZA, and we'll see you at the insurance company that'll be here soon. Secondly, with regard to the policy on 'A21', did we not finance modern policy to strengthen the first child and the second? We did so, the so-called 'A21'. SYRIZA adopted it, kept it. I would remind you, however, that when we had brought the minimum guaranteed income together with Kegeroglu to the House, on behalf of SYRIZA there were cries for reaction. 'Poverty trap' was said by Mrs Fotio, who is present today. He called it a 'poverty trap'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u102	That's right. We pulled people out of poverty, out of hunger.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u103	In any case, today we can say that Greece has modern social policies, has policies that are in line with the rest of Europe. I must, however, put forward one last point, which I consider to be particularly important for the issue of demographics and the policies that we need to develop. Ms. Biziu just before she told some real truths about women, and there she focuses on the biggest problem of demographics. Yes, you are absolutely right, Mr Biziu, that woman's anxiety about joining the labour market creates a very serious problem and is one of the main inhibitors. I would therefore like to inform the Greek Parliament that the resources that we will manage in the next period - funding from Europe from 2021 to 2027, listen to - are EUR 5.6 billion for the European Social Fund. These resources will come to the Ministry of Labour to draw up the policies of tomorrow and the future for the country. The two main problems that the country is facing at the moment at the labour market level and the prospects for women - listen to why it is interesting - are: First, Greece has one of the highest indicators - perhaps the highest indicator - in Europe of scientific training for its human resources, which eventually turns backwards through the escape - undiscovered jobs in Greece - abroad. Secondly, it has the two worst performances and indicators in Europe, one, the skills of human resources and two, the participation of women in the labour market. It has the two lowest indicators in Europe. What does that mean? It is a light light that we have a road to go, just one way, to make use of the EUR 5.6 billion, the present government, tomorrow's governments, the development of a central policy by Greece in two directions. One is to incorporate more women into the labour market - a critical indicator, a very important indicator - money is available and we need to use it with specific targeted policies and, secondly, skills strategies on human resources, young people who, unfortunately, are absent from skills and are now visible on the labour market. There are companies which, although unemployment is at 16.6% today, are looking for workers and do not find skilled workers in what this company requires. So we have to take this seriously. Greece is moving forward, Greece hopes, Greece is back on its feet, and we are all united with responsibility and realism to deal with our major problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, too, Minister. Mrs Euthymou from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, a year ago Kyriakos Mitsotakis, with his speech at the 12th conference of the New Democracy, chose to look at the future and announced on the frontline of the New Democracy's priorities the support of the family by introducing a 2000 euro allowance to the new families, for every new child born in Greece. Today we're doing it. It is a very important piece of legislation, because it transmits a double message. Firstly, it is an important initiative to adopt a policy to tackle the demographic problem for the first time. Our government is facing this problem seriously, responsiblely and above all. I recognise that there may have been the intention of the SYRIZA government to make efforts in this direction, but she lacked one key element, she had no plan, and I will prove it immediately thereafter. On the side of SYRIZA, twice during the debate of the bill in the committee, he invoked the conclusion of the intergroup committee of Parliament for the 2018 demographics signed by the New Democracy, which records what demographic policy should be. Four factors are therefore mentioned: firstly, recovery of the economy; secondly, reduction of unemployment and good jobs; thirdly, increase in pay for young people; and fourthly, development of welfare. What have we done about it? We voted for a development law where, since its implementation, many prospects are created for the creation of new jobs well-paid in a sustainable way, we have reduced HPAI and voted for the tax bill, where a significant breath has been given to households and professionals, including the reduction of VAT on infants, we have reduced insurance contributions since the summer of 2020. And we have also done something extremely important for social policy: we have taken the opportunity of constitutional revision and have, on our own initiative, for the minimum guaranteed income, which you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, could do, but rather your social sensitivity has a ceiling. And the second message behind this legislative initiative is that government policy is being pursued in a social context. Benefits and benefits are one of the most substantial interventions by the State against social inequalities. And we recognize that and we do it. The special provisions of the bill have been mentioned by the Minister of State and the Minister and many of his fellow Members, and that is why I am not referring in particular to them. But what the State Secretary has said is that to combat and combat the demographic problem everyone needs to agree. I too, in this context, would like to present my views as a mother of two children - and indeed of a newborn just five months - and, at the same time, as a working mother, a fighting lawyer specialising in labour and insurance law. In addition to what all my colleagues have said about the demographic problem, in Greece, according to data from the "DIANEOSIS" survey, there is also one of the largest first birth rates among mothers over 40 years of age in Europe. That is why it is important to move towards the abolition of discrimination policies between the two sexes, leading the Greek women to the conclusion that it is difficult to combine employment with motherhood. The Greek women have the lowest share in the labour market in the European Union, after the Italians. Enhancing women's access to the labour market and promoting gender equality and work is essential. After all, this family policy has been implemented in Sweden with great success. We can adopt it, Minister and Minister, because it does not cost much. We also need to ensure that a stronger and flexible framework of maternity leave is developed in the new social context in all areas of work of women, but in particular in the private sector, but also in women's free professions, because they are not entitled to one day's leave, with measures to facilitate the exercise of their profession. Extremely successful in France is the measure of granting flexible leave for parents - mother or father - which can reach three years at a very small financial cost. And it is a wishful task, when it is found, to do so as well. An important initiative will also be the introduction of new structures such as the institution of assistant mothers, trained women who guard four to five children at home. At the same time, the creation of accessible and accessible childcare and education services should also be strengthened. And I am very pleased that in Article 21 of this bill we are giving the possibility of financing municipalities which do not operate parts of childcare and childcare in order to establish their respective departments and meet their needs. At this point I would like to ask what measures the Ministry is going to take to make full use of this funding. Because, with this important provision, we are aiming, not only at increasing the existing structures, but also at creating new housing places, new day-care facilities, which is why we are contributing to the integration and reintegration of women into the labour market. To conclude, therefore, this bill strengthens childbirth and brings about a hopeful message from the government's priorities and support for the Greek family with a substantial, social and exemplary policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u106	Mr Vecchi has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue we are discussing here today is, in general terms, a major national issue. It is well known that one of the most important problems of modern Greek society is the phenomenon of infertility. Because of the economic recession in the last decade, the birth rate in Greece has been among the lowest in Europe. The rate of ageing of the population is expected to accelerate over the next few decades, with an additional burden - among other things - on the economy, the insurance system and the national health system. It is worth mentioning the data of the Hellenic Statistical Authority for 2017, where there has been a negative record of births in relation to deaths, 90,000 births, which are translated into a 4.7% reduction compared to previous years. The intensity of this phenomenon is, of course, due to the consequences of the negative migration in recent years, particularly with regard to the productive population of the country, but also to the lack of effective and consistent policies to address the problem. The draft law, ladies and gentlemen, under discussion, comes as a response to the inertia so far, with regard to the adoption of substantial measures to deal with infertility, while at the same time a good principle of a more general intentional welfare policy of the government. It comes as a measure of strengthening the country's modern demographic policy, while strengthening family and social cohesion, which has been so severely affected in recent years. It is worth stressing that, with regard to the conditions governing the grant of this allowance, the social and income criteria chosen move in a perfectly reasonable context on the basis of the equivalent family income, counting as beneficiaries - data and conditions - and the citizens of third countries legally resident in the country. Subsequently, the amount of this irreversible and, of course, duty-free grant of EUR 2 000 in part, if we look in proportion to the sums envisaged in this case in other European countries, with clearly fewer wounds in their national economy, we see that this is a respectable amount that is capable of helping every new family at its beginning for the first period of child rearing. Of course, I do not mean that this sum alone can remove any deeply-rooted concerns that exist in the consciousness of young people and have an impact in the decision on childbirth. This financial aid must be seen as part of a more comprehensive development policy for the government's programme, which is now essentially for young people, with long-term rather than short-term results, such as for every child, the grant of the housing allowance, on condition of course of compulsory childcare for children in education - this is done for reasons of reducing the phenomenon of school abstention and the creation of an incentive for parents to take more care for the education of their children - the guarantee of minimum guaranteed income, the reduction of VAT on infants and food, the use of infrastructure for the creation of more day-care facilities, the EUR 180 for each child in order to be able to go to nurseries. In conclusion, I would like to stress that drawing up a good and systematic demographic policy for the country from now on is one of the primary obligations of the modern state. We must motivate the new generation so that it can vision and create in our country. We must motivate home to all the young people who have chosen to leave as the only solution for the development and creation of a family. This bill in particular, but also the government's cumulative development policy, will undoubtedly lead to the improvement of the demographic problem. In conclusion, I would like to say that, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population, you need to understand two simple things: firstly, social policy is not your exclusive prerogative, and secondly, ladies and gentlemen, you did not come from political virginity. That's what you could tell us before you rule the country. But unfortunately for the country and for the Greeks you did and did show that you understood the great sensitivity you had, by cutting off the CSCE, by increasing indirect and direct taxes, by increasing insurance contributions, by reducing pensions, by starting the auctions and many more. Finally - would someone say - how beautiful life is when you can make irresponsible and unresponsible criticism? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u108	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mrs Karasarlidou from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today in this Chamber all the political wings - each and every one of us - I think we agree on two things. The first is that we agree that we have a serious demographic problem in our country, and the second is that we need to take steps to resolve it, which the SYRIZA government had started and certainly did not have time to complete. However, the diagnosis of the causes will depend on what exactly we need to take and the difficult and disagreement begins here. The difficult and disagreements are beginning because they involve ideologies and interests directly or indirectly. The issue of fertility concerns the whole of the Western world and in our country it appeared before the economic crisis. However, during the memoranda, it has deteriorated - I would say - appallingly. Therefore, the problem is the creation of the policy pursued by the parties that ruled the country by 2015, that is, the New Democracy and KINAL, which not only gave young people no incentive, but we saw the phenomenon of Brain drain taking explosive proportions, the unemployment among young people exceeding 60%, the organic Greek inspiration of a under-privileged wage, which I would say was punishable for young people and young people in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, in January 2015 when SYRIZA took over the country's governance, all the money that was given for innovation policy in the country was EUR 789 million, i.e. 0.4% of GDP, when the European average was 4% of GDP, which is ten times lower than the European average. This was because of the dominant neoliberal perception of the then coexistence that benefits undermine growth, that they are counterproductive, that they are anti-national, that they create lazy and various other such arguments. Against all of this and despite the suffocating framework in budgetary matters, the SYRIZA government, with the main priority of supporting the weaker social and economic strata, managed to increase the amount allocated to all prosperous policies to 3,5 billion euros and from 0.4% to 2% of GDP. In other words, it has given citizens the elementary and part of their lost dignity in circumstances of exceptional budgetary crisis and closeness. We have created new jobs, we have increased the minimum wage, we have abolished the shameful subjugated, and so a small, minimal breath was given to both the market and small and medium-sized enterprises, because the EUR 3.5 billion was feeding the domestic market, namely productive and commercial small and medium-sized enterprises. And there is no more proof of what I am saying from the fall of the turnover that we have seen and which has reached 25% in the market with this year's holidays, because the reduction in the social dividend has ultimately been removed from the market, and instead of taking conclusions from it and changing the question of your policy - as you are doing, even late, with the abolition and re-establishment of the Ministry of Migration Policy, where you have recognized your mistake - you continue in the 2020 budget as well. You have brought cuts, by 400 million in the welfare sector, which will also have an impact on the market. You are cutting by EUR 139 million child allowances, by EUR 53 million the rental allowance, mainly for young people, by 30 million for school meals, for children and young parents and by EUR 173 million for disability benefits. Furthermore, Madam Secretary, you will bring in - in the next few days in the House regulation, in order to "cut" the positions of the public sector, to pensioners who will of course always be neo-democratic, who will also maintain their pensions. But you are undermining the return of young people to the country, undermining the creation of a family by young people and of course undermining the birth of children. But you are also undermining the insurance system and the insurance funds, giving financial incentives to pensioners to work, since their pension will now be reduced by only 30% and not 70%, as is currently the case. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, in order to start counting the demographic problem, an integrated programme with scientific and national criteria and not customer and micro-groups is needed. There is the Commission's conclusion for the 2018 demographic report. A conclusion you voted on, too. What's changed since then? You're actually undermining it. Why do you not take into account successful examples of other European countries, such as Sweden, which, with its measures, will also have the fastest increase in births in history. We were told by our colleagues at the meeting of our committee. Colleagues of the New Democracy, do not prosecute with your policy and other young people from the country, do not degrade the degrees of public universities, do not care about the struggle that these young people have given and do not underestimate their anxiety. Young people are the great, the huge wealth of our country, the young people are the only and the most invincible property for every people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u110	Mrs. Lykoule from the Change Movement has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, we have said this several times since this morning, and I hear it kept saying this in a repetition which reminds me that the country is ageing. The young people born are fewer than those who leave life and those who come to us and emigrate are fewer than those who leave us and go elsewhere. Of course, there is the statistic and the figures that are relentless and say that in a few years' time our population will have about 12.5% reduction. Finally, we have an existential problem in Greece. Our political system is what, in fact, it is seriously ill. Our democracy also has its own existential theme. And our big problem is that we can't predict, we can't plan, we can't predict in time. That is to say, in ten years' time, we cannot talk ten years before we talk, take action, even though we know that with absolute certainty it will happen. We are even aware of the environment in which everyone lives that, unfortunately, the acquisition of a child has become a privilege for the few and, unfortunately, this is not only about the years of the crisis in Greece, but for some time now, about the memorial Greece. It is the economic downturn that still exists - good for fireworks, but let us hit a little on the earth - as well as the increased labour uncertainty, which contribute dramatically to inferitality. The economic crisis has been hiding all this time and a relentless fact that I felt the obligation as a Member of Parliament, as a woman, but also as a mother, to present it to the Greek Parliament, as many colleagues of course have done. The double role that always refers to and even to many laurels is perhaps for Greece many times forbidden. The role of the worker and the mother at the same time. Pregnancy, predation and maternity are still concepts with a negative sign for the workplace. Bad lies. And as long as some privileges exist in the public sector, what happens between us is what we know, but we need to have the courage and say it - in the private sector, we all know very well from the partisans in Jerusalem. Most women hide it, many give a very small dimension to the fact, others accept formulas, but in fact they are returning immediately after giving birth to work, and if that is not really a child's incentive, Madam Secretary, what can it be? That's it and it's too much. And it is the common secret, then, that the same inadequate laws on the protection of pregnancy and maternity are constantly violated. So they fear to dare to say what life is a real gift. Bringing a man into the world and being able to defend your right to raise him. And that's what you see as a personal example of a self-employed mother. The dramatic elements, in relation to the dramatic past, but also our dramatic future presented by the rapporteurs, I will not go along with them, will only say that everything has been said and, unfortunately, I will say that there is more to do. Some aspects of the event were therefore extinguished. Unfortunately, the report of the intergroup on demographics, which I read with great interest, and which reminds me that it was made on a proposal from the President of the Change Movement of Ms. Fofi Gennimatas in mid-2017, it was revealing. We all know what happens to us, and the rapporteurs said in 2035, when the population of Greece, if we do not take the minimum measures, will be reduced by 1.4 million people. What should you, first of all, do, are you in power now and in government. You should put your sleeves up, Madam Secretary, and of course, not only with the findings and institutional fireworks, but also with the rest of them - as you have already shown, I am telling you - because Greece cannot continue to make its way in the last positions in the European Union, in relation to the expenditure on family benefits. I saw the Minister before in his intervention, well all this for internal consumption, but you know when we go a little further and beyond, the reason we take him once, we don't usually get second, than I notice. Of course, I want to say one more thing. The EUR 2 000 for a new couple is indeed a gift, but not a motive. It's a measure, a provision, but it's not politics. The EUR 2 000 are integrated into an overall demographic policy, a national policy that you do not bring. You are bringing in a fragmentary policy which, unfortunately, we say with good faith, is a good one, but it is not enough. We're the ones talking about. The Change Movement in its amendment proposed that our rapporteur and our parliamentary representative today stressed with particular emphasis, in addition to the EUR 2 000 allowance and all other measures, I repeat, as a special secretariat for demographic policy, but above all the drafting of the national demographic plan. Call the parties and the parties. You have nothing to fear. You are more conservative than we are, but you can open up your horizons and we can light on some aspects of dried-up measures that we have already implemented in our times, because our pro-active policy, as you can see, cannot be overcome by your own side, nor by anyone. The organized welfare system was a system in which PASOK has passed the tests successfully. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not be fooled. No new couple thinks only of a child’s birth expenses. He's thinking about the world that his child brings. He thinks of his course in life, his education in a system of not only tolerance, but also his encouragement of misconduct, his health in a degraded health system that lacks stitches and cotton. He thinks about his employment in an anxiocratic and covetous system. So our country and our democracy, unfortunately, as I said, have these existential problems to solve. Let us not today pretend to be unscrupulous or proud of the 2,000 euros that is a voyage that we fly to the new generation when most of our children, not only the family, are not thinking, but they have taken the road to economic migration without even going back and looking at us. We're begging for a glance, but unfortunately I understand they don't look behind them. Not because they've taken too long forward, but because they don't. And at least that's a very big wound to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that from the top Western theories they are attending our meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the "ELEIGERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-three students and students and three teachers from the 6th Kalamata High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, our country is faced with a dramatic arithmetic overthrow, which is found in the downturn in births, the increase in deaths and illegal immigration. Greece's demographic problem is a major national issue. Critical national issues are not solved by providing a benefit. It requires a stable and uniform social policy to support young parents, motherhood and Greeks - I stress - families. Because through this draft law, not only do you not support the Greek family, but you are also suppressing it. How long will there be a Greek family when with bills such as this you promote the gradual alteration of our nation by supporting a multitude of foreigners? How do you respect the Greeks? The problem needs to be addressed in a responsible manner. If you consider that only one allowance will increase births, you are mistaken. The Greeks are falling, getting older and the population is being devastated. The factors that have led Greece to this dead end are well known. Unemployment in young people, employment in a difficult environment, with ruthless hours, overtaxation, lack of social policy, lead to an increase in birth and migration. Researchers say family fertility and support policies should aim firstly at social and economic active protection for families, secondly at harmonising family and working life and thirdly at supporting motherhood and creating a positive environment for family life. The indicators are indicative of the situation and its criticality. The evidence is shocking. To stop the collapse, drastic measures are needed, not fireworks. Economic policy needs to be developed to help and encourage Greeks to create families. Why should we not overlook the critical area of national security which is also affected by birth reductions? How is the continuity of the indigenous population ensured when you provide such incentives for every child born in Greece, as described in the bill? How much longer will Greece be marked? Why can't we just separate those families who have Greek citizenship? Do you have any concern about demographic and national alteration or all you want to do is increase indicators indiscriminately and without ethnic criteria? You are trying to integrate and integrate illegal immigrants in order to cope with the demographic crisis. You ask us to ask ourselves: Who is ultimately facing a problem of infertility? Do you forget that within the Greek Parliament we must legislate with the Greek citizens in mind? The nightmare of demographic and ingenuity will not end with an allowance, which will not even be granted in instalments. Do you know how much it costs, beyond the birth of a child, to raise him or to ignore the reality of new couples? Support for the family requires length and care for its upbringing. The Greek solution is clear. Without a national strategy, concrete measures and costly programmes, years and critical problems are not tackled. It is our duty to support the Greek family in every way. Unfortunately, however, you degrade it and break it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, my colleague. Now Mr Michaelides from SYRIZA has the floor and Mrs Papanatsiou will be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of a allowance such as this birth is undoubtedly a positive measure. However, its promotion as a basic measure for the exercise of demographic policy, the restrictions imposed on the potential beneficiaries, and the financing of the measure through the reduction of other benefits, are significantly assimilating the positive burden of the measure so that we cannot talk about social policy with the essential importance of the concept. I am starting with the broader issue of demographic policy, to which many colleagues have referred. We must be aware that demographic policy includes a wide range of measures which are obviously not exhausted in financial aid. Previously, the Minister has referred to what we, on our own behalf, have done. I would like to point out to him that, first of all, an important step has been taken to draw up such a policy, which has never been specific until then. In other words, we set up the intergroup committee to which I have already referred, the chairman of the Committee on Population, whose detailed report was adopted by Parliament about a year ago and by a large majority. Among the policy proposals contained in this report are employment policies, childcare infrastructures, allowances, housing policy, the social inclusion of immigrants and the recovery of Brain Drain. What have we done specifically in this direction? We've raised the minimum wage. We have reduced the breaches of labour law by strengthening the EIA. We increased the budget for the child benefit by 450 million during our term of office. For the first time, we established the housing allowance for two hundred and fifty thousand families and doubled positions in public nurseries, focusing on working mothers. This is a first, but important step towards supporting families and workers, especially women. The liberal burden of the New Democracy Government, which is reflected in the anti-corruption measures it has already taken, is incompatible with the demands of a demographic policy focusing on the worker. Instead of another argument, I will quote the conclusions of a specialized scientific body, the Laboratory of Demographic and Social Analysiss of the University of Thessaly. Acknowledges from the New Democracy about the birth allowance that it notes in December last year that: ‘These measures are therefore not expected to lead to an increase in the number of children, if they do not radically change the non-preferential for having children, environment, through a targeted demographic policy combined with an effective social policy: improving labour market conditions, restoring the confidence of young people in the future and the lifting of racial discrimination’. I come to the question of the beneficiaries of the birth allowance. The 12-year-old condition in the country, in order to receive the birth allowance, excludes a large proportion of immigrants and refugees. This is a period of time which gives the measure the unacceptable logic 'only for Greeks', which cannot be placed in a democratic society. I would like to remind you that in the report by the Intergroup on Population, which the New Democracy has voted on, among other policy proposals, it says: 'Institutional shielding and positive measures for the protection of migrants, migrants and refugees from multiple discrimination in labour, education and public services'. The 12-year-old criterion directly violates this policy. Finally, it is the issue of reducing, in essence, other allowances in order to finance the birth allowance. I would like to point out that you are adopting two indicative mechanisms of your deeply conservative ideology, gentlemen of the New Democracy, in order to curtail other benefits. You carry the condition of the 12-year stay of immigrants in order to receive the benefits of child and housing, while, as you know, as you know, the condition was that of five-year stay for all, Greek citizens, refugees and migrants. In addition to the discriminatory nature of this provision, it seems to be contrary to Community directives. The second cut-off mechanism provided for in the bill is that the children of a family will not lose a year in school as a condition for payment of children's and home allowances, as well as social solidarity income. The very outrageous thing is that this is being projected by the government as a measure of dealing with the student leak. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. If that were your purpose, because you did not maintain our forecast, which allowed for a more flexible and immediate treatment of non-schooling through the'my school' programme, i.e. monitoring through the'my school' programme, but without punishing families. According to the special reports of the Institute of Education Policy, the student leak in primary and high school is more intense in the Xanthi, West Attica and Rhodope Prefectures. Obviously, the presence of groups such as the Muslim minority and the Roma in these areas is directly linked to this fact. In conclusion, therefore, you seek to cut benefits with victims of children and families from the weakest charges of Greek citizens and migrants living for years in the country, in order to fund the new allowance in the logic "only for Greeks". I fear that you have not learned from the case of immigration - refugee - that this logic, not least, has very close legs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u116	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mrs Papanatsiou will now speak and then Mr Lentaridis will be speaking from New Democracy. Mrs. Papanatsiou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you have tabled this bill following other interventions which interact with each other. I will try to highlight our overall difference in the approach to the issue. Inequality is reinforced through policies that favour having or, to say it better, by policies, which not only support vulnerable groups and low incomes, but also remove resources from their support policies. The tax bill you voted for gave from 2 to 20 euros a month to pensioners and employees. They saw it yesterday in payments this month. The budget has given you over half the 2020 budget area to reduce taxes on businesses. At the same time, you have deprived some 2.5 billion of potential reductions in the low and medium-sized sectors by not using the 37 billion-dollar account that we inherited for the reduction of surpluses, which you have never discussed with the institutions. You set a growth target at 2.8%. But you don't talk about an increase in wages twice as promised, and the Minister of Finance now states that any increase was covered by that of SYRIZA. At the same time, the new insurance returns the unjust system of insurance contributions to self-employed persons. A free professional who makes 70,000 euros will pay the same as one who makes 7,000 euros. Remove the 13th pension again. You replace the already existing SYRIZA provision with a general reference for a total amount of 0.5% in the social budget for various social security and welfare policies. How will you proceed with this provision with reduced expenditure on pension and transfers to the funds? Who are you kidding? In addition, your employment relations policy has already begun to bear negative fruit, as December 2019 was the worst of the last six years with the loss of three thousand seven hundred jobs. If you were really interested in inheriting and supporting the new couples and the child, you should have reviewed aspects of your entire project. You cannot think that you will cover the income inequalities that you are strengthening with your policies, with a mere allowance. I would remind you of last year's report from the Parliament's intergroup on demographics, adopted by you too. The prerequisites for intervention in demographics are the recovery of the economy, the reduction of unemployment and good jobs for all, the increase in pay for young people and the development of welfare. Which one of these areas do you support your plan? The general idea behind the support of the child must be holistic and relate to a set of interventions. An important treaty that I tried to demonstrate above is a sense of citizens' security. To feel social security, young people and young people should be able to plan their future. Here traditionally lacks your resignation. You distort this concept, identifying it in every form of "Exarcheia" that you make. However, there is also the security offered by stable and permanent employment, access to free and public education and health. You cannot plan to strengthen couples, protect the child and infertileness individually and detached from the whole of your neoliberal policy. There is a need for structural intervention to strengthen incomes and reduce inequalities. But we know that this is not your priority. In 2015-2019 you deserved the attempt to reconstruct the social state and you described it as an impulse. In 2015, we received the index of unequal distribution of income to 34.2% and the first law we passed on the humanitarian crisis was favoured by over four hundred thousand fellow citizens with food, with electricity subsidies etc. In 2016 we voted for free medical care. Since 2017, we have implemented the CRL with over six hundred fifty thousand beneficiaries. You are now renamed the CRL to “minimum guaranteed income” by direct reference to the failed pilot project of 2014. You're trying to erase from the people's memory who created the CRL. Follow SYRIZA's policy line here as well. On the contrary, this bill is supposed to provide 123m euros to deal with demographics, but magically you limit the potential beneficiaries of the child's and housing allowance and removes 200m from last year. SYRIZA introduced in 2018 in a uniform and fair manner the child allowance, doubled almost the budget received from EUR 650 million to EUR 1.1 billion and increased the children to one million five hundred and five thousand. In the crisis we increased the welfare budget from 790 million to 3.5 billion. Since this 1,4 billion was involved in strengthening policies for the child, 1,1 billion for child benefit in a million sixty thousand children, 270 million for positions in nurseries, 71 million daily hot meals in primary schools. This should be added to 300 million of the housing allowance for sixty - seven thousand. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Madam President, may I finish. In addition, cut off the child’s and roof benefits if one of the family’s children repeats the order because of absenteeism. Finally, introduce more unfavourable criteria for immigrants. You provide in the draft law for the 12-year stay in the country for any beneficiaries of the allowance. On the substance, this provision excludes immigrants legally resident in the country from social benefits addressed to the population as a whole. It is thus in breach of the European acquis and European Union directives on equal treatment for holders of uniform residence permits with nationals of the Member State in which they reside. Here I must point out that for several categories of third country citizens it is sufficient to prove permanent production in the country for seven consecutive years to apply for naturalisation. Now, with this draft law, these citizens are asked to prove twice as many years of residence for an allowance. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the direction of the government's policies is spectacular to the upper pillars and there is a risk of increased inequalities. This will be a great step backwards in the effort we made in the past five years. The OECD in its 2014 study on our country reported that the income gap has negative effects on growth, since the expanding gap between rich and poor simply conceals the reduction of incomes for all outside the rich. Unfortunately, that's where we're headed again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, too. Mr Leonardis has the floor now from New Democracy. To prepare Mr. Kotsiras also from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill entitled 'A birth allowance and other provisions' of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is a first response to a chronic and two-fold problem affecting the Greek state, that of demographic ageing and subnatality. In particular, during the years of the economic crisis which hit our country, many families have either postponed their having children indefinitely or were confined to one child. The reason is that they were unable to offer the conditions consistent with a decent standard of living. The population contraction is not an exclusive feature of Greece, but of other more advanced European countries. However, the constantly deteriorating demographic problem takes comparatively greater proportions in our country, which is still growing further with inertia to take concrete measures to strengthen it. However, with the current government, Greece is turning a page firmly with the introduction of a birth allowance of 2,000 euros for every child born in Greece from 1-1-2020. This allowance will be paid in two equal instalments of EUR 1,000. As is clear from the title of the bill, it is a pre-innovation allowance covering the widest range of social groups and, above all, most patients. That is why it is irreversible, untaxable and aims to be a substantial incentive for future parents to acquire offspring and, of course, an important aid to the early and increased costs of raising the child. A criterion of legal and permanent residence in the Greek territory of the beneficiaries of the birth allowance is also introduced in order to have a strong link between the above beneficiaries and the host State. For citizens of third States not covered by the regulatory regime in specific cases, a 12-year stay shall be required in the country before the application for the birth allowance is lodged. The birth allowance is granted on the basis of the equivalent family income, which is set at EUR 40,000 per annum, as shown by the tax declaration and the related administrative determination of tax. As in every policy area, in this case of the birth grant it must be clearly and above all rational criteria for granting it, which will take account of the country's financial possibilities, respect its status and be in line with the general feeling of law. So that is what we are doing today. Among other positive arrangements in this bill is that an application for a birth allowance is made electronically either in the subsystem of the civil registry information system for the birth declaration or directly in the OPEKA system. In this way we support digital governance and the gradual digital transformation of the country, by achieving a reduction in bureaucratic burdens and by avoiding errors affecting both public services and citizens. Our aim is for the citizen to feel that the state is standing next to its needs in the most modern way, which cannot be electronic interaction and service. Apart from the birth allowance, however, we have sought to reorientate the map and other critical benefits, such as the housing allowance, the child's allowance, the benefit of mountainous and disadvantaged areas and the minimum guaranteed income. For the purpose of granting housing allowances, a child and a minimum guaranteed income is defined as a prerequisite for a documented adequate school for minors and not just for their registration at school. This option is not punishable and is not intended to cut benefits. The aim is to eliminate the phenomenon of unjustified abstention of minors from the school environment and complete compulsory education. Parents are also required to ensure that their children are treated uninterruptedly in order to obtain state protection. For us education is a valuable good that no child should be deprived of. Instead, the acquisition of knowledge is at the forefront of our policy, so that every child can be able to raise socially, personally and self-regulatoryly. At the same time, an allowance for mountainous and disadvantaged areas is continued and granted. This allowance aims to strengthen citizens who live permanently in areas of the country with particularly geographical and economic characteristics. However, the tax-free and incompatibility of the household allowance for mountain and disadvantaged areas with low incomes is being introduced. This aid is exempted from the possibility of offsetting it with accredited public debts, other public sector bodies and credit institutions. Another innovation of the bill is the emphasis given to the need to increase the care structures of infants and infants. This provides the opportunity to fund through the program managed by the Hellenic Society of Local Development and Administration of the municipalities and legal persons in which no childcare and childcare departments operate. In Greece only 8.9% of children under three years of age have access to care infrastructure, far away from the European Union's target, 33% for 2020. In our opinion, care for children of pre-school age is a key pillar of childcare and of the wider project to improve the country's demographic indicators. Our government's priority is to broaden the existing structures, but also to create new facilities and accommodations by public institutions for pre-school children. This will support the foundation of the family and some parents may be able to reintegrate into the labour market after they have been unloaded on the day-to-day of their children. Ladies and gentlemen, we are listening to the pulse of society and setting a new foundation for a modern demographic policy in the country. Clearly, what we are legislating today is not enough in a period of depopulation of the countryside and ageing population that tends to take dangerous national dimensions. We also need a set of measures and incentives to enable further strengthening of the country's demographic policy by strengthening family and social cohesion. And I believe that the government and Prime Minister of the country Kyriakos Mitsotakis is moving in this direction - step by step: the duty-freeness of EUR 1,000 for every child, a reduction in VAT on the purchase of infants at 13%, an allowance of EUR 180, so that every child can be at a nursery station and now a birth allowance of EUR 2 000. I must congratulate the leadership of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and our Prime Minister, because this bill I believe is a step that can help families to have even more children. It is a first step and I believe that other measures will be taken in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, too. Mr Kotsiras from New Democracy has the floor now and Mr Avramakis is prepared. I would ask you to try and keep the time, because there is still a very large number of colleagues waiting to talk. Here, Mr. Kotsira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, with the draft legislation under discussion, the government is going to implement a basic pre-election of the announcement aimed, among other things, at dealing with a very basic problem for our country, the problem of birth, but at the same time, at the same time, at symbolizing the support of the Greek family, which is traditionally the core of support for the Greek society, the lighthouse of hope, the institution that has maintained the power and dignity of the Greeks alive in the multi-level crisis. It is well known to all of us that under the present conditions of demographic ageing, which is due to the simultaneous reduction of births in relation to the mortality of the elderly, we are leading to the gradual decline of the population of Greece with adverse social and national consequences. This also involves a decline in the workforce and is ultimately one of the main reasons for our country's insurance problem in the medium to long term. In particular, recent surveys converge in the continuous decline of the fertility index to levels below the European average. It is true that these tendencies have been recorded in all European countries for several years, but it is particularly negative for our country over the last decade because of the unfavourable economic conditions which have prevailed because of the multi-level crisis that we have all experienced and made it difficult to secure a decent standard of living necessary for children to have and raise up. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has repeatedly stated that a coherent policy to support the Greek family is a tool for national survival. We must therefore constantly and without stopping to encourage the new couples who now start their new common course and, more generally, to support the new generation in trying to start her social and family life. The introduction of the 2,000 allowance for each child born in Greece as of 1 January 2020 seeks to provide a primary incentive, primary assistance, with a view to restoring the degressive demographic path of the country, but also an important aid during the first upbringing period of the newborn child. This arrangement is part of an explicit constitutional requirement imposed by Article 21 of the Constitution, which defines childhood in paragraph 1 as being protected by the State and in paragraph 5 the implementation of demographic policy as a State obligation. Note that, according to the report of the State General Accounting Office accompanying the bill, the annual expenditure to be charged to the budget is estimated at EUR 123 million for 2020 and EUR 170 million for each following year. The details of the legislation were analysed in detail by both previous colleagues and the rapporteur of the New Democracy. The exemption from any tax, levy or public service charge is very important. It is obviously in favour of maintaining this allowance and obviously particularly important is the possibility of submitting the application directly to the maternity hospital, apparently showing the digital modernisation of the administrative procedures governing the parent's transaction from the early days of birth of the child. The second part of the bill under discussion is revised and updated four basic allowances, the housing allowance, the child's allowance, the benefit of mountainous and disadvantaged areas and the minimum guaranteed income. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate and the forthcoming vote of this new bill confirms our efforts to support the Greek family that has started since the beginning of the governance of the New Democracy. Faithworthy in our objective of Article 21 of the Constitution, constant care for the maintenance of the family and the foundation of our nation's promotion and the implementation of this objective of demographic policy, we add the specific regulation that is now being voted on in a policy launched from the first days of the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the reduction of VAT to 13% from 24% for infant species, the strengthening of the position of nurseries for all children, the abolition of luxurious living tax on private vehicles of more than two thousand cubic cubic metres, the strengthening of the limit of EUR 1 000 for each minor child. Without many words, but consistently in terms of our election commitments and with a full sense of responsibility for our continued obligation to meet the expectations of the Greek people, we continue our efforts. The bill under discussion is another step in this direction. It is assumed that it is not enough in itself for the Greek family to stand up, but the Government of the New Democracy shows with firm, decisive, substantial but also symbolic measures that support and development of family policy is the foundation of its policies. Ladies and gentlemen, our country has spent a very difficult decade and society has endured. Families have been created within the crisis and now want to see better days for our homeland. And we need these families to support them and continue to support them all the time. Support for the generation of the crisis, the generation that has been faced with particularly difficult conditions for the development of social, professional and family life, is and must be a national objective. And genuinely popular, social and truly liberal policy serves precisely that purpose. The young children who have remained in Greece in the crisis and have faced unemployment over-taxation, a professional environment particularly unlike the qualifications they have earned over the past few years, must be the backbone on which the creation of the new modern and extroverted Greece that we all want. A Greece with better jobs universities, real opportunities for all, real progress and merit. This will be the real and lasting support of the Greek family, and these will be the conditions that will create real social cohesion and prosperity. With the guiding and point of reference of these social needs we are continuing and will continue a step forward - a step towards bringing our country back to a path of economic and social development, social improvement, stability and national security. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating in my view needs to be passed by all the Greek Members for substance reasons, but above all for symbolic reasons, because we do not have the luxury to disagree on matters which are self-evident, which are now being implemented. We have a national bet in front of us for the new generation for the future of our country, and I believe that today the Greek Parliament will vote on a bill of symbolic and essential nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Avramakis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, since the first legislative initiative of the New Democracy Government in the field of social welfare, the already expressed and in the vote on the 2020 budget is the intention of a great deal of cut in expenditure in the sensitive area of social welfare. At the same time, it restores with emphatic and purely anachronistic ideological character this piece of legislation, as well as its policy in general, by significantly altering the SYRIZA government's emblematic and social welfare interventions. On the pretext of introducing the 2,000 euro birth allowance, a generally positive measure, proceeds to significant changes and cuts in the three main children's, housing and CRLs implemented by the SYRIZA government, giving large breaths to wider parts of the Greek population. First of all, we support the birth allowance because it is an aid which undoubtedly supports the Greek family at the reception of the new member. We welcome the Government to implement a targeted social welfare policy which also has developmental features. It was a key feature of our policy that the New Democracy so smuggled and smuggled in previous years. However, we believe that the EUR 2 000 allowance should be given only at the birth of the child and not in two instalments and in an undetermined time. We note with emphasis that the birth allowance cannot be one of the new foundations of the country's modern demographic policy, as the government makes. The country's huge demographic problem requires a systematic study and combined actions and measures such as those initiated by the SYRIZA government by their implementation, such as school meals, a continuous increase in funds for free access to nurseries, child benefit and measures more widely that create favourable environments for children's acquisition and upbringing, social solidarity income, housing benefits, the fight against unemployment, the increase of the minimum wage and the abolition of the underprivileged, the operation of community centres and other actions. The government of SYRIZA in difficult and suffocating economic conditions increased the general welfare budget from 789 million euros received in 2015, to 3.5 billion in 2019 and the benefits for the child from 822 million euros to 1.4 billion euros, giving an additional EUR 300 million for the housing allowance. Such measures were never adopted by previous governments by 2015, today to address the demographic problem require measures and actions in the direction of the relevant report of the Greek Parliament of the Greek Parliament adopted in 2018 by all Parliament's wings other than Golden Dawn and the JRC. But instead of the New Democracy Government further maintaining and extending the existing measures, it promotes through the other provisions of the bill under discussion a significant restriction on the rightholders of the child, the housing allowance and the social income of solidarity, namely the three main benefits that help family and child and contribute to a certain extent to the fight against birthhood in our country. A common feature in all these cuts is the various unscientific and mainly anachronistic ideologies of the conservative ideologies. In particular, this law provides for the reduction or interruption of the grant of child and housing allowances if even one of the family's children repeats the order because of absenteeism. Secondly, the reduction of allowances according to the origin of the children and thirdly, the rename of the CRL to a minimum guaranteed income and the reduction from families whose children repeat a class because of absenteeism. He's punishing the whole family and the rest of the family if they exist in it. Rename is designed to refer to the failed pilot project of 2014 for thirty thousand beneficiaries and to incorporate the CRL created by SYRIZA, giving 700 million for six hundred thousand of our fellow citizens left to extreme poverty and their fate in 2015. These are the well-known communication games of the New Democracy to erase the SYRIZA government's events from collective memory while at the same time it has innovative policies that we have implemented. We fear that the government and government policy will continue the path of conservative regression and the drastic reduction of social welfare benefits, of reductions applied to the poles in order to benefit the few and especially the high incomes. Citizens must fight with the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance both to safeguard the conquests of the social state and welfare achieved over the last five years and to further implement social policies that will substantially contribute to addressing the demographic problem. Greece, like the rest of Europe, faces a acute demographic problem. Birth retreat is due to a set of factors and it is not just a question of a family's financial potential, as the New Democracy seems to understand. If births increased depending on economic growth, then there would be no demographic problem since births would have multiplied the years of virtual prosperity. One of the main causes of the birth reduction was the reduction of the safety that modern man feels. We do not mean security as the New Democracy and any neoliberal political formation. We mean the security that a modern state offers to its citizens without discrimination. We mean the protection that a state offers through infrastructure, social services through the social protection and social cohesion net, which gives everyone the feeling that it will find help if necessary. We mean the prospect that a state and a society gives to its young people today to envision a better life for themselves and their children. New Democracy believes in the failed world neoliberal brings an allowance of 2,000 euros for new parents. The return of this amount to each child born is undoubtedly a significant aid for the first costs. However, it cannot be considered disfellowshipped from the rest of the policy that has been developing in recent months and which significantly reduces the sense of security for citizens. The previous SYRIZA government in an extremely suffocating economic environment has managed to upgrade the social protection system as a whole to rescue and develop the social state, even to multiply the financial benefits to the weakest in order to move gradually to a dignity society for all. The New Democracy is moving in the opposite direction, trying to curb public intervention of social protection as a whole to reduce social expenditure, push people into private needs and reinstate policies of austerity and labour-intensive ages without even invoking the need for it. The situation of hospitals is getting worse every day. Medicines are missing, funds for health and education, pensions, social protection are falling. In today's bill, you are limiting the rightholders to rent and child subsidy, associating the two benefits introduced to combat extreme poverty with school absences. You divide society into three categories: the Greeks, the migrants who have been designated social protection beneficiaries so far and the immigrants who will probably have a social policy right. In conclusion, I would like to say that we call on the Government to adopt all the amendments we have tabled as SYRIZA in an attempt to protect specific social groups and to cure the injustices that exist, such as maternity leave and fixed-term staff in the public sector. In particular, the amendment on the integration of the CFP into the social services of the municipalities, as the SYRIZA Government has done with 'Help at Home', is an important necessity. It is the only way for these valuable structures to continue their work, to highlight the maintenance of jobs for people already employed and actually supported hundreds of families throughout the country. It is crucial to make this intervention now and not to try to put the government into hostage workers and beneficiaries as it has unfortunately been done in the past with the 'Help at Home' programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Aylonite from SYRIZA has the floor now. Get Mr. Frankides ready from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Here, then, is the birth allowance. The election issue posed by the New Democracy is laid down in this bill. It's advertised voluntarily. Incidentally, however, it puts on the table of Profrust and some other arrangements, completely changing the way adopted allowances are given. And I will explain below, although they have been analysed by previous colleagues. I am talking about the social solidarity allowance, the housing allowance and the child's allowance. Not that this allowance is bad, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy. But to think that with EUR 2,000 will be born on the days of the New Republic of the world, this is a paradox. What else can one say, when the government claims in the explanatory statement to the draft law we are debating today, that the EUR 2 000 per birth measure is a serious measure - I say self-sufficient - a measure to strengthen modern demographic policy, by achieving the promotion of fertility and by strengthening family and social cohesion. I wish that's the way it is. Who wouldn't want that? But let me remind you, honourable Members of the New Democracy and Minister, that you had baptized the SYRIZA government when adopting the social benefits mentioned above, with the word'supervised'. And now you with this allowance will face the demographic problem with a sum of EUR 2 000 per child. I repeat, the allowance is not bad. The bidramical hips, but verbalism is also the ones that make me make this criticism. I read in a newspaper that in the conclusion of a parliamentary intergroup - I refer to 2018 - you accepted. I am also reading a part of the conclusion: 'Supplementary policies should be accompanied by policies to harmonise family, personal and professional life insurance in the event of a loss of work in the event of the risk of household poverty with active employment policies, with targeted policies on migration and refugee populations seeking to prevent and eliminate social exclusion, as well as policies to eliminate racial inequality and discrimination in the labour market and private family life'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u126	The ministers are gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u127	It's okay. The Greek people are listening. So this was signed as the conclusion of the Intergroup in 2018. I address again to you, honourable Members. Can you tell us at any meeting your proposal for demographics as a whole? How will you implement this correct wording in the conclusion of the intergroup? And I say this because, with the policy on employment rights that we hit each day in the media with discrimination on the part of women, without the support of a variety of households, without the support of the mother as a worker and as an unemployed, without the full coverage of nursery and childcare facilities, without reduced working hours, without maternity leave, upbringing, without support for the family's housing needs, without school meals, etc. - infinitely I could name - do you think you're going to respond to the maximum problem of demographics? I think it's all about mocking. The family wants safety, work, state protection, reinforcement and care. Will the EUR 2,000 help until these children grow up? Inside the family the work of the mother, the father, should be assured. In any case, no more than 2,000 euros. However - I say it for the third time - it is a good allowance. So what do you tell us when in the same bill you change the criteria of allowances that have so far been granted? Listen, then, once again: If a child stays absent - be careful - his family does not receive the allowance. Go to the settlements of gypsies, to children with special abilities and capabilities. How does that work? Are they going to take away their allowance? But you don't say that. Immigrants from third countries should stay permanently and legally in Greece 12 years whole. What exactly are they? For these people who live in Greece what is the law applicable? Is the law of the country, Greece, or any other law that I don't know about? Do you know the rights of those who have been secured? There's a lot I could say sincerely. But I'll stop it here. I want to deal with a particular issue, Madam Secretary. Today, apart from your bill, there is also an amendment that we lawyers, the lawyers as a whole, have tabled. We ask you, with this parliamentary amendment, to annul a provision which was put to the House on 18 November, if I remember correctly - with which you abolished a priorly favourable provision requiring the Greeks to pay up to EUR 2,500 to EUR 3,000 in order to seek legal protection in the event of an action being discussed. So we ask you to respond to this parliamentary amendment, but in particular. Because that night, at night, when we were shouting out of these benches, there was no Minister to speak about this request and our protest. You have made a lawyer from your Northern Greece to put an amendment to it and you voted for it. The world's up. All legal clubs in Greece, all judicial associations were opposed. I therefore give you the opportunity with this specific parliamentary amendment to reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u128	And I, Mr. Colleague, for keeping your time. Mr. Francis from the Change Movement for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are used to saying that a country's future is its youth. The news about Greece is not good, however, as its population has grown old for years, and for the first time in the post-war era there is a decline in its population. According to studies, over the last five years, births and population movements to Greece have been less than deaths and migration flows abroad. ELSTAT, in October 2019, records that since 2011, deaths have been constant in excess of births. Let me say, as a gynecologist I am that the latest figures of 2018 show eighty-six thousand four hundred forty-fours, a drop of 19% since 2011 and a hundred twenty-seven thousand killed ninety-seven deaths, that is, a difference of births and 30% deaths. The birth rate, that is, children per woman in our country, is 1.35%, while 2.1% is required to stabilise the population, whose decline we see has deteriorated considerably in the years of the crisis. Demographically, therefore, is evolving into one of the biggest problems, not only for Greece, but for the whole of Europe. The European population of about seven hundred million and its age-old recommendation is impressive. Half of Europe's inhabitants are over forty-three years old. Over sixty-five years of age exceeds 15 years of age. While over eighty years are the share of the population with the highest upward trend. Unfortunately, the demographic future of Greece is demolished with forecasts to confirm the further ageing and decline in population within the next decade. So it is quickly understood that the impact of this phenomenon on the productive model and on the development prospects, on insurance, on social cohesion and on our country's strategic power. The criticality of the situation puts demographic priorities first and makes it necessary to find a reliable solution to the problem through a forming of an integrated demographic policy. The bill we are debating today introduces a fragmentary measure and is not an integrated plan for demographics. The country's major problems, ladies and gentlemen of the government, require decisive and radical solutions that arise through seriousness, cooperation, dialogue, systematicity and programming. So it is time to start legislating by adopting these elements. In the explanatory memorandum to your bill, there is no reference to the findings and proposals made in 2018 by the intergroup committee of Parliament set up following the initiative of our President, nor to our proposal for a demographic report submitted on 11 December 2018. I wonder: What is the purpose of committees with qualified bodies and scientists if we do not use their findings? At least you have included in the Tax Act our proposal for a low VAT rate in the basic baby species. Although we have, of course, proposed 6% rather than 13%, as the New Democracy suggests. Now, too, you also adopt, though fragmented, some of our proposals, the linking of family allowances to the actual child's education and unrealistic and incomprehensible, but unfortunately, only of the birth allowance and not of the other family allowances. Demographic policy to achieve requires interaction and joint planning with other policies that take account of the needs of the economy, society and changes in the population. The reduction of labour force, unemployment, gender equality are parameters that play an important role in modern times. So in the modern family, very often mother is working. In order to encourage the creation of a family and the acquisition of children, it is necessary to create a supportive working and social environment. Support should not begin and end the birth of a child, but should start beforehand and continue after childbirth, with care and care during infant and pre-school age. It is noteworthy and disappointing that Greece is among the last countries of the European Union in terms of family benefits expenditure. The Change Movement with full awareness that the major problems require holistic treatment and coordinated effort, a full proposal for demographics in 2018, which in fact included housing assistance to the family for every young child who receives EUR 200 a month for three years to cover a large part of family and baby costs. In this bill we are coming back with two amendments proposing, with the first setting up of a Special Secretariat for Demographic Policy, the drawing up of a national plan for the demographic from a newly established National Committee on Demographic Policy, the increase of the child's allowance for the first three years and the creation of an advisory and support centre for the municipalities, the subsidy of infertile couples for assisted reproduction, the transfer of all key infant species to the over-reduced rate of 6% VAT, the safeguarding clause for the rights of multitude families, as well as the integration of all threeteen families into multitudes and the creative employment of children. As regards the second amendment, it concerns the reintroduction of collective bargaining to determine the basic salary by the social partners and not by the Minister. I urge you to accept the amendments and take into account our proposals and comments, for example, to correct the provision which does not provide for an allowance for a child born of Greek temporary residence abroad or the arbitrary definition of twelve years of residence in the country for beneficiaries from third countries. We therefore consider it necessary to give birth and welcome it. In itself, however, it is not a radical approach capable of overturning the dangerous path of the demographic problem. Donor policy alone cannot be effective. An organised framework for family support is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, forty-six students and students and three teachers from the 6th Kalamata High School (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Bakadimas has the floor now. Parliamentary spokesman for Mera25. You have the floor for twelve minutes, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u131	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called on to discuss the bill introduced by the Ministry of Labour concerning the payment of a birth allowance of EUR 2 000 for every child born in Greece and according to the government's assumptions it is expected to be an incentive for future parents and at the same time an important aid for the first period of child rearing. As Merra25, we would never stand against an aid that will be given to the more substantially weaker, even if we consider that his targeting is wrong. But let's look at this a little more detailed. Unfortunately, as many colleagues have already said, our country is suffering from the problem of infertility and, according to forecasts, the population of children between the ages of three and seventeen will be reduced from 1.6 million who are now in one to 1.4 by 2050. Undoubtedly, the birth rate in Greece is among the lowest in Europe, while the proportion of the elderly people is expected to increase in the coming decades with significant social and economic implications for the country. It is therefore necessary to create an integrated policy framework to address the demographic problem that we face and which, as everything shows, will be intensified even more in the next period. However, the moves made by the State Secretary for Labour at the meeting of the committee as points of a structured demographic policy, such as the legislative initiatives for the introduction of a EUR 1 000 tax on each child, the reduction of VAT on infants and school seats, together with the strengthening of nursery stations, together with the vote on today's birth allowance, are not radical measures, rather than temporary therapeutic efforts. And why am I saying that? Not in order to zero any such legislation that has a positive effect, but to demonstrate that we need to make more radical areas and draw up a broader plan to deal with the phenomenon. First of all, no woman and no family are going to decide to have a child with the only motive for the 2,000 euros that they receive as an allowance, when birth costs are much more, not to include the costs of rearing, education, etc. Considering the costs of maternity, childbirth, day care, we will see how the total amount is very high and is extremely dissuasive for a family that has already had children, or whether we are talking about a new couple who is in the first steps of his new life, and who is reluctant to take the step and have his first child or not, when the same couple is often unable to live without the financial support of their parents and family as, even if both spouses work in Greece of the crisis, reduced wages and periodic work, it is extremely unlikely that they will be able to cover the costs of living and expenses of their own family. So we think it is purely communist and unrealistic to believe and to imply that with EUR 2 000 and EUR 1 000 a couple who barely walks, will make a child as much as he wishes. At the same time, we consider the introduction of such a benefit to be a dissatisfaction. And why am I saying that? Because there is no provision for all those couples who are trying to give birth to them with the help of science and the relevant treatments are not yet covered by their insurance funds. Why are all these people left out of the legislative framework? All women who need help to get to know the joy of maternity, should they also feel like possible beta mothers? Equally out of context are all other couples who try and cannot, because of the unthinkable legal and bureaucratic obstacles, become parents by adopting a child who needs love and family, be they infant, infant or older. Nor do we see for them any provision or any legislative initiative to improve and simplify procedures. Are these families and these couples not worth the support of the state, or are these children not worth finding delight and love? We believe that this is not the case. We can't imagine how anyone believes it. We therefore expect to see some moves from the state, the government to be clearer. If a couple succeeds either by assisting or by adopting a child, why is there no provision in the bill under discussion to receive that allowance? Of course, although we live in the 21st century, there is no mention of a woman who may wish to become a mother without being married or a couple who does not want to marry to have a child. We cannot be in 2020 anymore and ignore the fact that there are single-parent families, but also families of the same sex. At the same time, if we want to talk about a political effort to resolve the demographic problem, why does the government not take an initiative to introduce a framework for universal, free baby care and quality pre-school education, as well as to provide free medical, ophthalmic and dental care for every child from birth to fourteen or eighteen? Such a move would certainly, in combination with others, reduce the total cost to a family today. Acknowledging also the enormous importance of both his family and child creative employment in infantry, infant and childhood, we would like to ask you, Mr Minister, to take all the necessary initiatives to resolve the serious problems affecting the important institution of CSR and CSR - ACE, which are areas of education and creative employment, promoting learning through fun and helping children to socialise and develop talents and skills. That is why the leadership of the Ministry of Labour must be above the problems of this institution and its workers as soon as possible. At the same time, while continuing to see what we would like to see and would like to see the next steps to address the demographic problem of the country, we would propose, at the same time, a compulsory and free annual preventive medical examination for newborn ages of up to twelve years, movements that would certainly cover exclusively an important cost that families today would see as an incentive, living in a memorandum that has cut them off by far the wages and cut them off, as would those of their protected members. Equally problematic we consider it to be the provision of Article 7 for a 12-year stay in the country prior to the submission of the application for the benefit in question, while we think that it is still what happens in cases of mixed marriages where one of the two parents may not have completed the twelve years of stay in Greece. However, the most problematic and naive part of the bill is that it is the other provisions of this bill, which provide for, among other things, that the leadership of the Ministry of Labour does not admit it, that the three main benefits: child, housing and the former social solidarity income, which is renamed to a minimum guaranteed income, are cut back. It is precisely these cuts that are hidden in the 'other provisions' and are achieved by introducing the abolition of aids if even one of the family's children repeats the order because of absences and their cuts according to the origin of the children, since the criterion of the permanent and legal residence of their parents is not dealt with uniformly. We believe that it is, without doubt, necessary for all children to go to school and for their parents to be mobilised in this direction. But we shouldn't work when you're being punished, so you're sending your kid to school and no absence, then you're going to keep getting the allowance. Because we think that children should learn to love school and learning, not be forced by their parents to watch it. And to love it, they should feel welcome, independent of origin, religion, color, language, learning difficulties or anything else. That is why, instead of motivating parents in the form of benefits, we should concentrate on improving structures, hiring specialist teachers, hiring teachers to help integrate into our country's educational process of minors who do not know or speak a little greek. Ladies and gentlemen, initiatives and proposals, both to address the demographic and the issues relating to access to education, will only be enough to decide together how to show the political will necessary for radical changes, if necessary and above all, if we dare take structural steps to reverse the most fundamental problem which brings about and nourishes all the other, overthrowsing all the memoranda of poverty policies which lead to the desertification of our country and to the deterioration of the standard of living of those who choose to stay. If the neck of austerity that hits Greece since 2010 is not dealt with, unfortunately, we think that any other steps will only work on fire and fire in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, my colleague. Now Mr. Pulas has the floor from the Change Movement for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, undeniably one of the first areas to be reduced for budgetary reasons in the Memorandum was social policy. In fact, in the years of the memoranda, a number of measures were taken in all areas which affected the institution of the family. Of course, any legislative initiative contributing to increasing the income of citizens and having a social character is welcome, even if it comes to correcting errors of the same government, such as the reintroduction of the same Minister of birth allowance paid from 2004 to 2012. We do not want to participate in the competition between government and SYRIZA about who did more for our weak fellow citizens at the time of the memorandums. However, it is important to point out for political reasons that specific measures adopted by the current government in the first half of its governance were proposals of the Change Movement, such as reducing the VAT rate on infants, the incomprehensible and duty-free birth allowance, linking actual schooling to the payment of child, housing and minimum guaranteed income, as a self-evident condition for combating ghettoisation and social exclusion of specific groups of the population. In particular, with regard to the introduction of the minimum guaranteed income, it is important to stress that the PASOK has contributed to the maximum, with the then State Secretary for Labour Mr Kegeroglu proposing for the first time to the country the pilot implementation of the measure to address the extreme poverty conditions that had already been created. The minimum guaranteed income was designed to be accompanied by individual reintegration plans in society and the labour market, a prospect that was abandoned by the next government, undermining this initiative to another allowance. Unfortunately, the government seems to be joining the benefits policy. As she advocated, allowances cannot be permanent in nature because they feed poverty. On the contrary, the minimum guaranteed income must be combined with specific measures for reintegration into society and work, as a measure to protect human dignity and social cohesion. Undoubtedly, this bill also has a positive sign, as it simplifies and automulates the birth process and the provision of VAT and AMKA. Deletes debts to EVKA up to EUR 200, which could be clearly and more, subject to conditions, and limits the human resources leakage from the social structures of the Social Welfare Centres until December 31, 2021. However, it does not avoid failures, such as the exception to the birth allowance of the children of Greek citizens who left the country - either because of Brain drain or other professional obligations - and who are born abroad. This distinction is completely inappropriate and unjust, particularly in the demographic context set out in the explanatory statement on the grant of the benefit in question. Nor shall communication fireworks be avoided, such as the provision to the birth allowance of a measure to reverse the demographic problem. In fact, this is an exceptional aid to families who have a child, so that they can cope more easily with the first costs of birth and are granted under purely economic criteria. We are concerned about this as a political system if we consider that the demographic decline and ageing of the population is due only to economic reasons and that they are cured by the provision of benefits. The reasons, factors and diverse dimensions of the problem present the conclusion of the intergroup committee of the Greek Parliament of 2018 set up on a proposal from the President of the Change Movement in April 2017. In order to reverse the unpleasant possibility in 2035 that we have shrinked into the eight million four hundred thousand as a population, we must accept the real causes of the birth reduction and the discouragement of new couples to childbirth. It is clear from the conclusion that the causes are social and economic. It is social because of the change of attitude of young people towards the family institution and because they are related to the economic crisis. These factors, together with the lack of support structures for the family and growing infertility, result in the long-term negative natural balance between births and deaths, increasing middle-age, childbirth, shrinking the number of multiple families, increasing single-parent families with one child and the ratio of only 1,15 children per woman. It is characteristic that 20% of young women choose consciously not to have a child. Today more than ever, holistic legislation is required to address demographics, taking into account European policies on family and European pillars of social rights in the following directions: strengthening the availability, accessibility and financial accessibility of childcare infrastructures with extended working hours to cover mothers' working hours. Measures to promote equality of pay - working hours and working conditions between men and women. Also, actions to improve the combination of family and professional life, tax concessions at least by reintroducing the child-free allowance abolished by SYRIZA - with a gradual increase in the number of children. Even beneficial policies to strengthen the employment of mothers, as motherhood is today a factor in finding employment. At the same time, subsidised housing programs and loans for new couples, three-tiers and multi-tiers, in order to obtain shelter on more favourable terms than banks. Policies for the shifting of young people to the family and strengthening of family ties, for full coverage of the costs of assisted reproduction of infertile couples through the EEAS, for full coverage of the costs of prenatal control and tests that accompany pregnancy even in the middle age. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are dealing with the decline of the population in terms of benefits, we are underestimating the problem and at the same time maximising its consequences. We have as a state to develop a comprehensive culture of long-term family support measures with national, political consensus and a comprehensive strategy. We as a Change Movement have already submitted with a sense of responsibility an amendment to the family's real support with specific economic and non-economic measures, such as the child's allowance of EUR 200 a month for the first three years of his life, the incompatibility and the incompatibility of family allowances, the advisory centres and family support centres, as well as the creative employment centres and for children with disabilities to join the city's welfare centres. We hope that they will soon be adopted by the government, as the resurgence of subgenicity is a national and not a party target! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Dritsas has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Since the first time the government's plan to grant birth benefits was announced, we have taken a positive attitude. And it couldn't have been. Such an allowance is very strengthening for the needs of a new couple and especially the new mother, who bears a child. You won't let us sanctify, though. What do you want now, too, is this benefit - which is of its importance, which has its usefulness, which can just be saluted as a relief and support measure - to link it to the explanatory statement as a new foundation for demographic policy? And it opens up a debate here and all the majority MPs are paralyzing women and men to talk to us about demographic linked to growth. Colleagues, the House - the previous colleague who spoke from the Change Movement - said so - in 2018 was, anyway, a first good effort to come to an agreement and agree on a framework which we should put into a planned and targeted multi-purpose process from now on. Because it's not just an economic thing. The phenomenon of infertileness is also seen where economic prosperity exists. And it is not just the economic issue, which is very important - the cause of the phenomenon. So that's not just the "therapy". But to God, growth rate and even very high our country lived just in the decade and in the past two decades before bankruptcy. We have nevertheless led to bankruptcy and finally draw a conclusion or at least admit a conclusion. Because I do not believe that you cannot consider these parameters that are obvious and experienced in dramatic terms by the Greek people. Not only did the country go bankrupt but the phenomenon of fertility was beginning at that time, well-being and even before. So, it is so preposterous, so misleading, that the New Democracy is so demagogic that it can show up with these demagogues to tell us that the new policy, the new 'economic miracle', opens up the way to address demographics! All right, to cultivate hope for the Greek people and sense of optimism - no objection - but not with rotten bases, not by misleading, not by demagogue. And that has been the case since this morning in both the committee and today in plenary, which we have been following this kind of rhetoric. And we said, 'yes' to this allowance, but we did not in any way say that it should be accompanied by cuts in other benefits. And it is already accompanied by this EUR 2 000 birth allowance with cutbacks in child benefits - it is also very closely linked to demographics - to housing allowances, social solidarity income and much more. Therefore, you are deciding within a budgetary calculation to go ahead with a targeted reinforcement of sections of the population that really need to be strengthened. However, what has already been conquered in the previous period and is also targeted is also not very important? Can we understand the huge importance of school meals? This is where the SYRIZA rapporteur today, Mrs Theano Fotio, then Minister, has fought a great deal for this, not only to secure the relevant budget but also to ensure the proper organisation of this whole project. He fought not to be regarded as a'strategic'. This means another school, that is, school meals when they are functionally integrated into the school environment. It means another school, another guarantee of children, but also of parents, and so it means another optimism for life and another confidence. This really means, together with a lot of other things that need to be done, supporting and strengthening efforts with results for the removal of the prenatal genitality process. That's the only way we can do it. What can I say now? That the conclusion would be - and it is - that you are defending and participating in a political and economic system that cannot solve demographically, because economic competition, the profitability of a few businesses as a lever for growth cannot include projects of a real importance. These are issues to solve another political and social system and, in any case, it is another policy that has a socialist sign, which has real databases and design, which is about the needs of society and not about the needs of the few as a lever for development and prosperity in the rest of society that never comes, on the contrary, exacerbates competition and inequality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would therefore like, Madam President, to conclude - and I thank you for your tolerance - to accept, Mr Minister, the proposals made in the amendments tabled by SYRIZA to guarantee the procedure for applying for the birth allowance, Amendment No. 142/7, amending Article 11 for the one-off payment of the allowance, for the inclusion of foreigners who are born in our country, and which may be the prospect of incorporating and facilitating this integration with the one-year tax declaration before the birth of the child and not in the twelve-year period, as well as with all these proposals that we have made to you. And this is linked to demographics, but it has its own self-interest at the moment. I would like to pay special attention to the Centres for Creative Employment of Children and Children with Disabilities. It is an issue pending. I would like to say that we also have a responsibility as a government that did not run it at the pace it had to run. Finally, if these centres are integrated into local government and become solid and demographic, they will help, but in any case they solve very serious needs. Finally, I should like to say with the proposal, the point made by my colleague, Mr Aylonite, on Amendment No 136/1, the abolition of the judiciary in the actions of the Multipartite Court of First Instance. That's a special matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Colleague, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u137	I do not say that indirectly, and that affects. It would be an exaggeration, but in any case, it is a crucial issue for people who want to claim their right to justice and have no financial power and you exclude them from exercising very important rights for recourse to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u138	Mr Mandash has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the phenomenon of infertility in our country is certainly not just a result of the economic crisis. It is probably the result of the economic crisis, but, above all, it is also the cause of the economic crisis, because the simple thing is that fewer and fewer in our country are working to sustain more and more, it is clear that it will soon lead to a deadlock in the insurance sector, in the country's economy, which we are living for and we will live for even more in the coming years. Is the ageing of our population in combination with the desertification of the countryside not a result of demographic, fertility? Is the primary sector, the fall in crops, the reduction in products not a result of fertility? [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] The regions, our villages have been devastated, the lot has been shortened and the primary sector does not develop. Is this not all the result of missing people, missing young children from the countryside, from everywhere that will continue life, as did previous generations? If we combine these events and the hundreds of thousands of young people who have left abroad in recent years, you realize that the biggest problem we have to face as a state is the demographic problem in our country. And no matter how much you want to put words into our mouths that we haven't said, no one said that birth allowance is panacea in the demographic problem. However, it is a complementary positive measure to a series of measures taken by our Government over the last seven months and have been to do with significant support to all families. Who disagrees that a thousand euros on the tax for each protected member is a negative measure? Who disagrees that reducing VAT on infants is not a positive measure? Who disagrees that the abolition of luxury tax on laundry cars is not a positive measure and something that has been demanding for years, because it was an unfair tax? Who argues that every child should go to a nursery? Isn't that going to strengthen family tranquility? Will it not give women an opportunity, the integration of women into the labour market that will bring wealth to the family, will it bring wealth to society and the country? In addition to this, however, this bill we are voting on today also has another target, it is aimed at reducing the school leak in our country, because even in this area we are negative champions in the European Union having the highest rate of school leak. How's that gonna happen? With the interconnection of the grant policy, with the actual compulsory schooling. Because I have heard many of SYRIZA colleagues referring to gypsies, i.e. to Roma children, I would like to ask them: really, how proud do you feel about seeing gypsies on the streets begging for EUR 1 and 2? How proud do you feel to see cigarettes in the streets cleaning car windows? How proud do you feel of cigarettes coming out at the direction of their parents - who wait around the corner - to raise the money and ask for money to eat, to get anything they can to deliver to their parents who control it? Don't tell me you haven't seen these. If you think we implement this policy to save money, we tell you that we are implementing this policy because we have the moral obligation in this society to protect these children, these children to take them to school together with all the children, who will thus incorporate themselves into society, they will learn things, they will acquire the supplies they need, so that tomorrow morning they are Greek citizens and they will equally claim a job, make dreams, do their families. If we don't do that, what do we actually do? To lead them to future offenders and to increase the infringibility of a particular group of people that we already live in, especially in the regions and villages of our country. It is obvious, therefore, that we do not see everything the same and that is why we are making a series of changes so that we can really give a new impetus and a new incentive to Greek families. We're different in a lot. Your aim was to inspire the Greek society to the benefits, to create armies of the disadvantaged unemployed. This has been what you have done for four and a half years: people who will sit at their house, take money and glorify Alexis Tsipras for how good a Prime Minister he is. You forced Greek society to find various tricks about how to get benefits. Virtual divorces, virtual concessions and what the Greeks have not been invented to get the benefits you have introduced! Our aim is to phase out benefits with development policies for the whole of our country's economy. Because we want the state to motivate young people to stay in their country, to motivate young people to create here, in Greece, for men to dream with their wives and their children. We want all the children who have left to be able to return to their country sometime, create the conditions to come back, come here. We dream of Greece where they will have the right to work and not Greece of allowances and eight-month employment contracts. That's what we promised the Greek people, and that's what we'll do every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u140	Mrs Anastasia Gara has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u141	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before entering the subject of today's debate, I would like to remind the House of an indicative example of the many phrases made by the officials of the New Democracy, which belongs to Mr Varvitsiotis, the current Deputy Minister of the Government and expressed on 3 June. So Mr Varvitsiotis said: 'The dilemma to the elections will be either with the benefits, with new measures to support the weak, or with growth'. You called SYRIZA, "policy of poverty and equilibrium down", you called the political construction of the social state. You have shown a lack of support policies for the weaker and young people who want to create a family or a new job. And how does the weather bring them? You are tabling a bill today entitled 'a birth allowance'. I wonder who the populist is in this Chamber, since it is a term that you have used too often. However, since, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of demographics is particularly important, especially for those of us who live in acronyms Greece, in Evros, in Thrace, and demand seriousness, I will not go back to other populist expressions of this type by members of the New Democracy, but for the overall rhetoric followed by your party. So Evros has for decades seen intense waves of migration from abroad and to the large urban centres, and there has been a constant population bleed. For example, in 2019 in the Municipality of Orestiad, births were two hundred fifty, six hundred eighty-eight, in the polls were written by hundreds of thirty-six people and two hundred fifty-six were deleted. The total reduction in the Municipality of Orestiad in 2019 is five hundred and fifty people, not counting on leaving and unrecorded youths. That is why I would point out that this is a major issue and needs to be addressed in a comprehensive manner. So you, ladies and gentlemen, come to this draft law for the first time in our words, or rather for the second time, because I have just remembered the re-establishment of the Ministry of Migration Policy. You seem to understand, at the end of the day, how important and with a clear development character, is the intervention of the social state through benefits and incentives to support citizens and alleviate inequalities. Of course, do and legislate in fragmentary and contradictory terms, I would say. On the one hand, you are giving a child benefit, which is positive, but on the other hand, you are reducing other benefits. You are cutting 600 million out of the social dividend so that local markets are kneeled and jobs and workers are affected. You reduce the 2020 welfare budget by 400 million, cutting off the child's allowance, housing allowance and social solidarity income, while reducing the amounts for infrastructure, education and health. Ladies and gentlemen, during the previous parliamentary term we set up the intergroup parliamentary committee on demographics, to which I was a member and which produced a very important conclusion. Other colleagues and colleagues have referred to this. With the contribution of scientists we have argued that in the first priorities, in order to tackle the acute demographic problem, it is firstly the recovery of the economy and the welfare state, support for work with stable and well-paid jobs for young people, the development of infrastructure, support for children and young couples. The government of SYRIZA from 2015 to 2019, just to curb the demographic problem through a solid total intervention of the State, increased the welfare budget from 790 million to 3.5 billion, reduced unemployment by more than ten points, creating over three hundred thousand new jobs, increased the minimum wage and restored collective agreements, also increased the child's allowance from 650 million to 1.1 billion, introduced the housing allowance for mainly new couples of EUR 300 million, financed new sections in nursery schools, established the school meals, which you incidentally mocked and called ‘hunger'. This and several others did the SYRIZA government at the heart of fighting child poverty, alleviating inequalities, creating serious infrastructure and an environment - very basic - labour, social and economic stability, so that young people and young people can plan the future in their place with greater security, optimism and perspective. Unfortunately, today, only six months after power has been taken over by the all-government government of Mr Mitsotakis, young people and young people are facing an extremely difficult and problematic environment. Just six months later! Unemployment has increased by fourteen units in a very few months, labour rights are being dismantled and by law, wages are being squandered, successful projects such as the five and a half thousand young scientists are being abolished and not renewed, insurance contributions are growing, the thirteenth permanent pension is being abolished, insecurity and uncertainty are beginning to occupy the citizens. But you will allow me to return to the county I represent in Evros again. The messages that come within very few months are extremely worrying and I have already communicated them with interventions in the House. In short, I say that services such as bank and ELTA branches are being closed in remote areas, workers are being made redundant, and the rural world of the county is being squeezed. With the new insurance, we are informed that IKA's shop in Orestiad is closed and that it has already been designed and announced the closure of six school units. The money outflow is also increasing constantly in neighbouring countries. On the other hand, positive measures for Evros and Thrace, which were voted on or designed by the government of SYRIZA, such as the establishment of eight new departments at the Democritus University of Thrace or the measure to support processing operations in border areas, have already been rejected or frozen by the current government. Even the separation of the Dumos Hospital, a flagrant legislative intervention by the SYRIZA government, seems to be treated indifferently by the Ministry of Health. Ladies and gentlemen, I mention this because I believe that the development of a serious policy to tackle the demographic problem facing our country, especially in areas such as the extreme Evros, cannot be fragmented and with half-measures. On the contrary, it can be done by depositing a robust, processed, integrated programme involving direct, medium and long-term State interventions and combining policies of benefit or other economic incentives but also strengthening infrastructures, guaranteeing decent learning conditions, work, living and housing. We need a progressive programme, especially for young people in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u142	I invite Mrs. Nadia Giannakopoulou from the Change Movement for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, demographic is one of the most important problems facing the country at the moment. The decline in our population is a national risk. At the same time as our homeland must take steps of final and irrevocable exit from the crisis, entering a developmental orbit, which new geostrategic risks present before us at the same time as refugees and immigration fuel social tensions, the demographic problem needs to be considered very seriously and we need to take measures to tackle a truly dangerous declining Greekism. Decades now show up as a cause for intense reflection. Greece as a country of the developed world in recent years, in particular, has been experiencing a problem with regard to the smooth development and ageing of its population. This is a result, yes, of the acute economic crisis. It is a result, yes, of changing attitudes, it has of course to do and is linked to the refugee wave, as well as to a very large extent to the migration of thousands of new Greeks to countries in the Western world to find better work, better living conditions. All this, as you can see, is making the country's demographic problem even more difficult. This is already evident in several Member States of the European Union. As a result, the proportion of people aged in the European Union of twenty-eight is shrinking, while the relative number of pensioners is increasing. The proportion of the elderly in the population as a whole will increase significantly over the next few decades, as a significant proportion of the generation of the post-war birth explosion, the so-called "baby boom", reaches the retirement limit. This, in turn, will lead to an increased burden on people who are working age, who should in turn bear the social costs, which are required by the ageing population for a number of relevant policies and services. In the face of this reality and all these samples, therefore, the current government establishes an allowance of 1-1-2020 for the birth of each child, almost without income criteria. One measure, which is certainly welcome, but which is unfortunately too late to change the already shaped trends over the next few decades. Greece, even today, is finding it difficult to redefine the conditions for healthy development and resolution of demographics. The measures, which have so far been promoted, are serious, but under no circumstances are they enough to reverse the negative trends and they are certainly fragmentary. They are in no way part of an overall plan in an overall context to address this so serious issue. The Change Movement, based on the negative development of demographic sizes and on the future look and the new generation, which is mostly plagued by labour precariousness, has tabled a set of proposals to create a coherent, national, demographic policy, some of which have been adopted by the Ministry of Labour and have been incorporated into this bill. However, ladies and gentlemen, because the evolution of demographic sizes is influenced by complex social, economic and political factors, our prolongation has proceeded and tabled a specific amendment, an integrated amendment, as we believe it will make a decisive contribution to the creation of a coherent and integrated family support framework. The measures which we are proposing are essential components of an overall approach to the demographic problem for the effective support of the family at all stages, from the beginning, before birth, from birth and, of course, all stages of a child's upbringing. In particular, beyond the birth allowance, we are talking about 200 euros a month for the child's first three years of life. We are proposing the establishment of the Special Secretariat for Demographic Policy, the drawing up of a national plan for demographic demography by a newly established National Demographic Policy Committee, the establishment of effective advisory and support centres for the municipalities, the subsidisation of subgenous couples for the purposes of assisted reproduction, the transport - and this is very important - of basic baby species in the excessively reduced VAT rate, the safeguarding clause for the rights of multiple families, as well as the integration of third families into multitude families and, of course, the creative employment of children. If we want to be honest, ladies and gentlemen, only with such concrete measures of a universal nature and perception, for a global approach to the problem, we can say that we are moving forward in order to tackle the demographic issue seriously and responsibly, which is disturbing our country. That is why, Minister, it would be wrong not to take into account the amendment that we are tabling to you, since the problem for the state is to see in time what the challenges of the new era are and to be organized with perceptiveness and efficiency. Mr President, I would like to close with this, which concerns a very serious issue, for which the Change Movement has tabled an amendment. Of course, we couldn't wait any longer for the next bill. We have said it and will say it as many times as it takes: unacceptable practices, which operate against Greek citizens, will find us confronted and perpendicular. For this reason, we as a Change Movement have tabled an amendment to abolish the obligation to pay a judicial record in the actions of the Multipartite Court of First Instance, which the Government has adopted some time ago, quite surprisingly, with a delayed parliamentary amendment and without any study, without any consultation with the legal world. The provision is controlled for its constitutionality, as it creates serious problems and obstacles to the access of Greek citizens to justice and, above all, creates a stumbling block for the economically weakest, for the benefit of the most economically powerful citizens. It shall drastically restrict their rights arising from Article 20(1) of the Constitution and shall affect the institution of justice at its core. The serious problems of the Greek judiciary cannot be dealt with by fragmentary measures of the last minute, purely tax-sensitive. And this amendment, which the Minister accepted at the time, is precisely such a measure. The cost of recourse to the courts, especially in the current economic circumstances, must be studied in a comprehensive manner and in no case in photographic arrangements, as was the case with this. The free access of citizens to justice is unnegotiable and we therefore call for Article 42 of Law 4640/2019 to be abolished. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, after ten years of crisis, and since we have now come to light, we must finally talk to the Greek Parliament about the opportunities that we have before us and which open up before us. So let us decide on dynamic measures, which we must take, so that we can seize the first chances of this time, instead of distributing inactively, either for the lost opportunities or for the births, which have not been done, while they could. Today's reality, yes, is admittedly very different from the one we knew, but it is only in our own hand to make it better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and four teachers attending the Kymis Evia High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Papakostas - Old Catherine from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with a view to the future of Greece we are now voting on this draft law. I will start my speech with one question: How old is Greece? It is appalling that only within three decades from today, in 2050 in particular, according to surveys, the population of Greece will be a little more than eight million citizens, with 36% even older than sixty-five years old. So you understand that if we do not take immediate drastic measures in the opposite direction and start to motivate our young people and young people, we will soon become a nation that is numerically declining and constantly ageing. The economic crisis was a large furrow, which we may have been facing for years. One of these has also been infertileness. It is worth noting that in 2011, exactly the deepest point of the crisis, it was the first year that Greece as a country has a negative birth balance since 1944. So the demographic problem, coupled with the demographic problem of Greekism, is also one that shapes a country with the majority of its population to be elderly and young people do not dare, because of the crisis, professional instability and low incomes, to have even one child. Clearly, the economic indicators and the social state in terms of benefits are essential factors in having a family. We therefore see to it that we strengthen young people's incentives to have children and involve our demographic problem. We are motivating, ladies and gentlemen. That is exactly where our policy is based, not in the state of benefits, but in the state of incentives. Strengthen our vulnerable economic fellow citizens by reforming and updating the allowances to date: housing allowance, child allowance, the allowance for mountain and disadvantaged areas, as well as the minimum guaranteed income. In today's society where women have multiple roles, where they form and become professionally acclaimed, the state should not in any way keep them out of everything that they have tried to achieve, but should stand by in their efforts to have a family, providing for the creation of a favourable environment for the support of couples of childbearing ages. The EUR 2 000 allowance, although not a huge sum, is a respectable part of the first costs of a child or of the costs of a child. Clearly, the birth allowance is part of a wider plan by the New Democracy Government for demographics, but also the integration of our country into a system with less bureaucracy, so more simplification. In other words, with a simple request and deposit of the beneficiary's bank account, the allowance will be obtained in just two instalments of EUR 1,000 each. The answer to the question 'who are concerned with the allowance' is clear: the ones to be concerned, without discrimination of a racist nature. I find it hard to see where you are locating, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, the unfair allocation of the allowance, as in most European countries, the beneficiaries must be nationals of the State concerned and be and work legally in that country. In the same way as citizens are taxed, and therefore their obligations are laid down in the State, so benefits are also entitled to them. The 12-year period is a reasonable time and fair criterion, we could say, because it does not distort the real incentive, which in another case of horizontal distribution of the allowance of a family of foreigners or refugees would benefit from birth in our country to obtain the allowance, even if they were subsequently established in another country. In order to clarify the nebula surrounding this issue, in paragraph 1e of Article 7, which states the criteria for obtaining the allowance, it is clear that for children born between 2020 and 2023 and their mother as a third-country citizen stays permanently in Greece since 2012, they will receive the allowance normally. The twelve years we think it is sufficient to develop a strong link between a third-country citizen in our country and the state and the state. In addition, we are talking about an amount that is irreversible and tax-free, which enables highly indebted households with public debts and banks to benefit from a grant to strengthen their family homes. As I said initially in my speech, modernising the bureaucratic system is our main concern, and that is why we are introducing new, automated procedure for issuing the child's registration number and social security registration number into his birth permit. The recipients of the benefit on simple request at their maternity hospital and deposit of their IBAN, will receive the amount at the end of the month. This is how it is defined for all benefits, of course, that they will be paid at the end of each month. So, by moving forward with an absolute consciousness of our decisions, we are linking the basic education for children with the allowances intended for them in this draft law. At least basic education is the foundation of our government's social policy. With this in mind, I will mention the need to increase the care structures of infants and infants, giving the possibility of funding, through the program managed by the Hellenic Society of Local Development and Government of these municipalities and legal persons, in which there are no child and baby care departments. Furthermore, in the context of the overall stirring up of the demographic problem, we include measures such as lowering VAT from 24% to 13% for basic infant species, as well as increasing the tax rate by EUR 1 000 for each minor child, measures which a couple certainly counts very positively before having a child or another new member. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that those who benefit from the present are our young people and young people, who are going to create a family from now on, who are the generation that has experienced and grown up in an economic crisis, for which it is in no way responsible. As a parliamentarian, as a woman, but as a mother I embrace every article in this bill. I sign it, I am voting for it and I undertake to put my own petroleum into a state that, as he leaves the crisis behind, creates opportunities and motivates young people and his new ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that the Minister for Justice has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Rule n. 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of Ministers", as in force, on 28-1-2020: Criminal case against the former Minister of Social Security and Social Solidarity, Achtsioglou, and the former Deputy Minister of the same Ministry of Anastasios Petropoulos and a criminal case against the former Minister of National Defence Apostle - Athanasios Tsohatopoulos. Please come to Stepma, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Eukleidis Tsakalotos. You have the floor for twelve minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to refer to four points. I begin with the question that goes to politicians, to universities: Why does the world disagree? We have different values, we have different theories, we have the same databases, we have different, we have the same values, but we have a different interpretation of these elements. In fact, I do not understand the position of the New Democracy on demographics, not whether there is a demographic problem, but how it is solved. In other words, I do not understand whether from the whole bibliography you disagree with some important conclusions that come out of this literature and have very much agreement from political forces and academics, that the benefits are well paid - and that is why we will vote for the EUR 2 000 for each child - but it wants a comprehensive understanding of the problems. I do not understand, in other words, whether you agree with the main findings of the literature that nursery stations, very important meals, very important safety in the neighborhood, very important to have stable jobs. The reason, I judge, that you have not understood it or at least you have not conveyed your view of this literature is that there is a very important contradiction in your ideology between the hat of neoliberalism and therefore individualism and therefore of the markets that break up social relations and the other hat that is "Parris, religion, family". With neoliberalism in the last thirty years, the family has suffered enormous damage, not only because of unemployment. Mr. Brutsis is in charge of explaining. Mr. Papademos the poor man had 20% unemployment. Mr Brutsis has reached the 28% record, so he is fully aware of the importance of unemployment and the consequences. But it's not just a question of unemployment. Even when there is growth and there is not so much unemployment, we know from all European countries the problems created by families through neoliberal policies. What do you want me to say? For bad jobs? For jobs you need to travel away from the family? So you can't look at the kids? That is why I think you cannot place yourself on this bibliography, because to do so you must get too into your ideology. In other words, the ideology of neoliberalism that creates huge problems for the family that you are supposed to support. Point two. For the cuts for absence from school. In the era of neoliberalism, when it was up and had some hegemony, unfortunately most social democratic parties and centre-right parties have shown the value of responsibility. Although in the political theory, when I was a student, it was not very much the responsibility, now from the '90s and then it was. In the labour market this was used to get allowances only if the unemployed were to show responsibility, that is, that they were looking for work. This created huge economic problems throughout the Western world. If I can't convince you about these huge economic and social problems with the figures, please go and see two - three projects by Ken Louche, to actually see what responsibility on the labour market meant. When people are at their most vulnerable spot, they are forced to look for a job, to travel to work, not knowing where to leave their children. And now you tell the most vulnerable people who get a housing allowance or a child that they should be responsible. That it's their responsibility that kids go to school. I'm not saying there's no responsibility, and at some point something can be imposed, but you get them at their most vulnerable point, and you tell them that all the children of the family will lose the allowance because a child doesn't go to school. And you don't know why. You're gonna have to see a Ken Loots project. Is it because the kid has problems at home? Is it because the child is in trouble because the parents are unemployed? Is it because this kid has a bad attitude because he lives in an unacceptable neighborhood where violence exists and there's no security? Responsibility is not a primary value. It's secondary to sticking the real values. And real value is solidarity. And like comrade Floraki, he was snatched by the word "refresh" you get snatched by the word solidarity. Because you know solidarity works against the way you work. Point third, for the cuts according to origin. Yesterday we had a delegation from the 'Solidarity for All' which went to Moria. It's a disgraceful situation that doesn't honor anyone. We also had problems and did not go as far as we wanted, but neither did we have the ideology of population deformation nor the policy of deterrence. You are talking about the alteration of our own culture. What culture are you talking about? Have you seen the pictures of the kids in the trash schools? Yesterday. Have you seen the pictures of kids washing out, Genoa, next to the trash? Are you afraid this civilization will be corrupted? Is that the western civilization you're afraid of? The media culture that says nothing about these things? The culture where the social state is shrinking, where there is permanent austerity? Is that culture? I remind you of something I said in another debate. When they asked Mahatma Gandhi, in the '30s it seems to me, perhaps earlier, what he has in mind about Western civilization, his answer was that 'it would be a good idea to exist'. I am not afraid of the alteration of Western civilization by immigrants and refugees. I fear the alteration of Western civilization, however good it may be from the means and policies. Everywhere there is racism there is or precedent for stigmatisation by the state. You say that for migrant children their parents must have 12 years of tax information. Too bad Mrs. Michalidou isn't here. I would like to ask her personally what she means. A female immigrant who comes here twenty-five years old must become thirty-seven to get the allowance? Isn't that what you're saying? Am I wrong? It's got to wait 12 years. But when you stigmatize them as another charge, then racism comes out. This is how it happened in Northern Ireland when the British made the Catholics second class. Then there was the racism of the protesters against the Catholics. This is how racism took place in the southern states of America when the state said that they were inferior citizens with fewer rights than Africans. You who are with liberalism - I am not talking now about neoliberalism - are not entitled to make provisions with such discrimination. There must be provisions for children not to stigmatize that immigrants have fewer rights because that fuels racism. Point 4. Unfortunately, Mr. Lambroulis left. It was a matter of the JRC. I understand from Mr Lambroulis that he actually said that what we are doing and what the New Democracy did for the social state is about the same. And what was Mr. Lambroulis' argument? The argument was that we are also saying that benefits and social policy are helping development. And since they're helping growth, they're helping capitalists and capitalist profit. I wanted to tell Mr. Lambroulis that the first lesson of philosophy in Marxism is dialectic. Because at the same time capitalism increases productive forces as ever at a terrible rate, it destroys peoples, peoples, lives at the same time. That's why it's dialectic. There is a great contradiction within capitalism with two principles. There is the principle of market expansion and there is the principle of expanding needs. That's a big contradiction. All of us, I think, also the Change Movement and the Mer25 and the JRC, support, more of us less, the expansion of the sphere of needs. I mean, a sphere of protection from the market. A sphere where the public will have the first reason, where the value of solidarity will have the first reason. We understand that we will have opponents from this side and understand that this is an important part of the evolution of dialectics in society and the economy. Only by striving to extend the principle of needs and rights can you slowly become visionary of a different society. And I'm telling the JRC: I didn't come here to teach them Marxism lessons, but I wanted to tell them not to use Marxism to avoid taking a position on important issues that our people need. I would also like to say to the JRC, and I say it to Mera25, and I say it to the Change Movement: Do not look for an alibi, whatever this may be, not to organise this battle to expand the space of needs against the market. Yesterday, Andreas Xanthos begged all the progressive forces in the field of health and the privatization of the health that we will expect from this band for a social and political alliance. The same applies to work. You, neither will you, nor you, nor you, unless we organise - primarily in the social sphere and then in the political sphere - a great tide against what is being done in the workplace. Finally, Mr President, to keep time, and in this bill today, do not look for an alibi. We know exactly what is going on in this bill. We know that there is no answer to the demographics through this bill. There's no overall plan. There are also cutbacks in allowances. There are the values of responsibility and values that are the stigmatisation of specific social groups. And there is no one of us who wants to call himself a communist, radical leftist, socialist progressively no alibi to be able together to prevent what is happening before your eyes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u148	We continue with my colleague Mrs Vetta Calliope from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill could be called emblematic in many respects and for the political reality of the country. First of all, it is emblematic because it uses the term 'benefit' in its title. We all remember the attack by the SYRIZA government on the creation of a protective grid for our vulnerable fellow citizens who had been tested both in the period of '10-14 and previously in the years of furnished prosperity. We all remember the attacks on allowances, which were considered counter-development and counterproductive. The word was slandered and made by neoliberal preachers as synonym of inertia and decline. Not by chance, of course, because the New Democracy is being thrown away everything that concerns the social state and intervention policies. That is why it has supported social solidarity, support and support for our fellow citizens as an uneconomical, therefore a useless and harmful measure. Anyone who has contact with society, however, can ask a simple question to them hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens, who this year for the first time after three years have been deprived of the social dividend, if they are happy with this development. To also ask pensioners if they are satisfied with the abolition of the thirteenth pension we had introduced by law and were attributed in a progressive and proportionate manner to all pensioners for 2019 in the first memorandum year. Ask the market, even the malls, which you are rushing to support in a number of decisions if the social dividend warmed up the movement of holidays. Everyone's gonna answer you the same. In addition, the Chambers have said that this year there has been a sharp drop in turnover, because allowances, ladies and gentlemen, are developmental, because they are back all over the economy, unlike tax relief for the high-paid, simply saving or transporting abroad to offshore. We therefore welcome the New Democracy to the common sense, which says that, when you need to support a policy, you are funding it through the people you choose to support. We wanted to support our fellow citizens who were faced with a humanitarian crisis that flowed to the piles of energy poverty that their children fainted in schools that did not have access to health and safety. Recently these were, some years ago, for this first bill of 2015 they were to deal with the humanitarian crisis, and your first deposit of the bill concerned the "final state" and the appointment of your transferors, who is still going on. The 'invisible hand of the market', ladies and gentlemen, works for the benefit of many, but only the privileged ones. The vulnerable and the poor want support and measures both institutional and economic. They want structures, dignity and vision, which we have given. Let me just remind you that the six hundred and fifty thousand beneficiaries of 2017 became four hundred seventy thousand in 2019, because the rest found work and responded to the social solidarity allowance. That means social policy. On this occasion, I would like to refer a reference to an argument that has been used in the last few days to establish the social solidarity benefit in your days. You did create the guaranteed social income, but it was pilot. It concerned only certain regions of the country at the beginning, with far less beneficiaries - thirty thousand in particular - who were being treated as bad by the administrative structure, while there were great delays in payments, which were up to twelve months. The social solidarity allowance, on the contrary, was transparent, with electronic procedures that we set up, rapid and regular payments, and concerned hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens - six hundred and fifty thousand in particular - who were treated with dignity. Comparisons are catalytic and fortunately we didn't all lose our memory. Today's bill is also emblematic, because at last your announcement is being implemented, which has a positive sign, even though it is significantly modified, since the birth allowance will enter two instalments, which we do not agree and we have already tabled an amendment on the one-off payment, which we call on you to support. In conclusion, I would like to stress the following. The demographic, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be treated by fireworks. The implementation of an electoral announcement, even if it was flirting openly with the right-wing rhetoric for beneficiaries, is not compared to the targeted policy to support the demographic problem, which was very well reflected by the committee we set up and which gave us valuable conclusions. It is done with school meals that covered the needs of thousands of schools, with the inclusion of all children at school stations for the first time in 2019 thanks to the Voucher provision and the introduction of two-year compulsory pre-school education, a measure for which the political representatives of the New Democracy at all levels were initially opposed. This is social policy; long-term, duration and targeting; not with one-off payments suitable only for headlines and repository reviews from the media balls. Nor can it be done by the punishing attitude that is adopted and I am referring specifically to the loss of all the benefits that a family is entitled to if even a child loses one class at his school. Finally, I would like to inform basically those who are following us that SYRIZA, loyal to its logic of targeted demographic policy, has tabled an amendment to the organic integration of creative employment centres for children and children with disabilities into the administrative structure of the municipalities that are part of it. These structures with their employees fully support the Greek family. I would remind you that sixty-seven-and-a-half thousand children have joined the CSRs in 2019-20 and some four and a half thousand disabled people, and we must shield them even further, including them in the permanent municipal services, so that they can form another support mechanism for the family in our country. In conclusion, I would like to stress that social policy has never been your strongest point, since according to neoliberalism there is only society for you. With today's bill it turns out that you are consistent with this line, as in a positive measure you put asterisks, enter exceptions, make cuts, punish off offenders. Even here, as in the debate on the Constitution, on labour and taxation, the concept of social rights, total and inalienable, is causing you allergy. No surprise for us. The same applies to the Greek society that already experiences the frustration and deception of your great words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u150	I call to Stepma Mrs Sukouli - Villali Maria - Helen from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u151	Thank you very much, Mr President. The fact that Mr Tsakalotos had and has too many questions on many issues over the last five years has been well understood by the Greek people. The fact that he does not realize that the solution to the demographic problem is also about strengthening and protecting the Greek family, really makes me wonder. And I hope it's not sticky, Mr. Chakaloto. Ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to place ourselves on the draft law of our Government regarding childbirth allowance. Most of all, however, we have to speak openly and I hope very much for the serious demographic problem facing the country. It is a major issue for which we should also be aware of Greek society as well. Let us inform her that there is a serious demographic problem which, according to forecasts, will deteriorate in the coming years if it is not planned and not a modern national demographic policy framework. The country's Prime Minister in time set demographics as a priority in the election process and with the appropriate responsibility and speed we are doing post-elections. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no time to lose, for further oligopoly. This is a major national issue as a starting point, let me try and quickly describe the country's demographic data. The central observation, as recorded by the competent bodies, is that in recent decades the country's population pyramid has changed. The causality of the above demographic imaging is largely due to the fact that birth rates are decreasing while life expectancy increases. Needless to stress that the economic crisis and migration, particularly of young people, has speeded up the demographic trend above, so that we are moving even faster towards an older population. Ladies and gentlemen, since 2011, the population of the country has fallen, while it continues to age. A characteristic feature, according to the latest survey of INTERNEOSIS, is that the fertility index for 2006 is only 1.38, that is to say one of the lowest in the world. In Greece, for the first time, fewer than 100 thousand children a year are born. The Greek women have their first child at the age of thirty years on average and one at four more than thirty-five. The data are deteriorating according to demographic data evolution projections. A lot of scenarios have been heard and positive and negative about what our population will be like in 2050 and the normal population, but also the one we call active economics. Scenarios other positive or other negative, but in case they are scenarios that should worry us and wake us individually and collectively. Ladies and gentlemen, this demographic data is not a zero sum. They cross horizontally with the relevant negative consequences of important areas of action of the Greek society and state, such as our economy, our educational system, insurance, and even security and defence issues. Ladies and gentlemen, there seems to be a direct link between good demographic data and economic development, because the increase in the active economic population also entails an increase in productivity. In insurance, reducing the number of people working age while increasing the number of people in retirement age means simply that there will be a rapid increase in social costs at a significant cost in our insurance system. According to ELSTAT there will be approximately three people working age for a person in social expenditure, which will disproportionately affect the first age group. But in the geopolitical field, the population of each country is also an element of power. And not to forget that our country is not in a neutral and political environment. With the risk of our eastern neighbour's review policy, we understand that the country's deterrent force must be our priority. And along with defence and security expenditure, this government has in the first place the social costs necessary to maintain internal social cohesion and balance. I think they make the reversal of demographic data that is a direct priority of the Greek state. We are moving on to brave policies to improve the country's demographic composition. Her family and support are the first shot of our choices. Today, with the draft law on the allowance of EUR 2 000 for the birth of a child, we actively support and motivate the strengthening of the birth rate in the country. At the same time, with the updating of additional allowances - housing, minimum guaranteed income and less-favoured mountain areas which have been heard many - we are strengthening the active protection of the family. I would like to refer to this point, and in any case we need to consider the question of proper harmonisation and implementation of the law on matters relating to family life and work relations, that is, the relationship between the roles of the mother and the worker. And of course I think you should look very seriously at the modernisation of the institutional framework. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the country's demographic problem is being offered a political consensus and consensus. Our government is heading in this direction boldly, because it has realised that now is the time for decisive action. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks are few. Let's all contribute together so we don't get any less. We owe it to our historic route. We owe it home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the House, seventy-one students and students and four teachers from the 3rd Drama General School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides]] I will now call Mr. Thraniotis Emmanuel from SYRIZA for seven minutes at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate today concerns a very serious issue relating to the demographic and future of our country. The OXFAM report of the largest global anti-poverty and inequality organisation, which records the evolution of the global economy, was published some time ago. Among other things, it notes that the two thousand hundred and fifty-three billionaires of the world have more money than 60% of the world's population. Secondly, that one of the main causes of the over-performance of the great wealth is the reduction of taxation on very rich and large enterprises and tax evasion. Thirdly, the participation of the very rich in world tax revenues touches only 4% while their tax evasion is estimated at 30%. At the same time, dividends are increasing by 30% while salaries are only 3%. In another report, that of the World Bank, it is noted that half the world's population is trying to survive just $5.5 a day, about $170 a month. It seems that from there, apparently, the Minister of Economy argued that a citizen can live up to 200 euros a month. Of all this, it is clear that the unequal distribution of wealth and the widening of inequalities or more simply that the rich are becoming richer and richer and the poorer. The result of this inequality comes to worsen the low birth rate and the abrupt ageing of Europe's population. While the world population as a whole is ageing, Europe is an extreme example of this trend, especially in the southern and eastern regions of the continent, which is confronting Europe with a demographic crisis. We are talking about a Europe that does not manage to inspire, and where the poet Tasos Livaditis quite rightly prophetically writes in the poem: "...but at night, as a board of sad shipwrecks, our old continent travels." This is a crisis that, according to economists, can cause growth to blow. Portugal, Greece, Italy and Spain are among the ten economies with the lowest number of births per woman. Southern Europe as a whole has a fertility rate of 1.37%, well below the 2% limit required for natural replacement of the population. Great unemployment, poor labour prospects, low wage expectations combined with a lack of family support policies and flexible working relationships lead couples to have fewer children and older. Ladies and gentlemen, in our country the demographic situation has deteriorated even worse by the violent adaptation of the restrictive policy measures imposed on us, the well-known measures which have led to the loss of 25% of national income, the reduction of wages and pensions by 40%, the evacuation of unemployment to 27.6% at the end of 2014, which we delivered to 17% and now reintroduces the rise. The main thing, however, is that these policies have led to the migration of an entire generation of young people with huge negative consequences for the country's ability to maintain a elementary demographic balance. It is the consequences of your policies that have led to bankruptcy, which, strangely, you want to forget, as if the Greek state were suddenly created in January 2015. And it's at least courageous to shake your finger on SYRIZA. The new Republic's rapporteur in a report on ideas - I am not saying - wanted to devalue, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to take measures taken by the SYRIZA Government. So he tried to do the white one. To address such a serious issue that concerns and threatens the foundations and future of Greek society, it is important to approach it with modesty and seriousness. In this direction, our adviser should be the conclusion of the Intergroup of Parliamentary Committee on Population, which, for one and a half years under the chairmanship of my colleague Sis Anagnostopoulou, the contribution of all the Members of the Commission and the participation of the scientific community, has reached with a large majority a commonly accepted conclusion on the treatment of demographics, the fight against inequalities and the support of socially vulnerable groups. Let us point out that there was a similar parliamentary procedure in 1993, twenty-seven years ago, time sufficient for a favoured state to launch solutions. Unfortunately, all these years, few steps have taken. On the contrary, in 2015, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government received a budget for the social state of 750 million and in 2019 it raised it to 3.5 billion. Of these 3.5 billion, 1.4 billion concerned expenditure on child in one way or another. Let me remind you of the measures taken by our government in the field of social policy. We have increased the minimum wage and abolished the subordinate in an attempt to raise the average national wage, which, according to the latest OECD figures, our country is close to the risk of poverty. We have strengthened social income, which you are now abolishing. We increased the position of the child station from seventy-nine thousand in 2015 to a hundred seventy thousand in 2019. We set up the school meals, seventy - one million to eighty thousand portions. We legislated on taking up and adopting, reducing the time a child needs to find a family. We created the electronic platform for the CRL and integrated the social benefits, about two hundred, through the OPECA for more transparency. We have included in the budget the recruitment of four thousand five hundred special-educational teachers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. If you are indeed interested in protecting the child beyond the EUR 2 000 allowance, which is a positive measure and we support it, take care of permanent staff in the centres for the creative employment of children and children with disabilities, CSR and CSR for the municipal children's stations and accept SYRIZA's amendment. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, we have implemented it through a suffocating economic crisis. And we've achieved enough. And to the question, not yours, but the citizens, how we did it: with respect for the sacrifices of the Greek people. In our priorities, they were neither futuristic, nor advertising campaigns, nor excessive remuneration to PPC executives that you appointed, while unjustifiedly increasing the price of electricity and bills. Today, after seven months of governance, you prefer a policy which, through media friends, promotes an idyllic image for the country, which does not correspond to reality, which the Greek people are already beginning to understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u154	The speaker of the New Democracy, George Karasmanis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill relating to demographics, that is to say, the very substance, the future and the prospect of the country. The government consistently implements all its announcements, just as it is now doing with this bill establishing the child's birth allowance of EUR 2 000, as well as the financing of the municipalities with a view to operating more nurseries to ensure a position on all the families in need. At the same time, other changes are made to the existing children's and rent allowances, as well as to the social solidarity allowance, which is renamed'minimum guaranteed income'. We have all spoken about this in a documented and thorough manner by our rapporteur, like other colleagues. I would like to point out that all this is part of the formulation of a modern demographic policy in order to reverse the negative demographic trend. Our country's demographic problem has been developing dramatically over the past few decades. It began to escalate since the beginning of the 1980s. Until that time, Greece, with a birth rate of 2.1 per woman, had a marginal guarantee of the renewal of the generations. Since then, the problem has been growing, and in recent years it has received explosive proportions, making it the biggest threat to our nation. In recent years in our homeland, deaths have exceeded the births by tens of thousands. In other words, there is a growing trend in the supremacy of birth deaths compared with the births of over 20%. Of course, 20% of these births come from women of foreign nationality, which makes the problem even worse. In all the regions of our country birth deaths are outweighed, even though life expectancy has improved. Our priests are more frequent outward sequences than marriage and baptism mysteries. Greece, that is, declines populations and ages dangerously. All this, tragically, confirms the Commission's reports on publicity at times and present evidence of the birth of the population in Europe. For Greece, according to these reports, the figures are shocking. With a target of 2060, people of production age will be reduced to four million six hundred thousand, seven million hundred thousand today. In other words, there will be a loss of two and a half million people able to work. This also demonstrates the impeccable prospect for the insurance funds in our country, the maintenance of our upward power, and the kind of growth that we can hope for and plan. Today pensioners and unemployed are the majority of our population. For our country there can be no future and no family prospects and an increase in births, which ensures not only the renewal of generations but also the growth of the population. The economic crisis, of course, strongly affected the natural change in the population, as unemployment discourages many young people from creating a family. Moreover, the crisis alienated many young and young people, the most productive part of the population, to mass migration. Even graduates and skilled young people, whose homeland is based on its radical reconstruction, are forced to seek better luck abroad. Immigration, however, is a two-way road. Apart from the outflow of Greeks abroad, it is a massive wave of foreigners who for different reasons have entered our homeland in search of better luck, but by altering the naturality of the nation. If this trend continues, I am very afraid that in a few years' time we will be a minority in our own country. In conclusion, the number one problem in our country is demographic. It develops into a time bomb on the foundations of the nations, precisely because of the subgenitality and ageing of the population, which attracts explosive proportions, with grim prospects for the future. The support of multitude families should therefore not be in the nature of charity, but it is compulsory for the state to support the institution of the family with permanent, concrete measures, policy measures at school, family, work and society. I believe that in an effort to improve the living conditions and quality of the multitude family, we have Kyriakos Mitsotakis. And he does this not only by obligation, as Prime Minister, but also because he is a parent of a multiple family and a father of three children. I believe that by the end of the four-year period there will be a budget space for other support measures for the multiple families. And a personal report. I come from a multiple family. I've experienced a deep sense of the needs of the multitude family. That is why I call on you to vote in favour of this bill, which is a step forward, is a start. And the beginning, as you know, is half of everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u156	Please come to Stepma, my colleague from the New Democracy, Mr. Publicas Anastasios, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u157	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the present draft law of the Ministry of Labour, "A birth allowance and other provisions", the government seeks to tackle the declining population in our country. It is necessary to formulate and implement a modern demographic policy, which is judged urgently, taking into account the recent elements of ELSTAT. The population in our country will reach eight million in 2050, while in Pakistan, I would like you to notice that, from two hundred and twenty million, it will disappear to four hundred million, that is, a population explosion - a bomb. The consequences will be disastrous for the viability of our insurance system, the health system, the labour market, the deterrent force of the army, the national defense of the country and not just. In addition, staffing problems will arise in the Armed Forces and in the Security Body, as well as in their productive schools, because, as you know, the deficit will be evident. After a problematic four years of governance of the country by SYRIZA, during which the country regressed economically, socially, but also at value level, the scene is even more unfavourable. We called, as opposition, for a special committee on the progress and development of Thrace to be set up in 1991 by the late Constantine Mitsotakis. Unfortunately, the previous government has deplorably ignored our proposals. The New Democracy has been electorally announcing a web of modern family protection policies. The announcements shall be made by one to one, and shall be prompted by each of the relevant Ministrys. I remind you of the tax-free for every child we voted recently. Let us not forget the initiative of the Ministry of Labour, the so-called Rebrain Greece, presented last month by the diligent Minister, Giannis Vroutzis. It is a decent call to return to the young scientists who left Greece to travel abroad. With the draft law under discussion, the grant of a 2 000 euro birth allowance for each child born in Greece from 1-1-2020 is for the first time introduced. The aim is to grant the allowance to be horizontal and almost universal, with two transparent conditions, that of income and that of permanent and legal residence in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, I keep moving in my constituency and in my home country, where is Evros, I run it almost across the side and put comparative marks. The problem is particularly acute in our region and above all in the northern part of the prefecture. According to statistics, Evros in 2019 had a thousand twelve births and a thousand five hundred forty-five deaths. The figures speak for themselves. I would like us all to ask ourselves in this Chamber whether we are from an outlying region or not, whether we have made our term of office near the border or not. Can you consider what Evros, which is a land border, means to remain uninhabited? Can you also consider what it means to the islands of the north-eastern and south-eastern Aegean and, indeed, to the recent government's subsidy to them? What's next day? It seems to me, with a precursor of national amputation! If a village disappears in Central Greece, which I served and appreciate and love it or in the Peloponnese, it is very sad. If a village goes out to Evros or to the islands it is a national blow. Because it's an active camp, it's a city, it's a major formation. And the script isn't far away. It's going on. The reasons for infertility in the remote continental and island regions, according to a study carried out by the University of Piraeus, are differentiated from those in force in the rest of the country. The difficulty of accessing health services, the high cost of childbirth and prenatal control, are key reasons for preventing new couples living in these areas from childbirth. The measure which the government is putting under discussion and resolution today is precisely aimed at the economic relief of new couples who wish to give birth to them. The vision of the New Democracy is therefore not based on cheap subsidised policies. He knows the core of the problem and aims, with the right recipe, at his treatment. There is still much to be done, and above all in the outermost regions, a combination of policies which will help reverse the negative forecasts: access to decent and staffed health structures. Reducing unemployment, supporting and protecting the new mother, access to nurseries, measures to reconcile family and working life. The New Democracy, while maintaining its worthy core in its entirety, has modern and realistic family protection policies and implements them with faith. That is why I am voting in favour of the law under discussion and in this direction I call on all Members and colleagues to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u158	Please come to Stepma, SYRIZA MP, Spyridon Lappas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President, warmly to you and Mrs Raptti for giving me the position to go immediately to the pre-examination committee which meets on the upper floor. I heard as long as I was here the speakers. And I think it was an impressive position of our Parliamentary representative, Euklidis Tsakalotou, with whom I fully agree with this point, Mr President: there is no doubt that the demographic issue is a rough bomb for both our country and for a number of countries of the west. We also have to agree that - because it is multifactorial - the demographic problem is a bomb not only for economic reasons. Because if it were for economic reasons, countries that have prosperous for decades, such as the north, and especially Scandinavia, would have solved the problem. And that hasn't happened. So, Mr President, I remembered something we talked about in many bills and something that has been happening for ten years in our country. There is no doubt that some Western countries, like Greece, which had been subject to memorial policies, experienced a political situation in an emergency. And there the great question that emerged is: What is democracy and how it is won in such circumstances, namely poverty, monuments, austerity, a restrictive policy. And today I went to Stepma mainly to talk about the issue of justice in an amendment we have. It is not only the question of what democracy is and how it is won in the conditions of austerity, restrictive policies, that is, neoliberalism. But there is another major and very serious problem - and I would like to discuss it with all sides and with honesty - which is what is fairness and how it is awarded, when even the largest ‘pence’ minds of the world as intellectuals from the time of Xyloures, Papaioannou, Kastoriadis, Condylis, Habermas, Bauman, Zizek, Stiglic and Krugmann, noblers, say that the financial sector of the economy has completely dominated politics. And we say that the justice sector has not escaped from this domination. And since I make this point as a foreword, Mr President, I remember a phrase by the professor of civil law, Kostas Bey, and I do not know whether he is a legal person by the ministers - which had said this and now in the 21st century. "In the time of air connection between Greece and Sweden, Norway and Finland, it is about three to four hours. Our contact and connection in a just culture and level are over two centuries". And that is very important and the political system needs to be charged to it and see what it will do. So I go directly to the issue that we are concerned with as a legal community. The issues of the bill were raised very well by our rapporteur and our parliamentary representative, whom I endorse and fully agree. You should know that at social level the core of the legal state has given him literature. I remember a phrase of Kazantzakis saying that the only way to save yourself is to fight for others or others. And some here support the tripartite "father, religion, family". For homeland it has been said that patriocardial can be translated into a homeland. But also when religion is translated into religion, I will recall the words of the apostle Paul: “Others you bear the burdens.” In other words, there is a fair distribution of all burdens. So when you talk about homeland and religion, see what those who interest them have said to those you refer to. Otherwise it is nothing but a huge political hypocrisy. Mr President, today we have tabled an amendment. You all remember very well, ladies and gentlemen, how the night-to-night amendment came to the bill, where it restored an abrogated provision and forced the parties to seek legal protection in accordance with the Constitution and European law as they have been included in the conventions we have signed, which we have ratified, to have the right to appeal to the courts to recognise a right of the citizen. Intervening and prohibiting or restricting or altering the right to legal protection, that is also unconstitutional, but also violating provisions of Union law. Mr Colleague, that's right. Ad hoc there are not only judges' judgments such as the associations of judges and prosecutors, who considered that such an obligation for the citizen to provide legal protection in the recognition of a legal relationship is also illegal and incompatible but, above all, unconstitutional for the Greeks. However, at Union law level, the Court of Human Rights has judged this in many cases ad hoc. Why, then, did the Government bring you such a provision of a memorial character when you are out of memorial? And when we under law 4446 in 2016 -- may not in a memorandum but in a very tough surveillance situation -- we have freed any man who will appeal to court to recognise a legal relationship with a judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen, we have done something else. We have freed the labor actions of up to 50,000 of the payment of a legal notice. This is, therefore, the social nature of certain decisions of the political system or of the previous government, which in fact means both justice and the government of many of the progressive areas. Now listen. Why are we insisting that this is not just an unconstitutional and unfair decision of the government, but must it quickly be taken back? Because you cannot say that we are Europeans and we are returning to regularity. What regularity? When all judicial associations tell you to get this provision back, what regularity are you talking about? Are you talking about what you have in mind? Isn't it normal for the judges, the judiciary in Greece? Can you hear her? Or have you been deaf? Do you see the judgments of the European Court of Justice? You don't? You must have blindness. So listen, Mr President - and I am closing - why the government must now quickly take this regulation back. Firstly, it opposes and violates the fundamental right of the weak financially - I stress it - to provide legal protection by the courts, Article 20 of the Constitution. Secondly, you are putting an unjustified procedural barrier to the provision of legal protection by the courts, which is essentially equivalent to the immediate abolition of the right in question. Because it has been judged by both Greek and European courts that any restriction legally constitutes a abolition of the right. Thirdly, without any adequate legal explanation, it makes it from an unsatisfactory economic point of view to the impossibility of recourse to justice for a judgment on redress, which is not even enforceable. When he makes it an executioner, he shall pay the signature required by the party. So why do you want it to be done in advance if the party does not want to choose the enforceability of the title and I am mostly talking to the lawyers. Fourthly, it is contrary to the established case-law of the Supreme Court. I will only mention one decision. It's 675/2010. Solve the ad hoc thing. And you come and undo the established case-law and judgments of the European Court of Human Rights? Why are you doing this? Are you saying that you can still, apart from memoranda, decide budgetary measures at the expense of the administration of justice? Is that a rule of law? Is that normal? Is that a favoured state? Think it over, please! And when I was asking the Ministers for Justice, Mr. Kranis was rather condescendingly moving his head by agreeing, and Mr. Tsiaras was not a lawyer, he could not understand what it means to the justice system, to be able in a financial way to make it difficult for legal protection under Article 20 of the Constitution. Fifthly and finally, it runs counter to the established case-law of the European Court of Human Rights. I've got a lot of decisions. I'll give them a picture of them. Mr Colleague, from the Change Movement, I have to tell you that this decision - and I agree with you - is not a decision demoralized and comes to the bronze. It complements the puzzle of all the initiatives taken by the Ministry of Justice, which is in an incomprehensible direction. Firstly, the transfer of penitentiary and counter-criminal policy to the Protection of the Citizen. In other words, they make the creation of penalties the third pillar of justice - fundamental criminal law, the Code of Criminal Procedure, i.e. penitentiary - in matters of security, violating basic principles of the rule of law. Not to mention the arrangements you have made for the infidelity of the bank executives who have said they want to be indicted against themselves, nor for the release of their assets for serious offences. All these are decisions which must not be taken within the framework of a rule of law and we should, if the Ministers for Justice hear us now, immediately and today also bring an amendment to remove this, which also affects Greek justice and the judges, but above all the lawyers. Mr President, I close with this on lawyers: you must not forget that lawyers are not just professionals. The legal body, ladies and gentlemen of the Change Movement, is indeed as noble as virtue, as necessary as justice. So we are talking about justice and everyone can understand what we mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u160	The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Zoe Raptis, has called for and had a toll for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, Ministers and Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I am very happy to take part today in this debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, a bill which, in fact, sets out one of the new legislative bases proposed by the New Democracy to address the great demographic problem of our country, which - we have all said - has been constantly getting worse over the past decade. At the same time as this draft law lays down the conditions required for the overall strengthening of family cohesion and social cohesion, which in the years of the crisis have been severely affected. This is how we first introduce a birth allowance and update the conditions for granting other benefits and, above all, the child's allowance, the housing allowance, the minimum guaranteed income and the payments of mountain and disadvantaged areas. Unfortunately, it is regrettable that in our country over the last decade due to the economic crisis, but also to the mistakes of the SYRIZA government, the issue of infertility has taken greater proportions, because for the first time post-war years since 2011 there has been a reduction in Greece's population, and since 2015 it has been taking dramatic proportions and we have seen a worrying disparity between births and mortality rates in our country. Recently, and in 2015, deaths are now surpassing births and in the last year deaths have exceeded births by forty - three thousand of our fellow humans. According to all the forecasts and based on what the committee of Parliament has heard, from the Commission's conclusion and from a study by Mr. Gujamani, Professor of the University of Thessaly, the country's population according to the worst forecasts in 2050 will account for about eight million three thousand inhabitants. This declining population is, as is well known, linked to a number of other issues which have a negative impact on growth, which is inextricably linked to the youth labour force that is constantly decreasing, the maintenance of the older population of the country, the manning of the military units, especially in this critical period when neighbouring Turkey is escalating its aggressiveness, the sustainability of the social security system, as the small number of births combined with the increase of pensioners leads with mathematical accuracy in the collapse of our country's socio-security system. However, what SYRIZA has done over the four and a half years of governance to address the demographic problem, so that he has the courage to walk us today for our proposal for a birth allowance, which, however, - timid! - will he vote? He had probed a presumption of having a child. He had tightened the conditions for receiving the allowance for the first and second children the New Democracy had established, making it more unfavourable in income criteria. He had cut allowances of EUR 48 million from third and multitude. It had reduced the tax rate of up to 3,000 euros for parents with two children to tenant families. On the contrary, we in this bill, implementing the pre-election commitment of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, grant for the first time an allowance for every child born in Greece as of January 1, 2020 as an important support for the creation of a family and for meeting the first needs created for the baby to be born. This allowance, as has been said, does not fall under any category of income, is exempted from any tax, levy or public contribution, is not seized, nor is it offset by established debts to public or credit institutions, and is not counted against total actual or imputable family income. The aim is to provide horizontal and almost universal provision under the following two conditions: The income below a certain limit and the permanent and legal residence on the territory. The introduction of this 12-year residence for citizens of third countries is a matter of conscience and is assessed as capable of substantiating the intention of permanent and legitimate residence and of creating a strong link with the State and the host society, despite the unreserved objections of the Anti-Population Officer who wishes, by insisting on her ideas, the unconditional and unconditional grant of this allowance for every child born in the country, without even taking into account the fiscal stability factor or, much more, the promotion and legal capacity of the third country citizen to stay in Greece and to raise her child in this Greek society. On a second level, our Government updates the conditions for granting the existing allowances and, above all, the child, housing, minimum guaranteed income and benefits for mountains and disadvantaged areas, and the Deputy Minister rightly so, Mrs Michailidou connects it with the entry of the dependent child into school and the actual student of this and I would therefore like this step to congratulate her on this. This ensures that all children are given access to compulsory education, which is a key priority for each organised state. Education is the most important supply for every citizen, the main prerequisite for social mobility and the main prerequisite for its social integration. It is therefore a self-evident provision for our Government to ensure that those who are beneficiaries of these grants fulfil the basic obligations of parental care and provide their children with the opportunity to develop their personality, but also the necessary facilities to join the Greek society. In any case, there is no cost reduction in the area of allowances, as the Civic Opposition claims once again. On the other hand, there is a streamlining of the terms of granting so that, on the one hand, the misuse of the financial aid in question is prevented and, on the other hand, there is a fight against the case of a school leak which, as our rapporteur mentioned, touches on two thousand and three hundred. In particular, as regards guaranteed income, which will be granted on the basis of income criteria and on the condition that children are registered and actually paid to school, I would like to remind you that as we all know, it was the New Democracy Government that, for the first time, established in Greece the minimum guaranteed income and was under the Minister of Yiannis Vroutzis with State Secretary, Mr Kegeroglu, and I would like to congratulate you on this legislation which came in a time of crisis and proved that the New Democracy really has a person, who is the person of social solidarity. The minimum guaranteed income had obviously been legislated in pilot form with the pilot program of the minimum guaranteed income, and now SYRIZA comes and simply changes it in one of the many dyes he makes during his term of office and tries to settle the sign of a so-called welfare government that cares for the weaker. However, our government has legislated this, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, and now under the presidency of Mr Mitsotakis, it has been established at the initiative of our Government and in constitutional terms, in accordance with Article 21 of the Constitution, in the recent amendment that we have made. It is therefore clear that care for the weak and needy is not the privilege of the Left. Finally, in the context of the above initiatives by the Government to support the family, we must also take into account a number of other measures which constitute a first part of the broader planning of the New Democracy to support the Greek family and address the demographic problem. Indicatively, our Government applies two-year pre-school education, has predicted and voted a lower rate of VAT from 24% to 13% for all kinds of infants and is now facilitating access to funding for the municipalities of the country, so that we can have more nurseries running. It has also increased the tax rate by EUR 1,000 for each child, and has voted for the provision for the IX laundry, so that it is not considered a luxury presumption, if it is over 2,000 cubic metres, and there is provision for this in the immediate future as well. Finally, I should like to say a few words on the economic security to which Mrs Fotou referred, economic security, which has been fully guaranteed by the SYRIZA Government. It is a given fact that a very important factor in birth growth is security and economic stability and is therefore worthy of wonder how you dare talk about the climate of economic security during your administration, when, in your own age, there was only insecurity, after you closed the banks, you have brought capital control, you have signed a third unjustified memorandum with unbearable burdens on the Greek people and you have overtaxed the middle class by collecting an additional 11.4 billion of the required targets. Instead, our country with Kyriakos Mitsotakis managed to borrow with negative interest rates, upgraded by international rating houses as recently as "Fitch" as a valuable and at the same time reducing tax burdens from the shoulders of citizens and businesses. This is a safe environment and not what you inherited us, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. You are further telling us that our government regards the money given under the minimum guaranteed income as charity. However, it seems to me that you are forgetting that the 2020 budget for the total expenditure of the social security institutions has increased in relation to the original 2019 budget. Therefore, the cuts you want to see as a Civic Opposition - noteworthy I would remind you that you have abolished the NSA of the low pensioners in the third Memorandum - is nothing more than construction, since neither the per capita income nor the number of beneficiaries suffers from any reduction, as is apparent from the report of the General Accounting Office of the State. Finally, as far as unemployment is concerned, you are also falsely claiming, once again, that unemployment in the New Democracy Government has been constantly increasing. In this irresponsible position, of course, the Minister, Mr Brutsi, has been in detail. However, ELSTAT’s figures since July 2019 confirm the truth that New Democracy’s policies have strengthened employment. In particular, according to these data, in October 2019 and for fourth in a month, the overall unemployment rate has declined further and reached 16.6% compared to 18.5% in the corresponding month of 2018. Therefore, your position is once again a long way from reality, as the Minister said. Ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, the demographic problem and its treatment is a matter of immediate priority for all. Therefore, voting in favour of this draft law which lays the foundations for a modern demographic policy is more than necessary, because it is a national obligation for all of us. This effort, which will soon be framed by further relevant initiatives, is another proof that Kyriakos Mitsotakis and our Government remain faithful to its election commitments and, in particular, within such a short time of its election. So far from populism, far from ideology, we respond effectively to the serious problems that afflict our country by giving targeted and studied solutions. That is why I invite you all to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u162	The Minister for Culture and Sport has the floor, Mr Styliani Mendoni, in order to develop it by a general number of 148 and a special 12 amendment tabled. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u163	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, with the amendment tabled by you on behalf of the Ministry of Culture and Sport in the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: 'A birth allowance and other provisions', a reasonable rationalisation of sanctions in cases of breaches of sport law, in particular the provisions on property in accordance with the constitutional principle of proportionality, is, in fact, attempted. The regulation proposed by the government certainly fully respects the self-interest and self-interest of the sports federations which will implement the new regulation with their competent bodies. What is changing is the possibility of measuring the penalty within the framework defined by the legislator. Ladies and gentlemen, when the Greek society is under threat, a society that is injured by the recent past, a society that is trying to recover, the government's legislative initiative is a responsibility. Module is a necessary term of progress not only in sport, but also in general. The government must ensure that society is consistent, that it does not allow a new social division on the basis of this particular issue of football, a matter of sport. That is our primary concern. That is what we are seeking with the proposed amendment. You realise that at this stage the country has to deal with a number of critical issues that leave no room for any kind of tension or for a new division between its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u164	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u165	Wait a minute. I've seen you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, on behalf of the Ministry of Labour, which is the Ministry responsible for today's draft law, it accepts the amendment of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u167	They may request the floor on the amendment only or the parliamentary representative of each parliamentary group or the rapporteur. Take care of who wants to talk about the subject of the amendment, if you like. But I saw Mrs Fotou who asked for the floor. Anyone else want to?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u168	Let's read it then.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u169	Okay, we're moving on to the process, and if anyone asks the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u170	I would like to ask Mrs Mendoni a question. I'll be in later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u171	Yes, you can ask questions. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u172	Madam Secretary, you said two things. Firstly, you are carrying out a reasonable rationalisation of sanctions. What do you consider reasonable rationalisation and unreasonable rationalisation to date or irrational rationalisation of sanctions? And secondly, why is the division of Greek society threatened? With what figures today at 7 o'clock you say that you are bringing this, because Greek society is now under threat? Explain to me. What evidence do you have? Greek society is under threat. That's not funny. Do you have any evidence? How are they threatened? Explain to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u173	Mr. Hetas, Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u174	Minister, how exactly is society threatened? I want you to answer us. But I want you to answer this: who is responsible, who is responsible for the division of Greek society? Because in this life they don't come from heaven. Acts also have consequences. So someone who has a name and surname and whom we have named since the morning, and the Prime Minister has not dared to touch him, which if he did since the morning would have calmed down, he is responsible for all this. What are you doing with this, Minister? Let me get this straight. Or a group has misunderstood, and so it must be punished. We're saying now, if he's outlawed, because we don't know that yet, it's a suggestion, it's not a decision. So you're illegal now by changing the laws. Or if this team has not made a mistake, it has not been illegal, it must not be punished and you are being punished by subtracting points and giving the championship somewhere else. What exactly is going on here? I'm not addressing you, because it's sporting. There is a minister in charge who, I think, is rather sad to say this and I said it earlier, months ago, and I will repeat it now - is inappropriate. And unfortunately, we have brought the country to a point where while we have huge problems with our islands, with illegal immigrants, with the Turks, with the provocativeness and reproach of the Turks, we have now been dealing with this since last night. And I say now that the Deputy Minister of Sports, while invoking the self-employed in football and not interfering with the decisions, while the recommendation was not made, the decision was taken last night to intervene and to move the finger to the committee, I am not looking very well or badly. So the self-employed intervenes and says "How can the last sentence of the sentence be applied without imprudent evidence?". So he knows something that we don't know or he doesn't know and he's unbearable and he's dangerous and he's creating all this mess. In both cases his role is controlled, Minister. Because if he doesn't know and makes that mess, he's dangerous. If he knows, the question is: How does the Minister know what the decision is when there is no decision? And that's how Greece is divided in two. Here's a little something. You're arsonists. You're setting fire to a country from your indifference because you can't run football. We and, of course, I represent President Velopoulos, do not participate in this absurdity with what you are bringing here. I'm going back to understand the world. If someone's outlawed this here, you're illegal because you're changing the streets, so he's smoking you. If it has not been unlawful, you are wrongful one team and you are giving the championship to another, because it will be subtracted. I'm sorry, but we call on the logic rather than the logic of New Democracy's arson and indifference. I'm so sorry, but that's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u175	The floor has been asked for by the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u176	So that people do not ask themselves, because we have just been shared by the amendment, if anyone goes to the report of his General Accountancy, he will understand exactly what the government wants to do with this amendment, amend the penalties, i.e. remove the disciplinary code, etc. sentences for the expulsion of a group. That's what's going on. And from there on, the predictions, which are subtracting grades and go by saying. This is an amendment which is a reproach and I should like to say something about it. Well, it's a mock and a hindrance. This amendment is unacceptable and, of course, confirms what the Communist Party of Greece emphasised and emphasises, namely, that the businessman's football is being played in the background, in the Ministry's halls and appointed Commissioners, anywhere other than the field. And the fan world that has lost this rot has nothing to do with the legs of the big businessmen who determine the fates of the teams, nor must it be blamed for their pursuits, which are naturally not confined to sport alone or, in this case, to football. We reiterate the position that has been formulated and tabled, and all the governments are denying it, the proposal of the Communist Party of Greece, the football anonymity companies to join the Ministry of Development, in order that there is even an elementary transparency, that business and political games should be limited to football and, in total, sport should be exempted from the trade dorm. We denounce this method, this process and state that we will abstain from voting on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u177	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u178	First of all, I would like to point out that the work of the legislator is to legislate and not to illegally. By definition, the legislator legislates. That's not something we're discovering now. Thousands of years to go back, he'll find out. I insist. It's not illegal. As for the division that has been mentioned, you do, even if not within football things, what is currently moving on the Internet, it has a fully documented view of the upset that has occurred because of this particular problem in society. So what we are trying to do is this inconvenience of society to stop happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u179	The Minister didn't answer. What's the split?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u180	But, Mr. President, does the Internet legislate? The Minister is legislating.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u181	Look, Mrs. Fotou, you've been Minister. That was the Minister's answer. Doesn't he please you? There is no question of continuing. We're on the list from now on...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u182	The Minister's not answering and leaving.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u183	The Minister escapes. He's not answering. Doesn't the government have a political stature to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u184	The Minister replied during her judgment. Listen to me, both of you have been ministers. Please come to Stepma, Mr. Psychogios for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u185	In the next question, if the scoreboard is modified, do you answer or not? Tell us that! Is the government interfering with the rating board?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u186	And Panonius wants...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. I cannot start with it, because it falls right into the debate. This is an unacceptable amendment which arbitrarily invokes the need for legislation. It is no excuse that legislative power can do everything. And we will not leave that in the course of the meeting. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am starting with the title of the bill: 'A birth allowance and other provisions'. After the Embassy agreement, after the refugee, after the middle-class, you are now coming to the benefits you have received from the election campaign and you have deceived it - you have allergies to them - to legislate. Of course, your inequalities are natural nomadicity, but you are actually coming to take social benefits measures. We therefore say that despite the fact that the birth allowance we will be voting on is being invested, the substance is in the other provisions and is simply an investment, because you have started slowly and firmly to extinguish the social state that SYRIZA has created in a much more difficult situation and the figures are characteristic. Amid a crisis we increased the welfare budget from 790 million in 2015 to 0.4% of the budget, to 3.5 billion in 2019, when the European average is 4%. The Prosecutor state became digital and transparent, a shield of dignity and equality against customer relations and logic. The bill relates to millions of fellow citizens, to whom important allowances are cut, to the child's, to housing, to the social income of solidarity, under the pretext of a birth allowance, which is baptized as a strategic policy to tackle demographics on its own. Serious political response to demographic is structured in four axes which create social security as well. Firstly, in the recovery of the economy that took place on SYRIZA with continuous quarterly growth, without saying that all the problems have been solved. Secondly, the reduction of unemployment and good jobs for all. We had 10% reduction in unemployment, collective agreements. The permanent employment has exceeded the part and the programmes of the OAED, which you are abolishing. Indeed, because I have heard a colleague speak about young scientists, you have not met, Mr Minister, nor the young scientists twenty-two or twenty-nine years old, who are now being sent to the hostel. Thirdly, the increase in pay for workers through the minimum wage progressively would reach 750 euros in 2021, the abolition of the degrading underpaid wage, but also the APRD, which carried out checks and fines and the protection of workers. Fourthly, with the development of welfare through the support of young families with a hundred and fifty - six thousand children at the nursery stations when seventy - nine thousand went in 2015, with two-year compulsory pre-school education and school meals, which you are undermining in my prefecture of Corinthia. Social provision policies also have a development dimension and, of course, have a multiplier return to the economy with an increase in demand, new jobs. This has proved out of the 600 million that you cut into the social dividend. The cigarette fell on the market, and this is confirmed by the relevant bodies. But you are also serious obstacles that seem to be perpetuated by ideology and social analgesia. You say that if a child stays absent for at least one year, he loses his child's allowance, housing and CAA all his family. It is an innovative programme that puts and updates data at any time with six databases every six months and what it does is that it also reduces the beneficiaries when work is increased. Because, for us, the aim is to increase work through active policies and that has to do with the OAED programmes and new recruitments. Articles 7 and 15 to 18 reduce child, child and housing allowances according to the origin of children. The requirement of 12 years of residence in the country excludes a large number of families living legally and permanently in the country, working and taxed here and in great need of birth benefits. This is, of course, contrary to Union law, to the International Convention on the Rights of the Child of the United Nations, of course, forbids uninterrupted access to social benefits of all those legally living in the country. It is a provision that follows the line of the far right wing of the New Democracy, as well as your political leadership, the Greek Solution. This wing is understood as a whole by refugees and immigrants as invaders, even children themselves. But, ladies and gentlemen, one of the many fronts, which you have served in cheap populism beforehand, was that only foreigners receive allowances. Great lie, but also a completely dangerous and racist rhetoric and logic that you come to legislate on. Foreigners who were beneficiaries of the allowances should already have legal and permanent residence in the country and corresponded to a small section, according to official data. It is good to leave hypocrisy behind, not to be interested in foreigners, when they are mainly working in the province, while when they are getting a birth allowance, we exclude them. This is the definition of hypocrisy and racist treatment on your part, especially when in Europe many countries have even more flexible conditions, because they know the contribution of these people to work and to insurance funds and state revenues, but also to demographics. I would also like to refer to the amendment with a general number of 146 and a special 10 for the CIDs and CIDs - AIAs, which we support should be integrated into the municipalities, the organic social protection units and permanent staffing should be created. That's what they call bodies and parents' organisations and federations. We have heard from the New Democracy that we have not made this intervention in the last four years. Look, ladies and gentlemen, in this storm and the problems we have to face in the country's bankruptcy, we restored the unfinished in 1998, the indeterminate of the 2008 ADP, the school guards, the 'Help at Home', the five-year obligation firefighters and many other social groups. You've done absolutely nothing. So you now have an obligation in the best conditions that we have given you to restore injustice. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that for us the social state is a state obligation for everyone, without discrimination and asterisks, and it is no luxury at all. It is a prerequisite for growth and not a result depending on indicators. And that will be achieved in both Parliament and the movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u188	Mr Kegeroglu has asked for the amendment. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. We have heard a justification on the part of the Minister, who has not even invoked a national danger. We are, of course, asking ourselves: To greater sized problems what can a minister who is in a dead end be invoked? Mr President, in the favoured states, in the democracies, and in this case in Greece, every competition, every organisation and, in particular, the championships must be governed by clear rules known at the beginning of the procedure, which will be fully transparent, so that there is no sign of suspicion of their distorting them, in order to circumvent them. Here we have a wretched manoeuvre on the part of the government, an intervention and a wrong way that the government is trying, after the deadlock that seems to be leading, to correct by a new mistake. We believe that all handling this case is a dead end. In a different way, problems are dealt with. The government has all responsibility for the initial interventions and the ending. It does not seem to be a solution to the amendment, for which too much time is needed to understand how it is coming. We believe that, yes, changes need to be made, improvements are needed in the whole process of championships and in this respect the professional championship, but these changes cannot be made on the grounds of the wrong and dead-end manipulations of the government. For this reason, we will not participate in the procedure concerning this amendment, either its vote, its vote, or anything else. It is a matter for the government to bear its full responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u190	New Democracy MP Christos Kelles has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government is making all its commitments dynamically, without losing any day. The bill that we are discussing and will be voting on today contains provisions which have a strong social mark for our country, which is up and running for our children and their future. Following the increase of the tax rate of 1 000 euros for every child, the abolition of the luxury tax on cars above 1929 cubic cubic cubics of laundry and the reduction of VAT rates for infants from 24% to 13%, we legislate the birth allowance of 2 000 euros for each Greek girl who comes to the world, as well as for every child born in the country and his parent has a certified fixed bond with Greece, which means that he must reside permanently within the Greek territory at least 12 years prior to the birth of the child. This provision, together with the other measures, is a profoundly political act reflecting our understanding of society and the future of the country and nation. As a party we are on the side of the Greek family and we support its continued development. We sincerely support multitude families and finally pursue demographic policy after five years of total non-existence, taking studied and decisive steps to prevent negative demographic trends. It is certain that, over time, this policy will bear fruit and while our budgets are improved, the more beneficial measures are taken for the family. In the same direction, the arrangements for the operation and creation of more day-care and day-care stations across the territory are included through the funding program of the municipalities by the Hellenic Society of Local Development and Government. And that is a promise that is being made. We have promised that there will be no children outside nurseries, as well as that their mothers will be helped substantially in their ability to return to work and work. At the same time, this draft law updates the legislation on the grant of child and housing allowances. In particular, for reasons of budgetary equilibrium, we are increasing the period of permanent residence in the country, which is a precondition for granting them, from five to twelve years, to citizens from third countries. At the same time, we interconnect both these benefits with education and make it as a prerequisite for beneficiaries, provided that they have minor children, that their school education is compulsory and that they do not lose the year from unjustified absences which are not due, however, to health or learning difficulties. Accordingly, where the beneficiaries have minor children, the minimum guaranteed income is also linked to education. Of course, we must not forget that the minimum guaranteed income is a deep section in the history of the Greek social rule of law which has introduced and guaranteed us in the country's charter during the recent constitutional review. So, combined with social policy, we are strengthening education which is the foundation for society. The school is the main socialisation body of the child after the family. No kid off the streets, no kid out of school. This is the main prerequisite for sustainable development, not only in Greece but throughout the modern world. I come to an issue which concerns the trunk of our country: mountainous and disadvantaged areas. Those of us from the periphery, such as myself from Larisi Prefecture, who a large part extends to the mountains of Olympus and Kissavos, know that our compatriots living in the mountainous villages under adverse conditions in most months of the year are pillars of the Greek countryside, the soul of our country. We must provide them with all we can to keep giving the region life. To this end, the regulation, Minister, on the duty-free and incomprehensible benefit of the households of mountainous and disadvantaged regions with low incomes is an important intervention. It had to happen from time to time and good for you, even now. Furthermore, the bill includes administrative arrangements that will improve citizens' lives, not now, but on a permanent basis. The first is payment of the benefits from the OPECA, which will take place on the last working day of the month. No more press releases from the Minister concerned as to when the benefits will be granted. Finally, the political exploitation of their allocation in election times. The beneficiaries will no longer be able to make financial planning on a stable basis and will not be troubled. A corresponding relief is estimated to bring about the spread of e-government to citizens' transactions with the ECA. This is a regulation which will dismantle both the citizens and the staff of the body, since the procedures will be simplified and implemented electronically. Finally, in the same sense, we are planning tomorrow's citizens' lives. The provisions on the creation of a citizens' birth sub-system and will simplify birth declaration procedures, together with the provision for the automated issuing process of AMKA and AMD in the birth vacancy act, will relieve citizens of burdens and bureaucratic obstacles to the future and will make the transaction process with the State more effective. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government brings us to the vote a symbol of regulations aimed at dealing with subgenitality and supporting the social state together with improving the functionality and effectiveness of public administration. That is why we are voting for this draft law by taking another step at the threshold of a new era, a era of recovery and development for all and for all, a time when the new generation will be optimistic and build its future with confidence in the New Democracy era. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u192	I should like to invite the New Democracy MP, Mr. Baraliakos Xenophonta, to Stepma. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Kgeroglou, has then asked for the floor on the basis of a party speech that the Bureau considers necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs entitled birth allowance and other provisions emphatically demonstrates how the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis prioritises political priorities. The introduction, therefore, by means of this draft law of the 2,000 euro allowance for every child born in Greece as from 1 January 2020, as long as the conditions laid down by law are met, puts two important issues at the core of government policy. On the one hand, the resolution of the demographic issue, on the other hand, reinforcement of the nuclear family. And let's be clear. Conservation and strengthening of the institution of the family, as the first cell of the nation and society, is the only realistic, practicable and reliable choice for the population declining and ageing Greece. Some supposedly progressives deliberately choose to downgrade the demographic issue by adopting concepts which are part of their wider ethnic agenda for the future of Greek society? The absence of a plan in their governance speaks for itself. However, ladies and gentlemen, demographics is a slow-track time bomb on the foundations of our country. It is without doubt an issue of vital importance for the continuity of Hellenism as an autonomous and distinct national entity and cultural identity. If this thorny equation is added to the problem of illegal immigration, everyone realizes that very soon the coherent joints of the Greek society will be subjected to great compaction and will be tested very strongly. Engaging hypogenicity can only be seen as a national threat. Starting in 2011 where a negative birth balance had occurred, something that had to happen since the German occupation, the forecasts of the surveys cannot be simply alarming. It's more than arrogant. Just think that in 2050 Greece will number eight million inhabitants of whom 36% will be over 65, while no one can determine what path the migratory crisis will take and how quickly and efficiently we will achieve the multi-positional brand gain. The ageing population and the subsequent absence of new ageing potential, drugacts the economic development of the country, eliminates the insurance system and leads to the collapse of pensions. The Government of New Democracy in all of this responds positively and decisively and acts in intervention as long as the situation is still reversible. With a measure which forms part of the broader government's planning of maternity and fertility support policies, we actively support new couples, encourage births and shield the institution of the nuclear family, the backbone of our society. This allowance is not a communication firework. We don't score allowances to the right and the left to get electoral clientele. We want the citizens of this country to be independent and capable of producing their own wealth for themselves, not to fall and behave by a paternalist state. For us, it is a clear ideological choice with a specific political aim. It's not a submerged metro. It continues with an integrated policy framework that creates a favourable welfare environment for young Greeks and Greeks who are in childbearing age. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the government measures for day-to-day nurseries, the reduction of VAT on infants from 24% to 13%, the abolition of luxurious living tax on private vehicles of more than two thousand cubic metres, the increase in indirect tax exemption, and even with a provision of EUR 1 000 per minor child, the recent regulations in the education bill. There's more coming. Ladies and gentlemen, we are inhabited in a sensitive and very fragile corner of the earth, which cannot withstand experimentation and alchemy with the demographic composition of the national population. A fragile national trunk that will be inspired by vital energy with a glance in the future is the basic prerequisite for jumping faster than wear. So far we have won many important bets, because we are prepared with visionary formation and a realistic plan. I am convinced of the vision of government policy in demographics and I join with all my forces in resolving this top political issue that directly affects the present and the future of our country. As Thucydides wrote, the great father of history, the city's walls are its people. We must therefore preserve these precious walls unreservedly and lovablely over time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u194	The speaker of the New Democracy, Alexopoulou Christina, has the floor for seven minutes. Then Mr. Andrianos will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u195	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, my presence today at the Step of the House is very pleased, as we are discussing the introduction of a measure which will be of direct benefit to the core core of society, which is what is other than the family. The main aim of the measure is to harmonise the burden of giving birth to a child in the family budget, which as a mother I am well aware of. For this reason, the planned provision is expected to work beneficially for our country on multiple levels, as experience of the past has shown, aiming primarily at its demographic recovery. That is why I thought this measure was to be broadly accepted and not to be an excuse for pointless controversy. I was a little surprised by Mr Chakalotos when in one way, I did not understand what he tried to tell us. Come here to give birth, get the allowance and leave? What can I say? We are therefore invited to vote today on the introduction of a 2 000 euro allowance for every child born in Greece. The reasoning that led to this decision is the direct result of the downward trend of the birth index in our country. In fact, ELSTAT's measurements show the downward trend of births in Greece since 1981, while corresponding surveys have shown a drastic decline in families with more than two children in recent years, while at the same time increasing childbirth. This social phenomenon was particularly worrying in the decades of the crisis, as families with children were severely affected by the harsh fiscal policy. This situation has made Greek society aged and vulnerable. The workforce decreased, resulting in further contraction of any production power left. The gap between insured and retired persons in active employment has increased until about one employee maintains three pensioners, resulting in a reduction in contributions and a large number of funds become deficits. In the first place, however, subgenitality puts the country's own security at risk, when neighbouring Turkey, for example, presents ever-increasing trends in births with clear implications for its ever-increasing aggressive policy. The introduction of the birth allowance is a clear sign of social maturity and, of course, of justice. The aim of this is to strengthen the Greek family and to lay the foundations for the implementation of a modern demographic policy, as the New Democracy party sees it, in accordance with the constitutional order, which, on the one hand, serves the national interest and, on the other hand, highlights the undeniable European course of our country. We are fully aware, ladies and gentlemen, of the fact that the birth allowance is not going to be a panoramic of the birth rate in Greece. It will certainly be an incentive to recover, and it is worth mentioning here that when Kostas Karamanlis' government introduced in 2006 an equivalent third child's birth allowance and upwards, the next year births have increased by some four thousand, according to ELSTAT's figures. From a legal point of view now, particular attention has been paid to the conditions of granting. These are becoming strict and continuous in order to limit cases of abuse or unlawful exercise of the right, which is the result of the grant of benefits. The tax declaration criterion and the issue of a clearing agent are chosen as the safest and fairest condition for granting it, ensuring what else is the citizen's remuneration with the State. An income criterion is introduced, but calibrated in an objective way, depending on the economic status of each family, attributed to an equivalent family income. At the same time, for foreigners, the criterion of 12 years of permanent and legal residence in Greece is being set, of course, by guaranteeing social justice. In particular, it is essential to provide that the birth allowance becomes inappropriate and tax-free, even if there are outstanding debts of the beneficiary or regulated debts, completely separating social care from other administrative or sanctions. In this way, therefore, a safety net is being created for all those who really offer it in that country, making it a tangible financial aid to patients even today's family budgets. It is worth noting that the income criterion anticipated relates to the majority of families in Greece, the low and medium-sized groups, who have suffered the greatest pressure, of course, during the economic crisis. That is why the birth allowance is another measure to restore the unjust treatment that has been suffered mainly by SYRIZA's social policy. In any case, I must repeat that we are not ethers to believe that this provision will bring about a rapid increase in births. It is, however, a very important financial aid for the family, which we want and which we can support. In our criticism of another allowance we have also answered in the past about the opposition of the New Democracy to the support of a donation policy. However, until budgetary discipline allows for more and more permanent family support measures, we cannot completely abolish such measures. Ladies and gentlemen, the same draft law includes provision for extending child benefit to more social groups, promoting social justice and strengthening the social fabric. In this case too, however, we are looking further for a fair distribution of the allowance, introducing an additional allowance fee. In addition to the tax declaration, the child will now be required to receive a regular and uninterrupted student at a public school with continuous control of it. Its aim is to avoid phenomena such as the entry in children's schools which are not attending the courses, as well as other similar ones observed in the case of specific social groups and which have never been adequately addressed, for obvious reasons. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. A similar provision is included in the bill for the accommodation allowance. To conclude my position, let me refer to a very important provision of the bill that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis applies, ignoring the Cassandras talking about the opposite, and in fact proving its social sensitivity. It is about maintaining the positions of a multitude of teachers from the OAED, whose branches and specialities do not fall within one of the integrated groups of teachers. These teachers, according to the draft law, will remain in office and duties until retirement. This issue, which was raised by a very large proportion of citizens and bodies in the previous legislative consultation, coincides with the permanent and time-consuming position of the New Democracy Party on the universal right of access to work. To conclude, let me once again express my satisfaction at the measures that this bill is called upon to implement, as the impact on society is expected to be extremely positive. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to vote on the relevant provisions that improve the state's provision and bring us closer to what we are used to call a modern European country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u196	I should like to invite the Member of the New Democracy Parliament, Mr Giannis Andrianos, and then to call for his second-guess, as I said, Mr Kegeroglou, the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement. Here, Mr. Andriane, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u197	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, demographics are by far the most acute problem facing the country today. For decades the population of Greece has grown older, with births not reaching the replacement rate. This extremely worrying trend has deteriorated even worse than the difficult adventure of the budgetary crisis over the years. According to the 2016 figures, Greece has one of the lowest fertility indicators in the world, only 1.88, with births falling below the hundred thousand children a year. At the same time, Greek women are now on average having their first child after thirty. And, of course, this trend has deteriorated even worse by the wave of young people leaving abroad in search of a better destiny. Faced with this reality, the decisive and effective treatment of demographics is becoming literally a matter of survival, of course, beyond a condition for ensuring our national defence and integrity or for a sustainable solution to the insurance sector. So the bill we are debating today is a step in this direction. At the same time, it is the implementation of a basic election commitment from the New Democracy and of Mr Mitsotakis personally. The birth allowance marks in the most emphatic way the importance we attach to tackling the demographic problem. It points to the New Democracy's desire to put this problem at the top of public policy priorities. The single allowance of EUR 2,000 for each child born is a significant aid in the early stages of childcare, which is of course supplemented by the provision of the bill to facilitate access to funding for the municipalities of the country in order to operate more kindergartens in order to make our commitment to find a place for all children in nurseries. It is important to stress that this initiative is not detached and fragmented, but is part of a wider strategy to strengthen the Greek family and support young people. Demographic is a national case, and it's all about us. It is a national issue, and so we have to deal with it, because it affects and threatens the future of our country. We hear the agony and dreams of the new Greeks and Greeks who want to create their own family, but they hesitate because of objective problems and difficulties. We are well aware that, in order to encourage young people to take this step, the conditions are many and complex: New and well-paid jobs so that early Greeks and Greeks acquire financial independence. Supporting new families with nursery and other supportive structures. Work arrangements to ensure a better balance of family and working life. Upgrade the quality of life in the cities and villages of our country. A network of strong social protection for those who have temporary difficulties. Restoration of normality, which will allow young people to safely design the future. Substantial reinforcement of support for the multiple family. The aim of our strategy is, once again, to ensure the country and economy on its feet, to ensure the institutional and budgetary conditions, so that the support of the Greek family is increasingly made more and more substantial. This wider structured strategy therefore includes birth and child benefits with their insurance margins guaranteeing that they will only be attributed to the actual beneficiaries. The New Democracy wants to restore optimism and perspective to Greek women and Greeks. Faced with the policies of levelling down and entanglement in the poverty of the recent past, we are once again giving young people, the new Greek families the power to plan their future confidently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u198	Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, the government, as I said before, caused the whole problem and the deadlock. It shows that as long as the gold dust sits the communication, as long as the words about modernism are dispersed, it seems clear that it is moving towards the arrangements rather than the reforms. It seems clear that everything that he had told us beforehand about modernisation and for another policy is far from old norms that have to do with the settlement of economic interests. Society is experiencing accumulated problems and the government, instead of giving solutions, gives time and time. It refers to the future. Our surpluses have been mentioned in the years to come, that is, when the Greek people have already experienced the negative effects of overtaxation and of the surpluses themselves. I'm not talking about the superstition. For the de-escalation of high taxation, for the de-escalation in particular of the taxation of Greek households with high indirect taxes, VAT, excise duties refer again to the future. The proposals of the Change Movement for new jobs can be expected, as can address the bank's abusive practices with the charges and the plan for mass auctions. They can also be implemented and solutions can wait. We have tabled an amendment to restore the process of setting the basic salary through collective bargaining by the social partners. And she can wait according to the government. We have tabled a proposal for a law on the 13th normal pension to be paid by the insurer. And she can wait in the future. As well as the rehabilitation of micro-retired people who, due to the loss of the CSCE, experience very difficult. Maybe they'll wait too. We have tabled an amendment to include tritecs in polytectures, in order to provide a message to address demographics and support for multitude families, as well as the proposal to grant a child's allowance from the first child for the first three years, after birth, to be EUR 200. And this proposal can wait. And while there are proposals to give solutions to the accumulated problems of society, to open up a new path towards the social rehabilitation of the injustices and addressing problems experienced by households, the government gives'solutions' and invoking national solutions, fast track solutions. He came, said, saw, and the Minister came. He is not here to hear our proposals, our opinions, our positions. It is a practice of avoiding public debate on how to deal with serious issues relating to the place. We have already talked about our position that the rules and everything that defines a competitive process, a competition organisation, a championship are clear from the outset and are valid throughout the year as long as this works. We are having dialogue, discussing and changing the rules for the better, but for the new period and on equal terms for all. We're not interfering retrospectively. We are not interfering in such a way that the rules are shattered. Of course, we are not tempted to distort these rules. That's even worse. All this is, of course, about economic powers, with economic interests, but also about the management of the Greek fan. This is very important. And unfortunately, the government is playing with everything. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] In 2017, Mr. Mitsotakis, on the occasion of a rhysphetological intervention by SYRIZA in favour of certain financial interests - because SYRIZA's stoved footstep follows Mr. Mitsotakis - had written a tweet, saying: "The New Democracy is not threatened and is not blackmailed." Today, the question arises, which, of course, should answer it itself, whether it is threatened or blackmailed. What comes as a conclusion, however, is that even in a society and an economy of conflicts of interest, instead of choosing the path of rule, the way it has to do with the public interest and the emergence - if you like - of the best result for the country and in any case, for any social, economic or other procedure, it chooses intervention, the settlement, but it does not give definitive solutions. The deadlocks are ahead. And the government, as we have said, should be fully charged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u200	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Ms Rapti, has been asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, it has been heard here that the government may be threatened and blackmailed. Well, the government is not threatened or blackmailed and does not bring the amendment to cover any blackmail or threat. He and the one threatened is the Greek society. And they admitted it here and Parliamentary Representatives from many opposition parties, precisely because if you enter the internet too, if you see what is said among fans, we all understand that the unity of Greek society is above all. So that is what the Minister for Culture has done, and what he has told us is that what is not the case is changing the possibility of measuring the penalty. What is happening is that we must ensure that there is no division of Greek society. Obviously, the government also respects the self-interest of all sports federations. Also, Mr Kegeroglu, you know that unity is the necessary element of progress. What we are saying - and that is what I am going to close - is that what is changing is the possibility of measuring the penalty. And that is what the legislator defines. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u202	Mrs Irene - Eleni Agathopoulos, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes. Mr. Miltiadis Hatzigiannakis will then speak from SYRIZA. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, you will allow me to return to the subject of the bill with a correction to the previous speaker, Mr Andriano, who referred to a problem of fertility. Young people, ladies and gentlemen, have no fertility problem right now. Let's know what we're talking about. The problem they have is that they do not have the necessary security that the state must provide to them to pass on to childbirth. I will take the opportunity of today's debate to discuss more generally the voluntary policies and not specifically the birth allowance you bring. I am referring to subsidised policies that you have so slandered and slandered in electoral terms. And what you didn't say. Let's remember them a little. "Poverty trap", "pay the lazy" and many others that have nothing to do with reality. You were saying all of this simply to hit the policy that it has implemented up to now, but a policy which is due to the fact that we are now out of memoranda and unemployment of 10 units below what you have handed us. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, I would like to ask for a little help for this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u204	A little quiet, please! We never turn the back on the speaker and the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u205	So you slandered a policy, but it was the one that brought us out of the memoranda and threw unemployment at least ten units. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Of course, they had a basis of truth, which you were talking about, but they were not about SYRIZA's allowance policy, but about your own government's voluntary policy, which these governments have forty years led us to the crisis. For for so many years your own governance, New Democracy and PASOK have been a huge chaos so that we cannot control it at the same time. There were two hundred allowances that gave them a hundred and twenty different ones. And whoever came out of the Minister also made a gift from an allowance to a particular social group, in a particular area, depending on what suited him. Often, it was also his constituency. Do you remember them or don't you remember where you're before colleagues in here? So the SYRIZA grant policy, as you called it - but we call it social and prosperous policy - was neither a trap of poverty nor a reward for lazy people. What we have tried to do - and to a very large extent we have done - was first of all to put all this chaos of the two hundred allowances and the hundred and twenty different sources in order, to house them and to know each now through the community centres and the OPEKA, what it is worth and how, without any MEP, no mayor, etc. Secondly, we have designed a web of political interconnectors to each other, both for the family as a whole and for children and adults separately, which apply to all advanced states in Europe, precisely because they are not politically intolerable, but also civil support policies, which each social state must provide. Do you want to list them? Let's talk about it once more in the papers. First and foremost, the social income of solidarity in the fight against extreme poverty, but in combination - something you are avoiding from saying - with policies of integration into work, with free distribution of food through TEVA, with free integration of all children at nurseries and, of course, with free health care for all and all. Just because it was not limited to a poverty maintenance allowance, the number of its beneficiaries has been reduced since 2017 by an eighty thousand beneficiaries, who, of course, have stopped taking it, because they have found jobs. Moreover, rent and social dividends, which, if you want to know, were very useful aids, especially for new couples. Increase in child allowance from 600 million to 1.1 billion and for two thousand more children. School meals, Minister, this innovative measure, which helps to combat the school leak that, as you rightly say, you want to fight. Our information, however, tells us that in recent months these school meals have not been given in many areas, if not in all. And it would be nice to get an answer because that is the case. And because for us there are no first- and second-class workers, we have tried to deal with respect for the fixed-term private workers, for whom we are tabling an amendment for them to be entitled to maternity leave, but also for the assistant teachers to whom the SYRIZA government has granted child rearing leave, as for all other workers. Obviously, there is a lot to be done on these accusations. So, if you really want to do work, you have a glorious field to act in this direction. There are, however, ladies and gentlemen, even more bold steps that you could take, if you really have the will to do them, reforms that are also included in the demographic score, which we jointly voted in 2018 and we as government started, but we did not have the chance to implement fully. I should first of all like to mention employment policies and tell you some ideas in this part: Expansion of collective agreements. That will mean security for young people and not abolition, which you are promoting. Increase the minimum wage. You promised her in an election, and now she's joining the bells. Parenthood leave. Alternatively and not elastic forms of work, which are applied in all Western states. In addition, childcare and elderly care infrastructures for all. We are bringing you an amendment to support public CSR and CSR - ASE, which you can and must integrate into state funding as an essential structure for child protection and family assistance. Also, brave changes in education policy and sexual education and the promotion of policies of healthy and active ageing, as well as measures for the social integration of migrants and refugees, which you do not dare to talk about. And, of course, positive actions to put back young people and return those who have already migrated.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, I had a break in time because of a fuss. So you'll give me some time. I'll be done. By the way, I had a call at noon from the head of IKA Audipolis, who asked me whether there was a provision for an extension of the OAED programme for the absorption of five and a half thousand unemployed young scientists to upgrade public services, which expires in February. I don't know if you have anything to answer to these people. Finally, Madam Secretary, because you have stated a intention to make use of the demographic and other internationally tested policies, I will propose something more, since you are here. You now have in your ministry - because they have been transferred from the Ministry of Interior - two highly experienced bodies on issues of equality and gender and reconciliation of family and working life, necessary, as we have said, to address the demographic issue. These two bodies, the General Secretariat of Family and Gender Equality and the Centre for Equality Research, have castrated them at the moment, without fundamental competences and without political planning to exploit them. At least for the TBR, which I happen to know and I should like to remind you that it is a legal person of private law, with the flexibility that this implies for the body, to use it as both a research body - a tool and an executive arm of your policies in this area. Take advantage of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u208	Ladies and gentlemen, a request from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group for a roll-call vote on the so-called amendment has been tabled. The vote will take place tomorrow at noon. Mr Tsakalots has the floor on the amendment for three minutes, like the other parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u209	Mr President, Madam Undersecretary, a ghost is mistaken, if not above Europe, at least above Greece. Where's Mr. Aygeakis? He's in the House? Is he in a bar drinking whiskey? Has he left the country? Can we have him here? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ms. Mendoni told us that there is a problem with the division of the Greek people. Who caused this? Is it or isn't it not true that Mr. Avgenakis put two people of his own in committee? Is it or isn't it true that after he put them in, he said he didn't like the finding? Is it or is it not true that, in order to correct these two mistakes, you are bringing an amendment that actually interferes directly with the self-sufficient football? It directly intervenes in the self-defence of football with retrospective power, and indeed, as the case is judged. Since we're talking about football, you need to know that the referee who corrects a mistake with another one, everyone swears it. It's not a way of organising. You have a great responsibility for this division. Because with your own practices and your own interventions this has been done. You could, if you did not like the committee, have implemented the law of Vassiliou and put a new committee to cover the Morphic Affairs Committee. You don't like the House, you don't like accountability, and that's why you got here. Our instincts are to follow KKE and KINAL and leave. Because we are not just against this amendment, we are against all the management that has reached us in the phenomena described by the Minister of Culture. But we want you to vote, one - one - one - by roll-call vote, and that is why we tabled it. We want all the MPs, after you make this mess, get the responsibility of what you did, one by one, one by one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u210	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the plenary sitting tomorrow, we will begin at 12 noon, so that at 13.00 the roll-call vote you have tabled will take place. We are talking about this so that the honourable Members know about it. We shall proceed with Mr Hatzigiannakis Miltiadis, a member of the SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. Obviously, today when we were on the list of speakers, we came to talk about childbirth allowance. It's the first allowance. Finally, New Democracy embraces the necessary benefits, comes on the path of logic. Obviously, all this time, all these years, with a great deal of courage and unfortunately with reasonable electoral manipulations, tried to hide from the Greek people what the SYRIZA government has done for four years, supporting the small and medium-sized family, practically, not in words, quadrupling and petty-planning all social benefits. But even now you can start - good - by the dawn of the new decade to start entering the right path. Apparently, that's why I wanted to talk. I wanted to talk about the CIPs which, as structures, have been operating for too many years. We have called for, because we are now out of the Memorandum and can reasonably look into the future a little better, become the social structures of the municipalities because they now serve the needs of the citizens and the citizens of each municipality. There it appears that support for subnatality, ladies and gentlemen, in such actions. Not that it is welcome that any allowance you give birth is given, but, you know, a new family where it sticks, where the problem is to move on to family creation is when the child is born how to grow, under the safety conditions, how to go to the children's stations, all the time until the difficult years of study, if children can work without the families having to bleed financially. Of course I also wanted to talk about the shameful amendment that you had brought to one night, and it must very quickly, yesterday, be changed for the pipeline, for the lawsuits, for a provision that had come in 2011 and then you said at the request of the lenders, but, today in 2019, you have brought it in secret with a reaction from the whole legal world of the country and to the detriment of the ordinary people who find it difficult even to claim their legitimate demands, forbidding the recourse to justice. You need to get him back soon. But, unfortunately, all this goes to the bead of unusable people, because you have once again brought the very good amendment or 'introduction' or whatever you want to say. We are witnessing from last night all the incredible things that are happening in Greek sport. The perpetrator of all this, all this, has a name, last name, should have been here today, should have had the courage to support himself the amendment he has put forward in vain - I say - to pave the way for the chaos he created in Greek football. However, Mr Aygeakis has the courage - except that he charged the Minister, Ms. Mendoni, the burden of bringing the amendment here and the poor woman tries to support it as she can support it - to be at the PSAT awards. That is where Mr Aygeakis is located and he is not here to defend the risk of splitting society - according to yours - in the Greek Parliament. He should have been at the awards. That is how you understand democracy, so you understand the institutional diversion in which you once again bring the Greek Parliament. I would not talk about it, however, at 17.30' as soon as the Committee on Research and Technology ended, which posted the following site: 'If possible, they will bring the amendment on the day of the vote and the bill of birth of children'. That was the title on a news site. If I, where I'm in here, I felt ashamed to imagine how every Greek citizen felt. We have become laughing again for Greek citizens. I will say two, three things under legal nature, constitutional nature and dignity. There is a case with a specific institutional framework in which one group has denounced two others. It is being avenged by the - supposedly - independent authority, which, quite rightly, our Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Tsakalotos - has been telling you two days before the case has changed illegally without her two members being passed by the committee responsible and the recommendation comes out, because it is not a final decision, and you are coming here and you are changing the law. I ask: If the day after tomorrow in a court ruling - and it is not sport - which is carried out, like the Golden Dawn - is not reproached for the Golden Dawn, to God! - where is it now, say you'll change the penalty frame, where will this stop? I say today that we shall vote on the amendment and say that Panonios will not fall, that the Fearless will not fall, that five, six groups will not fall. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] All of this is because you're trying to be with the policeman and the ranger and you're happy with your big boss - that's the reality - to give him the championship, because he's so backed you with his mass media and everything, but he doesn't have any complaints and you don't think you're doing this, and thanks to the vindicator of the title you don't blame him. That is the reality, you are trying with him, insulting the intelligence of the average Greek citizen, to be satisfied and with the business interests that you have been so supportive of and to which you have - it is obvious now - commitments. As you can see, none of the opposition will be a part of this crime. We call on you to be responsible for your actions and otherwise for the mess that you have created, to try to correct it in the right way and not in this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u212	Mr Boutsikakis Christoforos has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u213	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. The demographic problem is evolving into one of the greatest threats to the future of the Greek nation. Estimates of the future are nightmareous. If our country continues at the same rate, in 2050 we will be around eight million and out of them, almost three million will be over-aged. The main cause for this situation is, of course, inheritability. 2011 was the first time a negative birth balance was recorded, i.e. the Greeks who died were more than those who were born. The economic crisis has certainly significantly exacerbated the problems, but it is not the sole reason for reducing these births. Among the main reasons for the reduction of the population can be said to be the cut-off from Greek traditions that often honoured luxury, the increase in the average age of marriage and as a result of childbirth, as well as the reduction in the birth rate of more children, consumerism, the increase in the cost of living and expenditure of children, the occupational employment of both parents, the modern patterns of living that often take more time to focus on private and family life, the abuses of modern lifestyles that are overconsumption, smoking, obesity and many of these cases also reduce fertility. In the New Democracy, we are fully aware of the criticality of the situation and are fighting for a comprehensive response to the causes, where this is possible on the part of the state. Obviously, we cannot demand that our fellow citizens have more children. But we can give them the motives in this direction. That's exactly what we do. Enhancement of fertility is not achieved with wishes. A political strategy is needed, a package of measures aimed at supporting children and the family. It is precisely such a policy that the Government of New Democracy plans from day one and implements, with financial support and tax relief for the family, measures to support the many families and families with disabilities, ensuring access to nurseries. In this context, with the proposed draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Greek state's subsidisation policy is being modernised. A birth allowance of EUR 2,000 is established for children born in Greece as from 1 January of this year and income criteria are set for the benefit in such a way that it is allocated to almost all beneficiaries. Special care shall be taken to support single-parent families. It is even worth noting that this allowance is exempted from any tax, levy or levy for the benefit of the public or third parties. It's not subject to confiscation. It shall not be offset by established public debts, legal entities governed by public law, TAs, insurance funds, etc. This is the first time that such a measure has finally been introduced. We're proud of this. A benefit does not solve all the problems I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. It does, however, make a significant contribution to supporting the country's modern demographic policy, making it an important incentive for future parents. It is not only the financial valuation of the allowance that is worthwhile, but also the message we send to the Greek society. Now the state is here, it is present and it supports the Greek family, not in words, but in actions. As in practice and in words, a responsible government working in the interests of all Greeks must speak. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy's plan to deal with demographics is not limited to granting the allowance we are enacting today. It is complemented by access to nurseries, increasing the tax on each child, seeking better family and working life balance, reforms that bring investments and well paid jobs. At the same time, we are seeking to stop the outflow of the new Greeks abroad, as well as the return of those who left the difficult years of the crisis. This is our policy, a policy that supports the family, a policy for all Greeks and all Greeks, a policy with a view to better life. At the end of the four-year period Greece must be and will be a much better country than that we received. I invite you all to work together. We owe it to our children. We owe it to the next generations. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u214	To thank my fellow Member for his time, first of all. The President-in-Office has now asked for the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u215	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a very brief comment on school meals, because I think there is, unfortunately, a good mood in this regard. It is true that school meals still in some geographical areas on the ground have not begun. However, it is also true that the previous government was well aware of public procurement procedures. After all, she legislated them in 2016 with Law 4412. If you had, then, had you, ladies and gentlemen in Civicism, anticipated the notices of school meals and competitions that have taken place in time, then the whole process would not have been stuck in the stage of objections, as has now been done. So, if I were you, I wouldn't remind the citizens or the National Representation of the weakness of the former government's organization and manipulation. We, for our part, stress that you went with the administration of the OPEKA to run the administrative piece. For the legal part, however, he should have foreseen that the one who had run the competitive process and that was a previous government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u216	Can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u217	No, no! You are not a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u218	One intervention. We can't go on like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u219	Mr. Sarakiotis John from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the provisions of the bill, I could not comment on what has been happening since last night in the field of professional sport, particularly in the field of football, as it is a clear result of your political inability. You should, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, apologise and explain to our fellow citizens if what Olympiacos SA says in its communication, namely: "We regret the fact that the Deputy Minister of Sports Mr.Augias, on behalf of the Government, actually asked Greek judges not to implement the law. We hope that the government and the competent bodies will allow justice to do its job soberly without interference in its work." What interventions are being made to Greek justice by the government as the PAE announces Olympiacos, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? Do you need to answer? What do you have to say now about the complaints of PAOK PAOK, which are characterised by the Deputy Secretary of Sports and until the former Secretary of the New Democracy Mr.Avgenakis as dangerous and mandated by the Olympiacos press office? I wonder why you deleted your MEP, Mr Zorgoki, who asked for the law not to be implemented. You are bringing the amendment to ensure that the law does not apply and that what the Member of Parliament has requested is accepted and yet you have deleted it. Were you the ones who were electorally telling us that you would unite Greece and now have divided it in two, north and south, with your inability and your interventions? You have joined so much the country where PAOK fans come out and say in their official announcements that we are at war with Mitsotakis. On the other hand, the organized Olympiacos fans officially come out and say: "Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, if you dare intervene, you will be forced to leave Greece". Is that the normality you promised our fellow citizens? Why don't you answer and choose to hide again? Under no circumstances could I comment on what the former Minister of the New Democracy, who was sitting in these seats until a few months ago, and now he is a mayor in Katerini. Mr. Koukodimos said: "Lefteris Aygeakis is a wound to Greek sport. He is of interest." What are these interests that your former Member, your former Minister, publicly denounces? Did a prosecutor hear his statements? Will Mr Koukodemos be called before Greek justice to explain to us the interests of the Deputy Minister of Sports? And if the Greek justice now deals with the complaints of Mr. Kokodimos, he will tell us what happened and what happened to these suits and actions that Mr.Avgenakis has done before, when Mrs. Bakoyannis' party against the New Democracy for the loans, because we do not know what has happened. Madam Minister, a few months ago Mrs Fotou had tabled a question on Silver Alert, which we had signed up to several members of the SYRIZA. How does the time bring it, I don't know if the money has been paid, if this grant has been granted to Silver Alert, but it seems useful to your Government, because in Silver Alert Mr. Argeakis has been in the House since today and we have been looking for him for hours in the Greeks. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In the bill now, where there is no shortage in its own tactics of communication tricks, which tend to become the only tool that characterizes your policy as you come with a bill in fact the name of the CRL, because you cannot yet accept that SYRIZA legislated it. You obviously have a great deal of trouble with the CRL, because it has become a tool that has come to alleviate the consequences of the 12-year crisis that you, your party, have created. However, whatever you do the CRL will haunt, as there was a pioneering tool of the then leadership of the Ministry that put the concept of "social solidarity" at the heart of its policy, giving about 700 million to over six hundred thousand fellow citizens, citizens who until then only see the back of the so-called welfare state, as at that time the minimum guaranteed income you had established, received only thirty thousand of our fellow citizens. And you join us today, after so long in our rightful choices, choices that you've been sniffing and mocking for many years. Mr Mitsotakis was obviously arraigned about what he was saying in the election. He said that "young people don't ask me for benefits. We will provide opportunities for employment and not for disability benefits." And I really can't believe what I hear this morning, especially from Members of the Co-Population for the birth allowance, which we of course support. They are the same people who yelled months ago and said: "We must not give money and allowances to the poor so that they do not become lazy" and that they are a Marxist given, you said. Have you become Marxists, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, and since this morning I have heard you applaud this allowance? Equally unforgettable - no one can forget it - is the analysis of another top executive - today is also the Minister - who said that the only objective you are constantly falling out is the level of GDP, because you share Maduro-style allowances. I guess you're with Maduro now. And that's not just your hypocrisy. We have not had time to applaud this allowance initiative and you have immediately started the ballots and evils. This is because the figures are not coming out of you, which has been pointed out in the budget. You are using this financial support as a cover to lose thousands of beneficiaries of three basic allowances - which help the child and help deal with the demographic problem of our country - that is, the child's allowance, the housing allowance and the social solidarity income in order to save about 200 million. It is logical to cut-off without end, similar to that of reduced deficits in 2009. And when these were revealed, the country was led to the cliff. That's your policy. We oppose it and we will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u221	Thank Mr. Sarakiotis for his time. Mrs. Merope Jufi has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak exclusively about the bill - because we are currently monitoring a surrealistic situation - because on the second point raised by the invasive amendment my colleagues have put in place and there are no people who should be here to explain and apologise. So I start with the bill, and I will begin with a critical statement. Children are indeed one of the most vulnerable social groups, which is why there is all this sensitivity - which during the economic crisis was tested next door. All national and international studies converge with this conclusion. When we took over governance in 2015, society was in a deep social and humanitarian crisis, while child poverty was launched at 36% as a result of the policies implemented by the governments of New Democracy and PASOK, not only since 2000 but also before, when time-consumingly undermining its social state and infrastructure. After five years and hard work we managed to return the rate of child poverty to the pre-crisis levels, seriously hoping - that was the aim - in 'if the child escapes, there is hope'. Are we happy? Of course not. However, important steps have been taken. Many children have escaped the risk of poverty and exclusion and significant policies have been implemented to strengthen families. Today this vulnerable age group of children and the existing demographic problem are being used by the government as a front for conservative folding with selectivity and mammothry. So in order to restore the truth, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I would remind you that all over the previous period and also in the run-up to the elections, you have enthusiastically enthusiastized the welfare state, the welfare policy and the support measures of vulnerable social groups. We have told you that the benefits, benefits and good combined interventions at social and political level are the necessary intervention by the State to deal with the inequalities that exist and for an effort to promote social equality. We are therefore voting for the EUR 2000 premium per newborn as a positive and useful measure. You claim that in 2012-2014, despite the data provided, the modern social state with the minimum guaranteed income was set. Listen, the minimum guaranteed income was a Memorandumary obligation of the second Memorandum of 2012. It did not apply until November 1914, when it was renamed to guaranteed social income and granted only thirteen municipalities with a total budget of EUR 20 million. Until, that is, in 2015, you had not given a single euro for the hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens and for the children who experienced the greatest humanitarian crisis since World War II. I would also remind you that the institutions described the CSR as failed and useless, and that is why SYRIZA designed and implemented the CSR and gave 700 million to six hundred thousand fellow citizens, left to extreme poverty and their fate by 2015. Then - to remind you - it was that you blamed us for unilateral action against lenders in our attempt to tackle this very serious problem. We have created this primacy of the social state with the two hundred community centres and the Social Solidarity Benefits Agency, which grants all benefits, spread over the previous period, without transparency, without control, with an open customer state. You say that this project with the CRL does not actually involve services and integration into work, and it is a trap of poverty. You have been answered by other colleagues. I'll answer that. In addition to its originality allowance - which has been recognised as European - there is entry into work, which is evidenced by the fact that in 2017 there were six hundred and fifty thousand beneficiaries, and in June 2019 there were four hundred seventy thousand, i.e. a hundred eighty thousand people found work, while there was also provision of critical services with free food, incorporation into nursery stations, power discount, water and free medical care. You're still saying that in four and a half years, SYRIZA did nothing about the demographics. We have, however, the 2018 report of the Parliament's intergroup, which we have all signed up to, describing the main lines of intervention in demographics, which is the recovery of the economy, the reduction of unemployment, good jobs for all, the increase in pay for young people and the development of welfare. So what did we do? In 2015 we received an economy that had lost 25% of GDP. And in four and a half years we delivered growth to 1,9% with a trend of growth in a Europe in a downhill orbit. You promised growth in 4% and reduced it to 2.8% as soon as you were elected. We reduced unemployment from 27% to 17.5%. We have created three hundred thousand new jobs, with 70% full-time and over the past few months we have a negative balance. We restored collective bargaining with collective bargaining, resulting in an increase in wages in many branches. You abolished them, resulting in a reduction in wages. We increased the minimum wage and abolished the subordinate. 2020 does not increase as you promised to double the growth of 2.8%, since it is known that the increase in the minimum wage would attract and the benefits that depend on it such as maternity, unemployment, which are crucial benefits for the treatment of demographics. So you do not continue to increase. What did we do to deal with Brain Drain? We have given double the resources to research, four thousand five hundred researchers' posts, two thousand ICP members' posts after ten years, one to one, bridges of communication with abroad. What are you doing? You are still not renewing - and we have asked you to do so - the employment programme of five thousand young scientists who have chosen to stay in Greece. We also tried to improve the working regime in difficult circumstances, such as maternity and maternity leave to substitute teachers, foster mothers, parent mothers. We have created the free school meals, which you then swore to assemble - and now you do not guarantee them, we have not heard a concrete answer - which not only reduces school leakage, but at the same time improve school performance, create a culture of healthy nutrition, deal with the scourge of child obesity and subsequent diseases. And you say we have a school leak problem! On the basis of EUROSTAT, we are very well. Because in the years of the crisis, the public school has been a refuge and a fugitive. We meet the conditions laid down by Eurostat and the European Commission. The upgrading of vocational and technical education with the strategic planning of SYRIZA significantly changed the landscape and contributed significantly in this direction, since for class and social reasons, the greatest leak was recorded. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need another minute. And many more, such as the introduction of two-year pre-school education, the doubling of the child's allowance, the housing allowance, the treatment of red loans for young people and, of course, access to nursery stations that enabled fifty-six thousand children to be there in 2020. You choose to cut benefits and punish the children. It is untraining, punishing and contradicting, it is against the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child that our country has ratified. It's not justified. What pedagogical method can give the child responsibility? Why so much stigmatism in vulnerable social groups instead of understanding and inclusion? In fact, you also abolished the Roma Special Secretariat, which aimed precisely at integrating and dealing with their children and families with such problems, while taking out the possibility and the children of refugees and immigrants even though they have been in Greece for years. And you do it to close the eye consciously at your right audience.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u223	Mrs. Comrade, please. Come on in.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u224	Of course, I'm closing. Are these politically in line with European rights and values? The answer is no. Of course, we welcome you even at the last moment in this policy, but we believe that you are consciously trying to build a society with institutionalised inequalities and not just a single allowance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u225	I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to be in time. Mrs. Jufi arrived at nine minutes. Mr Ioannis Melas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u226	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I start talking about the draft law we are debating today, I would like to make a little reference to the amendment that came from the Ministry of Sport. Of course it is an amendment which, as the Minister has explained, is tabled for certain reasons. The only comment I would like to make is a small improvement which has to do with the following. In the event - and to convey this proposal to the Minister too - which will be seen to be multi-ownership, anyone who tries to commit such an infringement must know that at least one group will have to be subjected to it. That is why, in order to prevent this measure from being even more dissuasive, in paragraph 12 of Article 69 of Law 2725/1999 as it comes here, we could alter the penalty for the removal of grades from five to ten, as the amendment comes, to six to twenty. It is a proposal that I have explained why I am tabling it. It is a proposal that any multi-ownership will be prevented. I'm filing it. The Minister will be informed and we have the vote tomorrow at noon. It's to be improved, I'm saying again. Obviously, we support this move to come to an amendment. I'm coming to the bill now. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, a politician, says, thinks about the next elections, while a politician in the next generation. We, therefore, have been thinking about the next generations with the bill we are tabling today. We are promoting and planning a horizontal measure to tackle the demographic problem. For every child born there will be an allowance of 2,000 euros, an allowance that will be tax-free and inconsistent. The demographic problem is not a problem that we will face in the future. It is a problem that we are experiencing today and we must address, in order to avoid sad situations in the future. ELSTAT's figures, as many colleagues have mentioned from this step, are extremely worrying and need special attention. In 2018, births in Greece amounted to eighty-six thousand four hundred forty, while deaths in a hundred twenty-seven thousand ninety-seven. Let us look at the data from 2004 to 2008. Death across Greece was almost fifty thousand more than births. In the Municipality of Piraeus at the same time between 2014 and 2018, deaths were more than three thousand births. The situation is even worse in the small towns and villages that lead to abandonment and decline. I'm not going to go into any detail, because I don't want to tire you. But what I shall say is that our population is falling and falling rapidly. It is worth noting that there is a constant drop in birth rates in our country at levels below the European average. We should add to this data that more and more people decide to have a child older. This means that the number of children in most families does not exceed two. It is also very interesting that the survey of "DIANEOSIS" was carried out a year ago. According to this, then, by 2050 our country's population will be eight million eight hundred thousand. One third of the population will be over sixty-five of the one fifth that they are today. At the same time, according to the same survey, on average Greek women have their first child at the age of 30,3. The corresponding average in the European Union is twenty-nine years. Also, one out of four births in our country is made by women from thirty - five to thirty - nine years old. This data, therefore, means that the population of our country is constantly shrinking. Has any of us considered the real consequences of the decline in the population in the economy, in the organization of the state, in the defence? Retired people are increasing and the labour force is falling. The resolution of the demographic system will also ensure the sustainability of our insurance system in the long term. But apart from numbers and statistics, demographic is primarily a national issue. It is a difficult problem, which is not a political problem. It is a problem that is directly related to the security and the future of our country. That is why we need a concrete policy and a long-term plan to resolve it. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no illusions. The demographic situation is not solved immediately today or tomorrow. Our strategic choice and aim is to strengthen families, to provide incentives and not only financial incentives for having children and creating a family, the special care for multiple families. And anyone who can believe that the solution to the problem is in the refugee, is misguided. The solution to demographic is not in migration flows. It's over and out. That is what I personally call dangerous and nationally harmful. Ladies and gentlemen, in our worthy system the core of society is family and we are taking steps to create it by means of actions and not by words, by strengthening families for having children. With this bill, the foundations for a modern demographic policy come in. It is not just the universal grant of the birth allowance. We facilitate the financing of municipalities for the operation of more kindergartens. We connect the grant of child benefit, housing and minimum guaranteed income for adequate schooling for the child. These measures go hand in hand with measures that we have already taken in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen, by investing in resolving the demographic problem, we are not simply fulfilling a self-evident obligation towards our country and nation. We can achieve strong and stable growth, create hope and prospects for our country's future, give new breath and rejuvenate our country's region that pays the price of the demographic problem. A proposal from INTERNETOS, which I would like to mention, needs to be considered. We must consider making a demographic situation office within the House such as the Budget Office, for example. And in our policy, we must combine vision with realism, we must decide and legislate with a view to the future, in future, to future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u227	Mr Dimitrios Kouvellas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in March 2019, an extremely serious debate on the demographic issue took place in this Chamber in the national Parliament. I would remind you then that Alexis Tsipras and Chief of Officerial Response, Mr. Mitsotakis, was Prime Minister. I read from the Minutes of the debate: "To deal with ageing wants a comprehensive policy with an economic dimension to see results in a decade. Degrees are not a policy. That is why we propose 2,000 euros for every new child born at home to meet the needs of the first time, so that they do not become an impotent factor for each new couple." Who said that? Mr. Mitsotakis. I continue to read from the Minutes of the same debate: "You are not aware of what has already been done. I could say that 2,000 euros once is a tip. It is something serious that you are proposing, but we are not here for greetings." These were the words of Alexis Tsipras and it turns out today that only wishful words were not what the then Chief of Officer Response and current Prime Minister suggested. I continue to read from the same debate in March 2019: ‘The tax free will increase by EUR 1 000 for every child for weak support. Additional incentives in new pairs.’ Mr. Mitsotakis said it and he did it. ‘All baby species should go to the low VAT rate’. Mr. Mitsotakis said it and he did it. ‘No child outside childcare facilities with a government in New Democracy’. Mr Mitsotakis said so and did so, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. They were guaranteed, I remind you, another thirty thousand places in children's stations for the period running now, for 2019-2020. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is imperative in this Chamber that we begin to discuss political credibility. It is the question of Greek citizens, especially young people, who have as a point rightly turned their backs to the public, disappointed. The political system itself, unfortunately, gave them the right to say that 'all of you are themselves'. No, ladies and gentlemen, we are not all the same and policies, such as those of the Mitsotakis Government, since its first half of the year, have proved that to be a great deal. Other political morality, other political culture within and outside Parliament. And we do not say that, the citizens say so in all measurements from 7 July to today. I come to the current draft law, which proves that it has not remained in the papers, in the election plans, but is now in the process of being implemented. Very briefly, I mention that for the first time a birth allowance is introduced. It has been granted horizontally to any child born in the country since the beginning of the month, since New Year's Day, under two basic conditions: first, an income limit and second, legal and permanent residence in Greece. This bill serves to the full double target. It applies in the best terms a modern demographic policy and also reforms the special conditions of granting three basic benefits: the child, housing and the mountainous and disadvantaged areas of our country. A government responsible must take immediate measures to reverse the negative demographic trend that characterizes Greece. I'll remind you of a number that's shocking. The data must not escape any of us. It is ELSTAT, which confirms that in 2018 the births in Greece recorded a further decrease of about 2.5% compared to 2017. Thus, a continuous drop in birth rate is recorded at levels well below the European average. This, combined with that more and more young people do not really find motivation to make a family, results in the number of children in most Greek families being one, not more than two. The population of the country is therefore constantly shrinking. Such an allowance, like what the Mitsotakis Government is today, is already good international practice and is given to other European countries for years, such as Luxembourg, Belgium, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. In addition to the introduction for the first time of the birth allowance, the draft law updates the conditions for granting four more very important benefits. The housing allowance, the child's allowance, the allowance of mountainous and disadvantaged areas and, finally, the allowance of minimum guaranteed income. All three of these benefits, together with the fourth before, are tools, mainly aimed at strengthening family income, so as to improve the quality of life of minors members of eligible households. I stress it, of minors. Our own policies have the child itself, and such a public policy must be coordinated with the primary commitment of an organised state, that is to say, to ensure that every child has satisfactory access to proper education. As far as benefits for mountain and disadvantaged areas are concerned, it is notable that it is in fact guaranteed, tax-free and incompatible with this aid. They have nothing to do with what you of the previous government baptised yourself as a thirteenth pre-electionary, purely electoral pension, which was massively indeterminate to beneficiaries. Of course, we are reintroducing the constitutionally most guaranteed minimum guaranteed income. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, it is the government's duty to ensure both the sustainability of our insurance system and social cohesion and, of course, the protection of our country's productive potential. These benefits come as first measures to address the demographic problem. They do not solve this, but they are strengthening the effort in this direction. We can now tell the young people who have ceased to dream of family creation, how you can start dreaming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Zachariadis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u230	We have already heard from the Minister that society is being threatened by division. The question is: Where are we threatened, how have we reached this division and who is responsible? He said that and he left. Indeed, to legislate on the basis of what is written on the Internet and a panic, but to say in the morning, at noon, but to propose one of your Members two speakers from the Step of the House shows a situation which is inappropriate to the serious process of legislating. When you manage a football crisis, how do you manage the crisis in the refugee - immigration? How can you manage the difficulties in foreign policy? Mr. Augias is absolutely notorious. He's not coming to Parliament, he's hidden. The Minister came in, announced something and left running. Unfortunately, you are a government, because of your incompetence, your arson positions and your management failure, you are creating a definite situation. That is why tomorrow in the roll-call vote we will each take the responsibility for it. The football championship, first of all, must be played on the field, not on the Maximos Mansion. You've been illegal once, you've illegald second time. You are constantly doing illegality, and when you talk about interventions in justice, you will have to be much more careful from now on. I really don't know exactly why Mr. Zorgokis was deleted. The reason why Mr Zorgorkis was deleted this morning is the amendment that came to Parliament this afternoon. Isn't that right? Isn't that the reality? So I am waiting until the meeting is closed, to see where the government proposal will end up in this cradle. However, I would like to talk about the bill, because this well-advertised EUR 2 000 birth allowance, as the report says, is one of the foundations of demographic policy, as the government says. It is, it says, the country's huge challenge over the next few years. In fact, demographic policy. We, as our rapporteur said, are voting in favour of the article and voting against the bill. But let's go uncover hypocrisy. Is it or is it not a demographic policy the issue of minimum wages? What did you say in the election? You said he'd go to twice the growth rate. What are you doing? You're referring it to the bells. Aggregate this income for new couples to see who does and who doesn't make a demographic policy. To be able to make demographic policy, do you need to protect our first residence, or will we ruin our hearts, as the Minister says, from May 1st? Is it or is it not a demographic policy to protect first residence? The cost of energy that went up in the summer of 20% allegedly to save the Public Power Corporation? It is or is not a demographic policy of energy costs for poor and weak households. The question of occupational safety, which you have come and dismantle the whole legislative framework, is it or is it not a demographic policy? Is the question of public education and public health which you unblock every week and every month - either by bills or amendments - or is it not a matter of demographic policy? How is the other child going to do when you break him on all fronts, but you give him 2,000 euros. Obviously, we have no disagreement about the EUR 2 000 and still in instalments. We'd all say together. But in any case, a more comprehensive plan is needed. When the insurance contributions are increased by 20% for 80% of the free traders, what kind of demographic policy is this? Which direction does it go in? Finally, because the time of this governance goes on, what is this plan for Brain gain? Who's responsible for Brain Drain? How does the country's bankruptcy relate to the demographic collapse and when will you confess your historic responsibilities for this great disaster that has been following us for years? For there must be social cohesion in order for there to be a demographic expansion, there must be social capital, there must be social infrastructure. Do you believe that? No, you don't. You're advocating them. You slander them in every word of your policy. We made an important start in difficult years with school meals, with free access to nurseries for all children - for all! - with the new architecture of children's benefits, with the social income of solidarity, with the housing allowance, with the reduction of unemployment by 10%, with the significant reinforcement of the pre-accession budget. So in order for there to be demographic policy in a country there must be political support for society, there must be political support for the middle class. All that you bring and legislate all this time is on the reverse. Because you fight socialism and save the market. The deregulation that you are bringing to work and to the economy will unfortunately also deregulation the demographics. The country, therefore, needs a strong social state, needs a strong pro-active policy, needs public and effective health, needs public and effective education, needs strong cohesion policies. The country needs progressive policies to be able to deal with its demographic issue and not make artificial separations as to whether or not it can be solved with refugees or immigrants. You do so and cultivate such an atmosphere to further exacerbate a racism and a dissatisfaction in this matter. If, then, you have the political maturity and political courage you bring medium-sized policies, bring social state support policies. Put the racism aside. We are not harmed by the people who come from other countries, who are involved in Greek education and want to become Greeks. This is our tradition, this is our route. Look back in our history and go ahead with a strong policy without fear and without obedience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u231	Mr. Zachariadis, thank you for the time. Mrs Pulou Panagiou has the floor from SYRIZA. I hope that you, too, will be in the context of Mr Zachariadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u232	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, children are our future and of course we all want children to be born, but also to be supported to grow well and balanced. I'm a child of a lot of family. I have four favorite brothers and I know experientially how important it is to have such a fortune. Children are the most important property in our society. The allowance we are debating today is a birth support measure which cannot, however, affect much more than that to reverse the already shaped for the next decades. This is because it is not registered by what appears to be an integrated demographic policy planning. Demographic policy is a strategy that is consistent with the way in which we choose to organise our society, as Alexis Tsipras pointed out during the debate in the previous House. Ladies and gentlemen, the EUR 2 000 will be spent very soon. Afterwards, children and their families will be found to face the same problems as low family income, unemployment, lack of infrastructure, precise education, care and so on. Of course it has been a pre-election commitment and we are pleased that you at least respect it, even in this way, since January 1st, which is a straitjacket, because it deprives of the families who have had a child during the first five months of your administration. Your voters protest strongly in this debate. The words they use and repeat are "greatly negative", "critical and irrational", "depressive and insulting", "tragic injustice", while many point out that this announcement was a key reason why they voted for you. On the other hand, we should point out that if the billions are deducted from the total budget for the social state, that is to say, if the budget for the birth allowance means simply reallocating social expenditure, that is to say, some other expenditure, then the measure is not positive, speaking macroscopicly. The EUR 2 000 must be an additional aid to an extended policy for the child. I would remind you that the SYRIZA government increased the expenditure for the child from EUR 822 million in 2015 to EUR 1 billion in 416 million, and in times of crisis with suffocating pressures for cutbacks by lenders. Today the crisis is over, and you yourself are talking about a development boost. At the same time, however, you are shrinking the social state. Public health is beginning to have serious problems, CFPs are downgrading, serious shortages in schools so far and many other examples are seen. But all this, ladies and gentlemen, is of direct relevance to demographic policy, and it is worth seeing how you are acting, because it is probably your ideological blindfolds that prevent you from seeing the problem as a whole and dealing with it. To realise that the integrated demographic policy is not aimed at a timely improvement of indicators such as increasing births, but at its core, as experts say, is the search for the balance point between economic requirements, social needs and changes in the population. You only propose the demands of the economy. You are completely missing the dynamic and productive dimension of changes in the population at the time of global migration. This is reflected in the divisions and social exclusions introduced under the 12-year permanent and legal residence criterion in the country of citizens of third countries, the exclusion from child, housing and minimum guaranteed income for children who repeat classrooms, measures that are contrary to the values and positions of international organisations of the UN and European Union countries, as explained by the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Theanos Fotio. They are measures that cancel the possibility of proper national planning beyond the problematic ideological patterns they serve. Generally speaking, the government is occupied by a narrow, conservative and reactionary conception of Hellenism. He refuses the historical assimilation power that Greek society has. He refuses what the poet says "foreign bouquet in the local soil". Instead of realising the challenge of the dynamic reconstruction of Greek society, it is based on a static obsolete and false conception of the nation. Election of xenophobia, social division and concern in Greek society. Unfortunately, it continues today with statements about the deterioration of our nation. But, with another approach to the analysis of Professor Stathis Kalyvas, we can turn the concerns that exist in Greek society in a more productive direction, national rather than demographic continuity. As gene studies have shown, modern nations consist of individuals with many different origins. What makes us a collective entity is a function of many factors, such as language and conscience that we belong to a nation. If we highlight this relationship in a smart and above all open way, then we will have won a great bet: the continuity of Hellenism. Without this open spirit, you cannot plan modern and effective demographic policy, even though you have the tools. The report of the intergroup on demographics states that subsidised policies should be accompanied by policies to harmonise family, personal and working life, safeguards against the risk of household poverty with active employment policies, targeted policies for migration and refugee populations, to prevent and eliminate social exclusion, as well as policies to eliminate racial inequalities and discrimination in the labour market and in private family life. This is a modern demographic policy and you have no excuse for not following it. It means, among other things, strengthening the network of nurseries, paid parental leave, reducing youth unemployment, supporting new couples, and much more long-lived. Instead, in your six months of governance, unemployment is growing, social structures are shrinking, you are pushing society into the arms of private initiative in health and education. Thus, the family costs of raising children are increased and the effectiveness of any benefits is null and void. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Effective demographic policy still requires real gender equality. The European experience shows that family-friendly working conditions not only for women, but also for men - I shall end, Mr President - are a prerequisite for having more than one child. Women's employment is no longer negatively related to fertility. The woman in the home and in the household, who is the prime minister, is on the reverse of the modern needs for birth growth policy and for trying to design a better future for all. Ladies and gentlemen of the Complex, we invite you to strengthen the social state and the policy for the child for all children, so that the birth allowance, which we shall vote on, makes sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u233	Thank you. Mr Athanasios Ljupis from the New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is, in my opinion, important. And it is important not only for the financial support of each family who has a child, but also because it marks the message that the Greek state is taking care of the families, aiming at the fight against subnatality. For decades we have been following the decline in the population, without appropriate measures being taken to curb the phenomenon, which directly affects young ages, productive ages and the sustainability of the insurance system. Now, we're an old people who think about their future. Only in Crete and the islands of the southern Aegean are more born than those who die. This declining course is found to start in the late 1980s, so the fertility index fell below 1.5, a decisive limit. In fact, experts point out that the society that has fallen below this threshold is difficult to return. The estimates are that our country's population by 2050 will be eight million to eight million five hundred thousand. Despite the corresponding bad predictions, there are countries such as France, England and the Scandinavian countries, which have significantly improved their fertility rates. It is necessary for Greece to motivate families to have more children and the first step is taking place today with the bill under discussion. The allowance of 2,000 euros per child born in Greece was a promise of the Prime Minister and it becomes a reality. Is the problem of the birth and ageing of the population in this way solved? Of course not. The problem is multifactorial, it is complex and is related to significant social changes, such as the position taken by modern women in Greek society and the labour market. Moreover, Greek women choose to have fewer children with a fertility index of 1.3 to 1.4, when 1.5 to 2 is for the renewal of generations, at an older age, at 31.5 years, with figures of 2017, while the number of women who do not acquire children has increased significantly, where it exceeds 20%, one of the highest rates in the European Union. Of course, the massive departure of young people from abroad over the last decade has further exacerbated the situation. Today's bill does not promise that we have found a solution to the country's demographic problem. However, the government gives a first substantial amount of assistance to each family to meet the first costs of the newborn. The birth allowance is actually granted to all families, except for those who do not need it - a rate of about 1% - with a limit of 60,000 euros annually for the mother alone, 70,000 euros for the couple without children and 100,000 for the couple with three children. Very importantly, the allowance is not taxed at all and is not confiscated by any source, neither by public or credit institutions. The beneficiaries are Greek citizens, Greek citizens, European citizens, and citizens of third countries who have lived permanently and legally in Greece over the last 12 years. And why twelve years? The choice of the 12-year limit ensures that beneficiaries are families that have indeed chosen Greece as their country of permanent residence and have developed stable links here. In addition, it is of a demographic and not a foretaste. In addition to the arrangements for the birth allowance, the bill makes small, but key interventions as a whole in the field of pre-school policy. The tax-free and irresponsible treatment of households of mountainous and disadvantaged areas is being introduced. This allowance is received by families with a total income of 2.200 euros per year, namely families living with less than 200 euros a month in remote areas of Greece. Therefore, the new regulation is a imperative support for these people. The current government has firmly demonstrated that it is constantly trying to combat bureaucracy and simplify procedures for citizens' communication with the state. Almost all bills provide for provisions that move in this direction. Today's bill does the statement and registration of the birth of the child once and for all in the maternity hospital, with an obligation to inform all public services, without that being the case for a different procedure on the part of the parents. In the same context of simplification, each birth permit operation includes the Tax Register Number and Social Security Register Number. The citizens' facilitation and the fight against bureaucracy shall be acted upon and in accordance with the provision providing for electronic access to the services of the EPC, such as attestations, evidence of insurance information, etc. Finally, a social problem but also an educational problem is that there are families who do not comply with compulsory schooling for their children, so there is still a percentage of children who do not even complete primary school. The current arrangements relate to the payment of the child's allowance, the housing allowance, the minimum guaranteed income, which was recently introduced by the Constitutional Review, as well as the actual schooling of minors in a family. In conclusion, the government constantly proves that it closely monitors the needs of the citizens and stands alongside the social groups that need support. The social policy of previous years, despite the announcements of the previous government, was based on a logic of reliance on specific benefits. The current government is ensuring that the necessary aid is provided, that new forms of support are created, but above all that it should aim to bring about the recovery of the Greek economy, so that all economicly weaker people and, of course, today it proves that it is taking concrete measures and that it is the beginning of an effort to alleviate the serious phenomenon of birthhood, aiming at the future of the next generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr President, for keeping time. Pascalides John from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in a country where the unborn child is defenseless and the demographic problem has a nightmareous national dimension, bills as they see it as oasis to the unhospitable desert of our time and offer smiles to everyone. The government of Mr Mitsotakis with today's draft law comes to implement all the election commitments to design a policy based on the support of the Greek family, which is now a precondition for national survival. The commitment that was the crown of this strategy is to support EUR 2 000 for every child born on 1 January 2020 in Greece, even introducing very extensive income criteria, so that this aid can be obtained by the vast majority of the new Greek families and not, of course, by those who do not need it, as will be analysed below. However, this is only one of the measures aimed at restoring the ingenuity, which poses a significant threat to further declining the population in Greece, as is apparent from the statistics of the Greek Parliament. In 2020, birth reduction and ageing populations are expected to continue. Increasingly fewer children will meet in the playgrounds and in school units, while, on the contrary, the meeting places of the elderly will grow. Unfortunately, if the country continues at the same rate, without drastic measures being taken to resolve the demographic problem, which is agitating our country, in 2050, we will barely reach eight million, of which almost three million will be old. And this is a conservative scenario, because it is likely that new couples will continue not to have many children because of economic difficulties and a series of other endogenous and exogenous factors. With a view, therefore, to halting the birth rate and addressing the demographic problem, a number of measures have already been taken by the present government and even more will be taken in the future. I mention attributes the tax-free limit for each child to be increased by EUR 1,000, but also the subjection to the low VAT rate for all baby and baby species for young mothers. As far as this bill is concerned, the allowance will be paid in two equal instalments of EUR 1,000, the first instalment of which will be paid in the last working week of next month of birth and the other EUR 1,000 after six months. It will be granted to the mother or father or other person exercising custody of the child, if he or she is legally and permanently resident in the Greek territory and has the status of Greek citizen or foreigner, citizen of a Member State of the European Union or citizen of a third country residing permanently in Greece for the last 12 years before the child's birth. Exceptionally, for children born in Greece in 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, the allowance is granted if the mother of that third-country citizen resides permanently in the Greek territory from 2012 onwards. The beneficiary of the allowance is the mother, even if it does not belong to one of these categories, since it resides legally and permanently in Greece and if the father belongs to one of the above categories. I note that this income allowance is paid to 99% of the citizens. In particular, the bill sets out its allocation based on the equivalent family income, the limit of which is set at EUR 40,000 per annum, as shown by the tax declaration. An equivalent family income shall be defined as the total actual or imputable income from each source of domestic and foreign origin before tax after deduction of social security contributions, with the exception of allowances which are not counted on the taxable income of all members of the family, divided by the equivalence scale. The draft law expressly describes the level of equivalence depending on the family. It is also worth noting that the allowance is not regarded as income and is exempted from any tax, levy, levy or reservation in favour of the public or third parties, including the special solidarity contribution, while neither is confiscated nor offset for debts to the public and banks. The application will be submitted either to the civil registry information system subsystem for the birth declaration or directly to the OPEK system for the birth allowance. In addition to the introduction for the first time of the birth allowance, however, this draft law also updates the conditions for granting four more allowances. In particular, with regard to child benefit, housing and minimum guaranteed income due to the need for budgetary stability, the 12-year stay for citizens of third countries not from a country of the European Union and not subject to a special protection scheme is laid down as an additional criterion, and the compulsory schooling of children of the benefiting families is laid down as an additional criterion, since these three allowances are allowances for the ultimate purpose of raising the standard of living. In addition, as regards the benefit of mountain and disadvantaged areas, the tax-free and incompatible aid is envisaged as a measure to safeguard the income of beneficiary families, given that adverse living conditions in these areas generate additional costs. In addition to other arrangements, the terms and conditions of the CRL shall be specified in this draft law and shall be deleted by the CRL for legal and natural persons by 31 January of the following calendar year. In particular, such debts shall be written off from twenty years after the year of the attestation, provided that the total amount of the debts to the ECA does not exceed EUR 30 per debtor, and that arrears not exceeding EUR 10 are entered. Noteworthy and the provision of Article 28 of the draft law, whereby the possibility of developing e-government transactions at Level 4 is established in the context of the digital transformation of the NCA and allows insured persons to trade electronically with the services of the ECAI. To conclude, I would like to stress that the sole objective of this bill is to support the Greek family and to improve the lives of all citizens, so its vote is the duty of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u237	We thank my fellow Member for the time. Mr. Constantopoulos, in the time of your previous colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are debating today a bill which, according to the Ministry, aims to tackle the demographic problem. The main, of course, pillar of the bill is the granting of the birth allowance. This allowance has been announced by the government in recent months. In my assessment, Minister, I will say that his allocation does not seem to be against us. Besides, everything that works in support of the new couples finds us in agreement. However, the question remains whether the conditions under which the allowance will be granted have been specified, as well as whether the arrangements can actually provide the necessary support for the new couples. The aim and request is for us, I would say, and for everyone to raise births. However, by questioning the present draft law, we see that the present arrangements are not enough. There was therefore a need for persistent dialogue with all the social partners, which was not done, because the fragmentary legislation of a allowance cannot provide support and, indeed, support for new couples, nor, of course, reverse the horrific scenarios for the population of Greece, for a country that is ageing. Ladies and gentlemen, according to studies, Greece's population over the next twenty years is expected to be nine and a half million, when Turkey's equivalent population will be eighty-five million. So, basically, the treatment of demographics needs a national strategy, which we have not seen. A national strategy, therefore, with strong incentives especially for young people, and less than thirty years old, to stay in the country, to create a family to childbirth. Already as a country we experience the effects of Brain Drain, where young scientists and young people, due to unemployment and low wages, leave Greece, as they are not, of course, given the opportunity to work, develop and create their own family. So the bet for all of us should be Brain Drain to become Brain Gain. Today, more than ever, we need to formulate an integrated family policy that supports couples. In fact, new couples should give them the opportunity to childbirth. There should be family allowances without asterisks. At last, Minister, the free access to nursery and childcare facilities for every child should be regarded as self-evident. Financial support for studies should be universal. It should also be universal care for single parents and children with disabilities. It is therefore necessary to fund the municipalities to form structures centred on the child and the family. Minister, the Change Movement, in 2018, tabled a proposal for a law on national demographic policy and family support, in fact recording - I would say - an integrated plan to tackle the demographic crisis. It is of course a good thing that the government today adopts some of our proposals. But it does - I would say - with carelessness and fragmentation. In this draft law we tabled amendments with concrete proposals. We invite you to accept them. In particular, we are calling for the establishment of a Special Secretariat for Demographic Policy to draw up an integrated programme and with an integrated plan for demographics, by taking family support measures, as well as the creation of Counselling and Support Centres for the municipalities, the integration of third families into multi-texts, the introduction of the incompatibility of the child's allowance, the increase in half of the birth allowance. This is, of course, in the event of the acquisition of a second child within the thirty-month period. We also call for the transfer of basic infant species to the low VAT rate, as well as other arrangements, which our rapporteur, Mr Mulkiotis, has made known to you. I shall also refer to the amendment that we tabled to regain the self-sufficiency of the social support and training centres for people with disabilities that, as you know, are still working in the Ministry of Labour's Social Protection Centres. And this is to improve their operation and make the existing structures the best use of. We call on you, Minister, to accept both these amendments. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, tackling the demographic problem needs to be at the heart of the new national development strategy plan for the country. The provision of financial incentives and facilities to parents and prospective parents is absolutely essential in every direction. In fact, I would say that in every direction the state should move seriously and aware of the situation, without large-scale, announcements and with semi-meters. Along with the motives, however, we must support the institution of the family, which in recent decades has been subjected to severe blows, leading to ingenuity and malnutrition of its value. We are, in principle, positive towards the bill. We urge you, Minister, to adopt our proposals as well. Finally, before I am also presenting myself with the contested amendment from the Ministry of Sports, I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that you have exploited the wrath of the world for the SYRIZA. I'd say you put the cubit on high. You misused the grace period. We danced for dignity and regularity. Here, may I refer you and remind you of the choice of hospital managers. And now we see, with your amendment today, your reasoning on the maintenance of legality. I am speaking of the content of the amendment. One is the conclusion: you failed as a government in the management of Greek football and Greek championship. You are creating major issues today before the court judgement is even issued. You're changing the law. However, you continue to speak of legitimacy. The responsibility, of course, is yours. I'd say that as you set up, you'll go! Madam Minister, the message and demand of society are: 'No' two metres and two weights. ‘No’ discounts. ‘No’ changes. ‘No’ suspensions. "No" has the power to win. 'No' decisions at beam. However, for all of us, it is one message for politicians: politics must not be played. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u239	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Charalambos Mamoulakis has the floor from SYRIZA. Please, Mr. Colleague, be within time limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. Before we welcome the New Democracy to the wonderful world of social policy, let me make a comment on the famous amendment that this House has been discussing in the last few hours. This is an amendment that is inconsistent with the subject, and that is an aptitude of the bad legislation. Beyond these conditions, it also raises huge issues. A number of previous speakers have been particularly surprised. If anything, it creates trembling and disrupts cohesion in an area such as sport, with many dimensions, unfortunately, and negative effects. I think the New Democracy will pay this price of imposition, of interference through procedures. We know very well that this committee procedure is under way. And it comes by law to change the course of any such development. Our Parliamentary spokesman very clearly said that, in fact, with one mistake, you do not correct things when another mistake has already been made. You're just causing absolute chaos. And that's what's gonna happen in the next few days. By entering the issue, of course, of the current draft law on birth benefits and other provisions, clearly the first article finds us in agreement. That is why I have expressed the view that the New Democracy welcomes this logic. This is logical, of course, a proposal, a move and a piece of legislation, which does not solve the demographic problem. The demographic problem is a huge issue for the country and it has many dimensions. In fact, it comes to ratify and confirm our own policy of previous years, where, by receiving a land waste, within the limits of the humanitarian crisis, I would like to stress to the House that the first piece of legislation of the SYRIZA Government, in 2015, was precisely this - it created a treaty, an umbrella, in fact, so that we can strengthen the winter family: the child's allowance, the housing allowance, the social income of solidarity, that is, the KEA, in which the New Democracy is now trying to rename the failed context of the past. I would particularly like to exhort three articles, Article 15, Article 17 and Article 29 of this bill, in which, unfortunately, we find the punishing provision that abolishes allowances if a child of a family - whatever children have lost her school year of absence. You know, you're being chased by supposedly excellence everywhere. Because we have seen the appointments of your own masters with fake curriculum and degrees. And now we have doubtful college titles. In fact, you want to exclude certain vulnerable social groups from the benefits. You challenge all concepts of justice and equality, after giving benefits according to the origin of the children. For example, citizens of third countries need a 12-year continuous presence in the country, legal and permanent, clearly presumed by tax declarations. For example, if it was eight years of legal, permanent and uninterrupted existence, which will be substantiated by the tax figures, that right shall not be granted. I think I mean it. The aim, of course, is to cut thousands of beneficiaries, a measure which - I dare say - is intended by a racist spirit. The concepts of solidarity, justice and equality are so foreign that you do not miss a chance to show it to us even by laws concerning the child. Your policy conflicts with the rights of the child guaranteed by constitutional law. You, the so-called Europeanists, are completely indifferent to European law. Your contradiction and discomfort in strengthening the weaknesses is reflected daily in one of your policies. But the people do not forget it so easily. He does not forget that SYRIZA and his policies kept society upright. We received an empty fund in 2015, a society in collapse. Kids fainted in schools. We have, however, succeeded and kept society up, and many times with unilateral actions against the institutions. I would remind you that the humanitarian crisis law was indeed the first law passed by the SYRIZA Government. The SYRIZA government reduced unemployment from 27% to 17%. We have created three hundred thousand new jobs with 70% of them actually full-time. Repeat the collective agreements. He increased the minimum wage and much more. This is all a policy to tackle the demographic problem, ladies and gentlemen. To continue with numbers, because many times mathematics are stubborn and are not disproved, we doubled the vouchers' positions at nursery stations. We received seventy thousand seats and put in 2019 a hundred and fifty - six thousand children, satisfying all the demands. I remind you that SYRIZA has integrated the unemployed mothers and all the mothers who live below the poverty line in the program. We established every day a hundred and eighty - five thousand hot school meals. With all our policies we have reduced poverty to the pre-crisis levels and it is also reflected in ELSTAT's investigations and measurements. It is indicative that the beneficiaries of the social income of solidarity from six hundred thousand in 2019 fell to seventy thousand, which actually proves that our policies were not of a charity, as you say, but of a essence, as 30% joined the labour market. These are examples based on numbers, which, as I said before, are inconsistent. You are, as a matter of fact, concerned with the demographic problem. Since 1993, at the time of Constantine Mitsotakis, there has been a unanimous intergroup decision of the Committee of Parliament proposing concrete measures to deal with demographics. So far you have done nothing at all about it. And I'm telling you, a multitude, a father of four children. Even at the time of fat cows, child poverty in Greece was over 25%, the highest percentage throughout Europe. Yes, then, at the time of the masculine growth, which demonstrated in the course that he had clay legs. You who in the years of crisis saw children faint in schools and as opposition voted against the school meals that SYRIZA instituted, are now talking about demographics. Your policy is based on fireworks and communications tricks and has no social dimension and perspective. Repeat the memorial logic of one-off aids, but this only applies to part of the world that needs it. You do exactly what the IMF said. What we did not do while the IMF was in Greece, you are now applying it, while we took the country out of the memos. We will not stop fighting for a state of solidarity and welfare that recognises equal rights for all citizens. We hug all the children of the world, regardless of color, religion or ethnicity. Because that's just the left DNA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Mouzalas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr President. Members of the Co-Population, the New Democracy, think that you will get very large marks for two originals which will be discussed in Europe and missing from Europe. One is your amazing opportunity to change the laws depending on what you want to do. You didn't come out of the NSA for the one you wanted, you changed him. It didn't make it possible to be private universities, you did college equilibrium. The simple analogue didn't come out, you didn't want it, you crippled it all over. Your poster retired people of some age didn't come out, you brought them. Exemption of banks from liability, black money. You know, it's not common politics and you should at the conferences see it, discuss it, get Europe out of it. I mean, how? Based on the juncture, I'm changing the law. And that's what you did now for football, where you screwed up and obviously you don't know how to play ball, much more than I do not know at all. The second prototype that should be passed throughout Europe and put it in the People's Party and that the Left and Social Democracies should see it, is that you have solved the demographic with 2 000 for childbirth. You're mad. It is a positive measure that you have brought. Why didn't you bring it like that, to vote, to finish. It's a positive measure. Oh, no! The country's demography is undone! You have no idea, from the height you stand in society, the conditions under which someone has a child. I'm an obstetrician. I've born thousands of children. What do you mean? You mean that because they're taking 2,000, they're gonna have kids? They're not afraid of childbirth costs, where 2,000 is a lot of help. The next forty years are afraid. They're afraid of the years when children are growing up. They fear the years when children go to school. They fear the years when children have to study. They're afraid of what the kids will do after they're studying. Oh, no. You, with a magnificence unbelievable, have solved the issue of demographics with 2 000 birth benefits, which is very positive and I shall end up making the other proposals. If you didn't put all these verbalisms, the masturbations for the demographics, I'd stop here. I'd say you brought a positive subway, Mrs. Undersecretary, that's what you brought, let's go down. But all your policy is undemocratic. What we have voted on these seven months that you have become government works against the country's demographic problem and the solutions that this House, unanimously, had proposed. I do not mention SYRIZA's policy, which, obviously, for me, was much more friendly than that. It wasn't for you. Okay. The lack of collective agreements, however, is against demographicism. The lack of wage increases and elastic work is against demographics. The abolition of the thirteenth pension is against the demographics. The increase in the transfer tax is against the demographics. The electricity price rises are against the demographics. The increase in evidence is against demographics. The increase of ENVY through the increase of objective values is against demographics. The reduction in industrial production that we have had in the past two months is against. The increase in unemployment is against demographics. The reduction of education finances, the deterioration of the public health system, is against demographics. The refusal to remove the gender inequalities that we have put into the Constitution and the neglect of women from equality of rights with men is against demographics. Someone dared and said here the word 'born child'. It's like you're saying 'causing fire'. There is no such definition. It's an ideal thing. It's against the demographics. Elastic work, the abolition of school meals, the thirty-two closed university departments, the abolition of law, the equalisation of colleges and their advertising by your MPs are against demographics. He dared to say here - you consider the Greek hailers, I do not know to tell you - that the reduction of the luxury tax on cars within the framework of demographic measures is the reduction of the luxury tax on cars. Are you going to drive us crazy? Why -- he says -- they're taken by the polytexts. What can I tell you now? Do they get Cayenne the multitude? What exactly do polytecs get? It's 1% of the cars in the tents. Fortunately you did not say that the abolition of the tax on ships is something that helps multiples. The Brain Drain. You're going to fire graduates with postgraduate diplomas to bring four thousand nine hundred ninety-nine and Mr. Kyursu's son. Is this thing serious? Does it help in the demographics? Benefits. You've come to the benefits. You didn't come with your soul. Because you're making a allowance and you're mocking three. That means that you do have a consequence of being against the benefits and that this allowance, which is positive and I will vote as a mother-in-law with all my heart, does not believe it. It's a propaganda trick of what you do every time, which will work. But once they realize that a child's allowance will be cut because Roma does not go to school, because the dyslexic child does not go to school, because the dyskinetic child does not go to school because the child with a distraction doesn't go to school, you will punish a family, people will again understand. What are you doing? You can't do social policy. The emblem in your vulnerable is unknown as a legal treaty. You are unknown as solidarity. He's known as charity, like a gala, as something like that. "The cigarettes don't go to school, cut off their allowance", instead of seeing how the gypsies go to school. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Twelve years instead of five, why? Antetokounbo can't have a child here and get the allowance. What is that logic? Why 12 and not fourteen? Why 12 and not eight? Why do you want to express through this thing to your extreme right wing that, all right, children, we have to make some retreats under European law, but we do not even overtake it, hoping that, as you have absorbed the Golden Dawn voters, you probably tomorrow to absorb the voters of the Greek Solution. I heard about alteration of the nation. Did Antetokunbo alter the nation? The Churchanite has altered the nation? You go out and talk. You're getting hanged, you're doing, you're sewing. You don't say it like the Greek solution. You say it more elegantly. But elegance is in your word. It's not what you believe in. And my problem and the problem of SYRIZA - I've told you before - is not if you love the poor, it's not if you love the vulnerable, it's not if you love the "harps," it's not if you love the gypsies if you love the Jews. I don't care who you love. The House loves the rule of law and the House must defend the rule of law. You're stalking it, too. I shall make three specific proposals. With the exception of this custom of KINAL when he talks, speaking about two-thirds of his time against SYRIZA, so he gets a reward that he didn't fall and completely, I will agree, I will very positively consider the proposal for a cross-party secretariat for the demographics. To be able to do scientific things.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u243	Mr. Colleague, we've reached eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u244	I'm done. I also wanted to propose this: I know that the proposal I am going to make to you now cannot be accepted immediately. But I put it to study it. I think we should put VAT on delivery to childbirth and cancer at a symbolic rate of 1%. Childbirth and cancer are the battle of life with death, backwards at a time. She can't have 24% VAT. I would ask you to look at the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u245	Mr Jikalaya Zésis has the floor now from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with great interest from the chairs of the Chamber to two colleagues from the SYRIZA, the colleague and medics, the obstetrician, Mr Muzala, as well as the multitude of Mr Mamulaki, whom I appreciate and respect for his offer to the family and home and his efforts to raise his children. A few hours ago, however, I listened with great interest to the political speech of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative Mr Tsakalotou. And because we are the same generation of ages and politically he brought me thirty-five to forty years back. And I cannot take the opportunity to respond to what he said, because his whole speech was a lot of minutes, since as a parliamentary representative he was able to develop it. So, then, there was the ideological confrontation between liberalism and Marxism - Leninism, between capitalism - as Mr Tsakalotos said - and communism, when freedom and democracy were confronted with equality, as the left-wing social justice said at the time. For us equality was equality in opportunity. And in the civil libertarian regime we all want to have equal opportunities in vindicating and finding their way both in life and in society. And this was done with Mr. Tsakalotos, who, with his value, reached the highest positions of the university and academic community in Greece and abroad - on the national and foreign territory - with all the resulting consequences. When one arrives at a high scientific level, he will have the economic gains that he deserves. I do not know if Mr Tsakalotos would achieve these goals if his own ideology of Marxism - Leninism in those years prevailed in a country. However, I am quite sure that if I maintained those ideological and philosophical principles and were in a country where the ideologies of that so-called socialism, Marxism and Leninism dominated, not only would I not have this possibility of scientific elevation, but I would also be deprived of freedom and democracy, which we consider to be a given country. But the problem with Mr. Tsakalotos and the Left today is that by 2014 you had arguments. You said that after the relocation, the country was governed by a liberal centre-right party with a socialist party - I know - the centre-left party, the PASOK. The real left had not come to power. But here, where in 2015 and four and a half years you have had the opportunity, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, to rule and have been distracted. And, though, let it down. The so-called moral advantage of the Left has been demolished. And that is the present problem of Mr Tsakalotou, who is a left ideologist. That is the problem of your tomorrow's existence. I wish you soon to overcome your ideological, existential and strategic problems, because in democracy everyone needs it. We also believe in confrontation and the struggle of ideas. We simply believe that our ideological principles are better and where they have been implemented in the world - and have dominated most of the world - there the citizens prosper most. So this bill, Mrs. Undersecretary, which you worked very well, came to put a good little stone on the big issue of Greece's modern political life, the demographics. And it's a huge problem. It's a national problem. It's the biggest problem our country has today. Another government - as I said in the Committee on Social Affairs - which dealt seriously with this issue, was again the New Democracy Government thirty years ago and had a Mitsotakis Prime Minister again. At that time the relentless had commissioned a State Secretary for the Government to undertake an economic study of the problem. And this study concluded that if Greece wants to solve demographics in the bicentennial, it must invest in the third child. And to say my position - as I have been saying for years, I have just been able to hear it now more and I will keep saying it - that to solve demographics policy must be specific. When we talk about a third child, his family should contractually get the wages of the unskilled worker until he becomes an adult. The third child, however, is a distant target. The second child is the target now. So we could say he gets that half of the unskilled worker’s pay until he gets an adult. I think the country's budgets will be allowed to do so soon and we can do so. What we are voting on today, the EUR 2 000 for each birth, is a very good start. It shows the government's intention. It shows the government's seriousness and responsibility, because we said it months before the elections, and we do so immediately. From that point on, our government will unfold its policy next time with the role we will play in the operation of daycare stations. We will try to make it easier for municipalities to make kindergartens. That will be the strong incentive beyond economics. The woman, mother and family can let the child grow up with dignity and right. Now, as far as - because I do not have much time - I do not have much time - for the benefits linked from one side to the economic criteria, on the other hand, to residence, clearly and there must be a residence period. It has been appointed twelve years. They could be eleven, be thirteen - always there is a limit - to have an experiential relationship with Greece and our culture. We know, ladies and gentlemen, that in the coming years we must creatively absorb some hundreds of thousands, not more, refugees or citizens from other countries. However, because we believe over time that the Greeks "equates the participants of Greek education", we will do our best to participate and participate in Greek education. This will make us not have tensions, no convergences and will contribute to social cohesion and to the sense of security, first and foremost, of the Greek citizen, what we are interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u247	We thank my fellow Member for the time. Mr. Theophilos Xanthiopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA, who is always in his time. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u248	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I shall begin by referring only to the issue of the agenda, which is the bill for the child, because we have practically exhausted the procedure from morning until today. I would like to say the following. We support the EUR 2 000 allowance. It is a move that really meets the conditions and difficulties of the Greek family today, but it should not be a pretext and, above all, it is a mistaken argument that this is how we solve demographics. There is the House's finding and it is clearly stated that there must be good jobs, that there must be security, that there must be a social state. These are the prerequisites, these are the factors for the eugenics and the country's substantial demographic recovery. I would therefore like, after closing my reference to the major issue of the third child, to stick to the amendments which are of great interest, in our view. We have made an amendment to the CFPs and CFPs. It is a very important aspect of the everyday life of these people and children with special needs. The nature of these structures must be permanent, integrated into the social services of the municipalities, permanent jobs must be available through APA so that this adventurous annual activity of parents does not exist for what is going to be done with these children, whether they are with disabilities or are not with disabilities. It is a very important parameter, and that is what really helps the development of the family and not just a fragmentary allowance or, in any case, as it is given in the form you deposit it. Secondly, I will talk about the famous amendment, Ausgarian. I, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, although Macedonian, am not PAOKtzzis, I am Doxos, I am "DRAMAS" and, therefore, I am a third in this story. Mr Augias succeeded and did two self-government at the same time, one by changing the composition of the committee and one by the amendment itself. Tomorrow it will succeed third self-government by voting for the amendment and, in addition, by remaining in collective memory as a gambler, it will also claim a place in the book Ginas. You may cause the fighting of the Greek society with these behaviors, but the problem is much deeper. You ignore the institutional order, you get dissatisfied, you think you can operate according to the beam, move against it, and now you'll pay for it. Finally, I would like to insist on the issue of the amendment tabled in relation to the judiciary. I would first like to address both the lawyers and the non-legislators in the Chamber, so my position will be a dissimilar one. We have a process that since birth has been unacceptable. At the end of the period, twelve more than eleven, more than fourteen, there was a sudden 'hidden and violating' amendment which we lawyers were saying to tell us what? The fact that the pipeline to the identifiers will only apply to the actions of a multi-judgmental court. It's hypocritical. We at the Drama Court of First Instance - I did an investigation - in 2019 we had twenty-five multi-faceted court rulings and in 2018 we had twenty-two decisions. The justification for establishing the pipeline was to avoid predatory actions in the multi-member prima facie cases only. Where the amount of appeals is, i.e. in the courts of peace and in the courts of one of the Member States, you do not do so, you do so in the multi-parliamentary courts of first instance. It is obvious why you are doing so because of these decisions, ladies and gentlemen, about one third of them, it is about a third of them, it is a dispute, and that is how you make it difficult for the citizen to stand up to the bank, and so you are protecting the banks in a tough and adjacent way. These are the bills you have to pay off to all these private schoolmasters, the bankers who helped you and do so in a way that is challenging. You have against you all the legal community, the plenary session of the presidents of the bar Associations, the lawyers in private, the legal schools. You have no institutional excuse to keep the pipeline, especially in the recognizance of powers of a multi-judicial court. Fellow Members of the majority, the next elections will be held with the system of simple analogy anyway and fifty of you will be out of Parliament. So after you have done your dirty work, to prevent citizens from having access to the banks, you will be out of Parliament in the hope of coming back and as you know, hope is dying lately. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] After you have played the role of useful idiot - the role, no misinterpretation - you will be charged with introducing obstacles - I will be in the short term, Mr President - in favour of banks. Today you are being given an opportunity to get rid of this chauffeur, this shamefulness in the eyes of the citizens of the legal world. You have the opportunity to vote for the amendment that we tabled together with the Change Movement, to restore logic and legitimacy in this way and to be able to look at your colleagues in the eyes, and the rest of your colleagues in the eyes because the institutional logic of this House is restored. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr. Xanthopoulou for the time. Mrs Tyridos from SYRIZA now has the floor and Mr Stylis follows us to close the procedure and we will proceed to the vote. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, allow me first of all to comment briefly on what has happened in the last two days in the football field. Unfortunately, we see a government that can't do the manipulations and we have a hidden State Secretary for Sport that unreliablely leads with its actions to an unprecedented ball in Greek football. So since it intervenes in the composition of the committee, and this creates the reaction of the committee's decisions, it continues with a comment against the decision which also causes reactions, it brings an amendment to the ratings that also goes on to change, and all this shows that on the government's side we have a hint and moves that cause doubts and suspicions. But, as our Government representative has said, despite the fact that the State Secretary is hiding, tomorrow you will all have the opportunity to vote on whether you agree with the methods and procedures of Mr.Austriakis and your government. So I'm going to the bill. It is true that over the last four years we have lived a time when the welfare state has been accused and enthusiastised, as it has been attempted by many to present itself as an attempt to equate the active citizens with the lazy citizens and as an effort that led to the suspension of the free market. This went and stems from the belief of neoliberalism that inequality is an acceptable situation and that everyone in this society is of different importance depending on the authority it holds, depending on its social position and on its ownership. So in the sense that every man should have self - knowledge of his position, be content, obey the fate of social life. That is why the Prime Minister, in this sense, said a while ago: 'I do not have any illusions about a society without inequality'. This, said Mr Mitsotakis, "is contrary to human nature and those who attempted it, have undermined democracy and individual rights itself." So in this social darnism the existence of the welfare programmes has no place, as it is already seen as the possibility of unworthy of living at the expense of those who are capable. The only tolerated redistribution for neoliberals is that made by market automation and not by state care. It is the sacred market, but it is usually for the few and the chosen ones. All of this is based on an idea of a supposedly individual freedom belonging to everyone itself and enabling everyone, supposedly, to have equal opportunities. But here there is a logical leap that ignores unjust social conditions. The acceptance of neutral freedom which does not take into account social inequalities leads to the benefit of the few and to the indifference of many. This is an idealism that counts people as a component of a mathematical equation and not as souls in a world of indifferent competition. In a modern society, however, freedom can be a universal demand, but unfortunately it is not as feasible for everyone. A man whose unjust social conditions did not favour him cannot move as freely as a favoured system. There, therefore, is our difference because we are not choosing to leave any man unprotected in the market jungle. With respect, therefore, to human life and human dignity, we have sought the whole time with a web of policies to lead to equality. We were aiming to increase economic growth away from the distortive and traditional models that led us to the economic crisis, to try to reduce unemployment, to work normality, to increase, for example, the minimum wage, to improve the situation of citizens and to protect the weak. It is a series of measures that you have been characterizing as charity for the past time, but for us it has been a social obligation. How many times did you not blame, for example, the former State Secretary for Labour, Mrs Fotou, even for the dolmats and for the stuffed? Slowly and slowly all that you then swamped, but which gave breath to a very large part of our population, are being demolished. Reduction of the benefit payments to your budget of 173 million. Reduction of family 139 million. Reduction of the rent subsidy of 53 million. One thing you tried to do, the allowance for the birth of 2000 euros. Even here in a positive step, however, we see that you are trying to leave the trace and imprint of your ideology. So a birth allowance that starts with discounts. In two instalments and not just as you said at the outset, not all legal and permanent residents in the country, which is contrary to Union law and which is not applicable anywhere else throughout the European Union and is assigned to the discretion of service actors. Despite its positive initial dimension, therefore, it is an allowance that has again orientation in a specific ideological direction. I would like to close by saying that you have made a lot of speeches about the benefit of mountainous and disadvantaged regions, which is indeed very important. And I would like to say that it is very positive at least that in this debate today, the Deputy Minister of Labour, Mrs Michaelidou, did not repeat what she said in an interview with the "ERT-1" in December 2019 that this allowance had been cut off by us and is the front of your allowances. He was untrue. Fortunately, it has not been repeated today in this debate. I would like to say that social policy is a policy that must be coherent, integrated and not fragmented. In this direction, we will vote for the birth grant, but you will have to complete other actions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u251	Mr Lambroulis has the floor for the statement he has asked us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u252	Mr President, we have previously set ourselves up for the amendment of the Ministry of Culture. The statement is simply about tomorrow's roll-call vote. We have said that the amendment is an unacceptable move - energy, which is a mockery and a hindrance. We call on the fan world to draw conclusions from the cohorts of the big businessmen who determine the fates of the groups and beyond that we denounce the process, we state that we will not participate in the roll-call vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u253	The Minister has the floor, then Mr. Stylus, and we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr President, I will be very brief. I just want to talk to you so that there won't be any truths left at the National Representation. The allowance for mountain and less-favoured areas has not been paid for two years. As of 2017, from the previous government, the allowance for mountain and disadvantaged areas has not been paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u255	We didn't cut it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u256	So it's not just that we here are legislating about his tax-free and inconsistent. We're paying it for the two years you haven't paid, and we're also legislating uncomplicated and tax-free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u257	Mr Stylis has the floor and we are completing the procedure to proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, all the policies that run government actions have value and application only if there is an active population to implement them. Without an active and dynamic population, everything that we discuss and we legislate at times is of very little importance. There can be no policy on national issues, economic development, sustainable insurance, a reliable health system innovative actions for education and research in a ageing country, in a country that faces the future under the threat of permanent demographic decline. Demographic data is unfortunately producing negative developments in all sectors. According to a European Commission report on population ageing, data for Greece are dramatic. Today the population is about 11 million. In 2060 it is planned that it will be reduced to 8.6 million. In combination with the further increase in life expectancy, our country is largely transformed into a society of old age. The rate of the child's population up to 14 years will decline from 14.6%, which was in 2013, to 12.9% in 2060, while the working solar group of the population from 15 to sixty-four years will decrease from 65% to 54% in the respective years. The proportion of the elderly will rise from 20.3% in 2013 to 33% in 2060. Of these, about half, i.e. 46%, will be over eighty years old. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a constant drop in birth rates in our country at levels below the European average. This coupled with the fact that more and more people decide to have a child at an older age means that the number of children in most families does not exceed two and thus the population of the country constantly shrinks. In addition, the decline in the birth rate is linked to the insurance system, since birth reduction and at the same time ageing of the population means that the workforce is reduced and pensioners are increased. The figures for Epirus do not differ from the general picture. According to ELSTAT, deaths are, unfortunately, far superior to births. For the year 2018 in Epirus, births amounted to two thousand two hundred twenty-two and deaths three thousand nine hundred seventy-seven. In other words, deaths are a thousand eight hundred more than births. In my hometown, in Arta, the births were three hundred eighty-five and the deaths of a thousand for 2018. We lost a large village, seven hundred people. Demographic is a major multifactorial problem. Policies to deal with are not the subject of a single ministry, a single government. Demographically, it's a matter of national survival. It requires consensus, national strategy and policies with a long horizon. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are taking a small step. The bill we are voting on introduces a birth allowance of EUR 2 000 for the first time. It also facilitates access to finance for the municipalities of the country, with the aim of operating more kindergartens to ensure the place for all the families in need. Changes are also taking place in the existing child and rental allowances, as are the social solidarity allowance, which is renamed to a minimum guaranteed income. Our aim is for the birth allowance to be horizontal and almost universal in 99% of the Greek population. For this reason, access to the allowance is conditional on permanent and legal residence in the country. As far as the criteria for residence are concerned, we have followed the best European practices. Immigrants need to be permanently resident in the country for twelve years to receive the child and rental allowance, and compulsory schooling for young children of the family is laid down as an additional criterion. School is what can give society better citizens. Everyone, if we go through there, we will become stronger, stronger and more socialised. The problem, however, does not end here. Other legislative interventions and initiatives will be followed by the relevant ministries. Our party, the New Democracy, had drafted a plan for these policies, which was approved seven months ago by the majority of the Greek people. A comprehensive plan that touches on all aspects of the problem: reducing the cost of having a child, supporting parents and especially women, institutional measures to prepare society and state in general, demographic developments and address modern challenges, measures to promote active ageing and intergenerational solidarity, to support large families, multitexes and third families, to reverse Brain Drain, to move away our young people abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, we need seriousness, a national strategy, to insist on our policy objectives over time. I propose the setting up of an institutional committee, an institution to monitor developments in demographics, the impact of the various policies on it, where we will resurrect and see what needs to change. This committee could help and be the roadmap in policies with cross-party consensus. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great battle, a national battle, which must not be lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u259	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, a number of colleagues have made their protagonists and dents. I've been informed by the services. So I think the process is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u260	It hurts head, it cuts head! That is not the case, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u261	Ms. Fotio, you have spoken twenty-three minutes and ten seconds and you have asked yourself in your protology to take the time of your denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u262	What about me? No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u263	The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is closed: 'A birth allowance and other provisions'. I would remind you that a request has been made by SYRIZA Members to hold a roll-call vote on the Ministerial Amendment number 148 and a special 12 of the draft law, which will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, 29 January 2020 at 13.00. We are entering the vote on the principle and on the other articles of the bill, and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill and twenty-nine articles. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you should make sure that you have voted for the principle and all the articles. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u264	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u265	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u266	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "A birth allowance and other provisions" was accepted by a majority in principle and on articles. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-28-S1-commons.u267	(a) only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, in accordance with the agenda distributed and (b) vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "A birth allowance and other provisions".
