ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We're entering SPECIFIC PROVISIONS OF THE BULLETURAL AUTHORITY Debates, at the request of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in accordance with Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure, on the subject of informing the House about government policy on the financial implications of the health crisis in the country. Today, at the request of the Prime Minister, who was sent on 24 April 2020 and notified to the Presidents of the opposition parliamentary groups immediately, as laid down in Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure. According to the terms of Article 142a, the announcement is made in person by the Prime Minister, and the duration of the communication may not exceed 10 minutes in protology, five minutes in denology and five minutes in tritology. The Presidents of the Opposition Parliamentary Groups may, in person, develop their views on the content of the communication for a maximum of five minutes each in the prototype and three minutes in the second. The Prime Minister shall, in accordance with paragraph 6 of Article 142, close the sitting, speaking last. However, for the better organisation of the debate, in accordance with the unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents of 28 April 2020, the speaking times of the Prime Minister and of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups are tripling. Therefore, they are formulated as follows: For the Prime Minister the terminology for thirty minutes, the dentology for fifteen minutes and the tritology for fifteen minutes and for the presidents of the opposition parliamentary groups, fifteen minutes of protology and nine minutes of dentistry. In view of the fact that the planned periods are already in three times, I would ask that they be respected as much as possible. Are we okay with this proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u2	I also wanted to tell you that the times in this procedure will be increased, in view of a change in the Rules of Procedure, because we obviously multiply them every time. So what is in place in the Rules of Procedure needs to be improved. The proposal was unanimously accepted. After that, the Prime Minister, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by expressing my sadness at the collapse of the Canadian helicopter in the Ionian last night. I will also contact my counterpart, Mr Trido, to convey to him, on behalf of the government, the Parliament and the Greek people our warmest condolences. Mr President, I am in this House again today, confessing to different circumstances and procedures, in order to support Parliament's constant functioning, regardless of the exceptional circumstances, such as the battle we continue with the pandemic. First of all, I have said that no critical need can question the democratic sensitivity and the government's obligation to be accountable to Parliament. In fact, I was commenting on the President a few days ago that the Great Britain Parliament was meeting, even under heavy bombings in London at the beginning of World War II, even though parliamentarians had to be transferred from room to room, so that they could not be targeted and, of course, the Parliamentary Republic and then endured. So in today's Greece, under the state, obviously, completely different threats, the parliament continues to operate. The appeal I am making, as we are coming back to parliamentary regularity procedures, is to stop this debate on the way Parliament has been operating in the last two months. On this occasion, I would like to state in the Minutes the statement made by Mr Tasoulos, the President of the Parliament, on how we operate during the health crisis. [[At this point, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I would like to remind you here that when the relevant alternatives were discussed in the Conference of Presidents, there was then a proposal for the closure of the House for thirty days. This proposal has not been accepted and it has not been accepted. The parliament has operated for the last two months, the government has used as a debtor and as provided for in the Constitution the tool of legislative acts and these acts have been ratified by the National Parliament in a record time, at least in relation to what has happened in the past. This practice will obviously be stopped after the latest act of legislation, which is now to be done and concerns provisions which must be provided for before the end of this month, and the House with the new rules, Mr President, which we have adopted and always following the clear commands of the experts for the necessary distances that we need to keep, will return to normal operation, in fact with an extremely rich legislative work, as I have already announced to the Ministerial Council, the government, will propose to the House a series of bills by the end of July, and the intention of the parliamentary majority is not to interrupt its work, not to go to summer sections this summer. I would therefore appeal that this chapter should be closed, that we all agree together with the rules with which we are going to move from now on and I hope that, soon, the speakers at the Step must not speak, in front of them, but rather annoying, plaiting. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last two months the government has made a very clear choice. It protected the health, life of the citizens, subjugating to that objective - the ultimate purpose - its economic design. Reinforced the National Health System, supported workers and businesses. In other words, we have spent - and that is why we will be discussing today - consciously a lot of resources so that, first of all, we can defend the supreme good, which is no more than the protection of the health of Greek citizens. We have achieved this objective, and that is why today we are ready - from Monday, at least - to proceed with the gradual relaxation of measures, in accordance with central government planning, as has been announced. Before entering the debate on economic issues, I would like to mention only two elements which demonstrate the success, which we have had in dealing with the pandemic, a success which the Greek Government does not credit for, as a whole, the Greek people are credited for, in total, in incomprehensible goodwill. On March 30th, we had reached the maximum number of hospitalized in COVID beds. The COVID incidents then reached the two hundred ninety-seven, but still having multiple COVID beds ready, available, which fortunately did not have to be exploited. Last night, this number was down to a hundred and eighteen, and today there are thousands of more beds available for COVID patients. We hope that they will never be needed. Also, on 4 April we reached the maximum number of intertwined incidents, in fact ninety-three. On that date we still had a significant number of beds available in the National Health System. In other words, we have never even reached the maximum number of treatment units covered. This figure has been reduced and today throughout the country we have forty of our intertwined fellow citizens. We hope that this figure will continue to fall. I would like to point out that, thanks to the excellent efforts of our doctors, our nurses and all those who support the work of the intensive workers, a significant proportion of the citizens who have suffered the intubation process have finally succeeded and escaped from the intensive and won this very great battle with COVID -19. So we, as a country, have spent a lot of money, but we have achieved our first health objective, which we have set ourselves. Other countries that have spent too much money have not been successful in the health treatment of the crisis. The consequences of this coronary attack will undoubtedly be dramatic but also multi-level, as it is a crisis that is unprecedented. No generation has lived like her for nearly a century. It is a crisis that at the same time puts at risk everything that constitutes the nature and substance of man, his health, his well-being and his coexistence with others, that is, his sociality, which is also the foundation of our culture. In fact, this threat concerns everyone, all countries, it makes no social segregation, and its very source remains invisible. This drama has many victims, but it does not have any responsibility to answer. In the face of such a phenomenon, our decision was immediate. The state must become the civil shield, the state guarantor of the new everyday life, and the government must become the guardian of social cohesion. A series of exceptional measures, which, until March, fantasy, were fortunately added to the patronage of the country: The discharge from the budgetary commitments of the past so that we can extend the State's spending and extend a protection net to all those affected by the crisis, the possibility for Greek banks to deposit Greek bonds as a credible asset to the European Bank, which makes their access to liquidity cheaper, the possibility of making more funds available from European funds to businesses, freelance professionals, self-employed people and, of course, the development and strengthening of the increased reserves of the public fund. All of this was done by plan and wisely, knowing that we have a war before us, which will last a long time. So, there always have to be backups and with a look always on the day of rebooting. Because success in tackling the health crisis will be to a certain extent also the 'passport' for the construction, which will follow. Ladies and gentlemen, the government announced its comprehensive plan to gradually remove the restrictions on society. I am at the disposal of the National Representation, since they also want the heads of the other parties and are placed on this issue, to discuss the health aspects of this project, and to answer any questions, good faiths may be raised for the specific options that we have made. Today, however, I have produced this debate in this House to discuss our directions primarily for the economy, because from now on, citizens' health and wellbeing will also be our shared compass of two objectives, which will be promoted at the same time for both values, which will be served at the same time. Until now, the Greek state and the Greek state have made measures amounting to 17.5 billion euros, which account for about 10% of GDP, a sum which, with the further utilization of European funds, will reach 24 billion in two directions, as two of our priorities: to strengthen the income and to support the liquidity of businesses. However, our main concern, which bridges these two priorities, has been and remains one: to protect employment. On the first front Greece has been, as far as I know, the only country that has banned redundancies and has chosen, not the wage-based support of households, but their equal and horizontal support, which of course relieves the weaker. Thus, almost all employees, professionals and self-employed are already premiumd at EUR 800. Their insurance contributions are fully covered by the State, the rents of the professional housing and the first housing for thousands of citizens are reduced by 40%, and the general extension of the payment of all kinds of public obligations also applies. As far as businesses are concerned, 10 billion euros are directed towards their liquidity. The tools are the repayable advance - the new instrument created by the Treasury - the guarantee mechanism for the capital's loans, the interest subsidy for all the information loans from small and medium-sized enterprises. I have already been informed by the Ministry of Development, and also by the banking sector, that fifteen thousand small and medium-sized enterprises have shown interest to be subject to the three-month interest subsidy and a thousand two-tier companies have already submitted an application to raise working capital totalling 200 million of the development bank's loans at 100% of the rate financed. Fortunately, there is a very positive response so far from the market to the tools launched by the Ministry of Development to support business liquidity. In May, the state guarantee programme of up to 80% for working capital loans, a total package of 7 billion to enterprises of each size, will be launched. I would like to point out here that in the first quarter of 2020 the rate of absorption of the NRP, despite the adverse conditions, was the best of all the corresponding quarters in the previous years of this programming period. The next step relates to the response of the NRV to the pandemic, starting both from the measures to support the lives of businesses, and their re-starting and including the inclusion of the five hundred movable units of EAFRD, so that we can perform more tests on the coronary. A total of more than 5 billion is expected to be spent, both directly and financially, on market support. In fact, from July 2019 until today, within nine months, the absorption of the ESRB in sectoral and regional programmes, without the Rural Development Fund, reached 34%. It's a record increase and it's translated to 1.7 billion in the real economy. A further breath, in addition to what I have already described, is the six-month suspension of payment of VAT and employers' contributions, and the extension of payment of instalments and certified debts. At the same time, the government, the General Accounting Office of the State, paid all its dues of up to EUR 30,000 to businesses and individuals to strengthen their fund. Finally, those undertakings which closed krone were also exempted from municipal charges. As it becomes clear, this is a coherent programme of many interventions, which together form an umbrella of protection above work, but also entrepreneurship. But they also serve the needs of the most vulnerable. Unemployment benefits have been extended, and the payment of emergency aid to sixty - six thousand long-term unemployed has begun. They also joined employment programmes forty-five thousand of our fellow citizens. Sixty-four thousand households, already receiving a minimum guaranteed income, will receive an additional EUR 100 for the first child and EUR 50 for the next child. Finally, there is the unavoidable funding of health. Thanks to this, ICU beds were made from five hundred sixty-five we received, a thousand fifteen in two months. Nearly five thousand recruits of new doctors and nurses were approved, three thousand seven hundred forty-eight have already joined the health system and the recruitment of three thousand workers in the extremely important programme "Help at home", while the ESS has acquired in time a record of modern equipment and materials adequacy. Here, let me thank and congratulate those who have made a titanic effort and contributed to this very great struggle, so that there are no protective material shortages in the last two months in our hospitals. I assure you that it was not an easy effort at all. There was essentially a war over which country could have first access to protective material, surgical masks, increased protection masks. We have won this war and practically, there have never been any deficiencies in our hospitals in the necessary protective equipment. I also want to thank all the private donors, who rushed to respond to our call for further support for the National Health System. Nearly sixty - four million have now become beds, intensive treatment units, respirators, drugs, masks, reagents for hundreds of thousands of tests. The Minister for Health will have the opportunity next week to present a detailed account of all the donations that have been made and to thank publicly all the donors, both large and small, who have supported the national effort at this extremely difficult time. In the face of all this, what is it, really, the criticism we have received and what are the realistic - I stress, realistic - proposals that have been put forward? By surviving - from the secure - SYRIZA asked to be spent when 29 billion, 36 billion, in an extremely ambitious plan, the details of which he has not yet revealed. I will look forward with interest to the placement of the Chief of Police today, if we can be more enlightened about this economic plan, and I will respond to my dentistry, after I have heard of his position. The picture I have, however, - I do not think I am alone in this - is that the opposition is proposing 'finance', without saying when and for whom. What you are doing is watering a plant, which is no longer there, because the "leaf tree" was permanently devastated in 2015. And no matter how much fertilizer you want to add to him, he's not gonna fly herd again. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Unfortunately, these easy wordings on forward aid deprive the country of valuable reserves in the event of a new outbreak of pandemic. They at the same time undermine our efforts to have continued access to low-interest markets. Various populisms about cheques, which have been heard in this Chamber only give rise to impressions and additional costs. I'll just get one example. At the start of the health crisis, we received a strong criticism from SYRIZA, who then called for the private clinics, which the government then simply held in active readiness. We had said first that if we need private sector assistance, we have all the legislative tools, so that we can get it straight away. Fortunately, however, this mobilisation of private therapies did not take place, because, as I mentioned before, we did not even get close to the maximum capacity of the National Health System. However, if we had followed your own recipe, we would have paid about 7 million in undue compensation. As far as the famous pillow is concerned, it is time to explain that in its rhetoric dimension at least it was created to make public opinion sleep on it. Because this is how the previous government baptized the public fund together with the 15.7 billion, but which must also be frozen as a pledge of credibility, which the country, unfortunately, has not had. The question, therefore, which is raised and to which I imagine the opposition parties will respond, is whether the people who ask us to spend more are actually asking us to touch this frozen stock too, and what this would mean for the next day and the possibility that our country might be reunited in a strict surveillance programme. Ladies and gentlemen, events are not called into question. We've been under a tough attack. The economy has suffered a great blow. It has, however, succeeded in funding both health and income support, employment and businesses. The information we have, from 'ERGANI' and from GEMI, fortunately, shows that the measures we have taken have allowed the market to withstand. At the same time, the country is now moving without the burden of excessive surpluses. The value of its bonds is recognised by the European Bank, which buys them for the first time after our country entered the new quantitative relaxation programme, which was set up specifically for the treatment of the krone, and the state continues today, at this difficult time, to lend itself on favourable terms from international markets. Of course, Greece is now on the first pages of the international press, as a model of effectiveness in dealing with the coronary. All this is a safe starting point for the phase that we are now going through. At the beginning of the pandemic priority was the life of the Greeks. Now, the aim is for our fellow citizens to be able to spread to the economy as well. Because there will be no development, without civilians who rebuild it, nor will there be public health, without state resources, which finance it. I will say this again: A successful response to the health crisis can become the foundation on which to build up our economy. It is a pity that some - few fortunately - regard this success as a success only of the government and find every opportunity to question it. That's all it looks like. The truth is that even when the epilogue of the health crisis begins to be written on it, the prelocation of a major economic crisis will be reflected in it. The triumph and the recession will be great, it will be global. It will not only concern Greece, such as the last major economic adventure that the country passed in 2015, when the world economy was moving at a rate of high growth, and we were caught in our homeland in three years of recession and incitement. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This time, the recession will concern everyone, which means that the next day's solutions should be symmetrical and comprehensive, and indeed, with a separate dynamic for the states that stood up and acted effectively in the previous trial. Among these states, Greece will be among them. Because this time, she's not alone, but instead, she's staring out of crisis. The country comes out of the pandemic with new weapons, which were forged on its wheel. During this time, the needs of the moment served and serve, at the same time, and the necessities of the future. And so, a crisis primarily related to health has turned into an accelerator of reforms throughout the state. The new digital public administration, the reconstruction of the ESS, the new structure of civil protection, may have always been government choices, teleworking, electronic education, the partnership of state and private individuals on social objectives may have been our scheduling commitments, but the battle against the cordon has made them urgent actions. They have shaped a positive acquis for today, but also a chapter on progress for tomorrow. But there is also a large intangible national gain, the individual acquisition, which has become a collective estate and is called confidence. It is trust in our forces, translated into a universal self-confidence, but also trust in the state, which itself, by its own conduct, is conscious discipline by the citizens. Thus, the forces that helped us in the difficult climb, we hope and hope that they will now lead us to a smooth transition. Ladies and gentlemen, I will continue to speak the language of the truth. I will not hide that the difficulties that await us may be exogenous, as I have described, but they will be serious. We must therefore share their burden fairly with the citizen, but also in the interests of the country. There is no strong Greece without strong Greeks, as there is no individual projection without collective prosperity. Today, I find it extremely interesting, encouraging, I would say, that almost all of our society, despite the great difficulties, despite the health crisis, despite the recognition by the citizens themselves that the economy is still waiting for difficult days, citizens believe that the country is moving in the right direction and that it is optimistic about the future. I believe that this is a national conquest, which has no partisan colour. She's being credited all over the country. We all believe her together. It will be a great conquest for the political system, as we return to normal controversy, not to allow ourselves to question this national unity. That's what our citizens expect! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This is what they expect from us and they will judge us all strictly, both the Government and the Opposition, major and minor. It doesn't mean we won't have a hard political confrontation. It does not mean that we will not have a substantial and substantiated dialogue on scientific data, when science cannot give completely clear answers. I'm looking for all this. The government seeks creative criticism. What we are not going to allow is to be involved in a new game of muddling, blame-sharing, targeting of persons and questioning - I will repeat this, questioning - people who have offered the common good without wearing any party hats, only from a mood to serve and help our country. It's all right, finally, to leave them behind. And if we consider that, on the occasion of the crisis, a cycle has essentially been closed and we have managed to make a great leap in the future, in our attitudes as a whole as a society, it will be a wish if we can prove it in this Chamber as well. But that, of course, does not just depend on the government. Our home country, apart from a country example of dealing with the pandemic, can also become a model of overcoming its consequences. The protection of income and the strengthening of employment, with growth resulting from new investments, remain our objectives. However, the pace of achieving these objectives must be even faster. The harder the crisis is being done, the more emphatic the regeneration that will follow it can be, as long as there is a plan and an appetite for work. The government has shown that it has both and will transform them into measures for workers and businesses, which will be unfolded in time - as has been done so far - by a method and consistently. So today I can announce: First, until the last negative impact of the pandemic is lifted, the State will continue to grant special-purpose compensation to those who remain in temporary suspension of their contract or the activities in which they are employed professionally remain closed for health reasons. The same will apply to benefits to the unemployed and the long-term unemployed. Secondly, those who return to work but under reduced working hours and working hours will see their earnings supported by the state. We will stand by all the workers, all the businesses that are called on to reoperate in an unprecedented environment. And for the first time, there will be a wide-ranging enhancement of the income and the workers in our country by the state, in addition to the support of the unemployed. This is necessary in order to support employment, especially in this crisis, which drastically reduces the demand for products and services. To this end, the new 'SURE' programme will be used primarily. This is its main purpose, to be able to provide additional support to businesses, entrepreneurs, who cannot fully exploit their workforce. For all this? Detailed communications will be made today at 17.00 this afternoon by the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Development and the Minister of Labour. Thirdly, during the test of the coronary, no Greek will see his home in danger. The protection of first residence will be extended for three months further by the end of July 2020. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This, despite the impasse manoeuvres of the previous government. I want to remind you that he had set a limit on the grace period in December 2019. But he had also created a protection scheme only for borrowers who had seen their loans blush until the end of 2018. I would like to remind you, of course, that in this first home protection scheme - which was the creation of the previous government, and we supported it and, if anything, facilitated it, by simplifying further the major bureaucratic obstacles that we inherited - only three thousand and eight applications have been submitted to the banks so far. Immediately after July, a new bridge programme will be launched, which will safely lead us to 2021 and will provide for state-aided borrowers. This programme, which will be specialised today by the Minister for Finance, will be three times - I repeat: three times! - Perimeter from the existing one. And besides supporting all the debtors, it will reward for the first time and consistent borrowers who have been financially affected by the coronary. Our aim is to prevent the creation of a new generation of red loans. Fourthly, all the financial instruments announced in advance, such as a repayable advance, are still available for business, interest subsidy on loans from small and medium-sized enterprises. In April, I would like to remind you that we supported the incomes of about two million workers and businesses. Almost eight hundred thousand private sector employees, five hundred thousand free professionals have received 800 euros. Almost fifty - six thousand scientists have received EUR 600 and ninety thousand companies have applied for a one billion advance. Fifthly, in the next few days we will also announce a new package of measures that will begin in May and will alleviate the companies that will see their turnover falling. We will also announce, within the next few weeks and an express plan to stimulate tourism. Our tourism is certain that this year will be a great blow. Our aim is to reduce this blow as much as possible and to prepare for it in full time. Ladies and gentlemen, these steps concern the next period and lead us to summer. At the same time, however, it is essential to ensure that the conditions for the major development leap are also guaranteed, which is still more necessary today. The key to this will be the many bills, which will be submitted to Parliament in the next three months. Their aim is to mobilise comparative advantages in the country and make it an even more attractive destination for investors outside and within borders. It is a mesh of legislative intervention, many of which were already adopted on yesterday's cabinet with great importance. Some are practical issues which deal with trade every day. I would like here to congratulate the Ministry of Development and all the control mechanisms for the fact that, until now, at least until the market closes, they have achieved excellent results in the fight against the illegal trade. We are now coming through legislation to make the control mechanism of the market, even more effective. We will bring to Parliament flagrant bills, which solve unfinished decades, such as the bill on spatial planning and land use. It is absolutely necessary, a crucial bill, so that we can finally allow anyone who is investing in this country to know what it can do, which can do so, on what terms, remove ambiguities and distortions of the past, which have been tempting the country for decades. Arrangements will be made for amending Law 4412 on procurement and public procurement so that we can unlock major projects which will give the necessary impetus to the economy next day. I only mentioned, for example, some of the bills, which we will discuss at the National Representation in the coming months. As I pointed out in my message to the citizens, the return of both social and economic life will be gradual and progressive. Our central, however, does not change. We are on the side of work and on the side of healthy entrepreneurship. The same clear, however, is the message that we are passing through support, from allowance to service. In other words, the state of protagonists of society is now becoming a part of it, mobilizes and mobilizes for overall progress. The burden of this reopening will be borne by all of us justly, state, businesses, shareholders, that is, society, equal and with a sense of law. The state will re-engine the machines of economic activity by supporting the liquidity of businesses. The financial tools we have, as I have told you, are already working and will be framed with others. The government will make good use of all the additional European tools at the appropriate time that will be available. I have specifically referred to the 'SURE' programme to support employment, but also to programmes for the financing of enterprises through the European Investment Bank. However, Europe's most decisive response to the coronary and, at least in the economic crisis, which accompanies the coronary will, in my opinion, be the so-called recovery fund. It's a new fund, which we're fighting for has specific features. Firstly, it must be equal to the crisis. Secondly, it should be financed by a common European loan. And, thirdly, it should operate on a major vehicle, not on loans. Our positions are at the table, they have already found many supporters, and I expect that soon we may have good news. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing with these comments. The pandemic still costs us a lot, but it makes us every day and possible, as long as we take advantage of all the skills that we recruited during it and draw all the lessons that it offers us. The pandemic must not and must not lead to bankrupt practices being restored. The pandemic must become the starting point for building a new productive model, without weaknesses, without the pathogens of the past. A model based on sectors and sectors that can attract investment, create new and well-paid jobs and provide the national economy with the dynamics needed to transform the crisis into a growth platform. I shall close, Mr President, with a referral back to Thucydides and to Pericles' words to Epitaph. I read: "All of our city - Athens - is a school for Greece and each of us could, without difficulty, respond to the most different forms of action with the greatest flexibility and grace". Two and a half thousand years later, the Greeks deserve the words of the great Athenian. We're making our home school, a model for the whole world. We respond to the most demanding forms of action and turn our state into a true state, with responsible citizens who work for collective prosperity. This is the challenge, this is the opportunity we have before us. I'm sure we won't leave her untapped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u4	The Chief of Staff Response and Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group Mr Alexis Tsipras is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that we have had an unprecedented crisis, which has to do with what is most valuable, with people's life and health, but also with today and tomorrow, I would say to all of us. Management of this crisis required seriousness, responsibility, but also a new hierarchy of priorities from all of us, from the representatives of the state, from the political forces and the parties, from journalists and the media, from the church and the hierarchs, from all of us, above all from the citizens themselves, from each and every one of us. The truth is that the citizens as well as those who gave and give the battle to the front line for the protection of human life were found, I would say, very much in front of the political forces in this collective effort. They prioritised human life, the life of our neighbor, public health. Others limited their individual freedoms and were found living closed for more than two months not in luxurious mansions with gardens, but in forty and fifty squares often with luxurious families and even more often with dramatically reduced income and dramatically increased insecurity for tomorrow. Others, with heroism and self-renunciation, did not stay inside, but risked their lives, so that we could be in a better situation today. And they were not richly rewarded, they were not Golden Boys, they were among those who until yesterday, Mr Mitsotakis, who now called them heroes, you considered them unnecessary civil servants, you condemned them under world conditions of work and pay, and you sometimes dictated, for example, the programs, their dismissal or the reduction of their wages because you thought they were being paid more than they offered. I have no problem admiting - barely - that your Government has done what is self-evident, as has most governments in Europe. This'self' is what I say in the positive sense of the term, because at least in our country at least the self-evident thing is inadequate. The only thing I do not think of as much as it is when it comes to serious omissions and attempts to communicate a dramatic situation. It was therefore the whole world that put human life as a priority because it gave room for solidarity, because it trusted the scientific community and not because you trusted him, as in a paternalistic and arrogant style, almost imperialist, you told us the day before. This whole world, the anonymous and afflicted years of austerity and monuments, did not give us and gave you no authorisation and no white cheque, especially for political games on its own backs. If he gave us something, it's time. Time has given us time to get rid of ideologies and strangles that face public space and public health as social and economic weight, time to correct failures and errors, time to substantially strengthen the national health system, time to invest in permanent recruitment to doctors and nurses, in intensive beds, in local primary care units, in a sufficient diagnostic test. Time has given us, in order to deal with the very likely second wave of pandemic, according to scientists. The crucial question is what you did to him this year, Mr Mitsotakis. Did you use him? No, I answer with the seriousness and responsibility of my moments and my place. That's why you have to answer, not your ideas, your opinions. We'll have time for this. Were you permanently hiring? You said, with an arrogant attitude - I would say - that you did within a few days what did not take place in the ESS decades. Just three hundred doctors hired them contractors. IF beds have increased, but little has been increased, because - yet today you have done this - you have just started adding the beds that have next to a respirator. These are not intensive treatment units, as you know. Everyone knows that intensive care units are not only equipment, but mainly personnel, intensive workers, trained nurses. You hired them? As far as I know, you haven't hired anyone. Instead of hiring - we had planned and signed a contract notice for four thousand permanent doctors and nurses - you frozen the procedure. Of course, not only did you freeze the process before the pandemic, you were here coming from this step forward and told us that I would make you rubbish now, because I would propose to you the cooperation of the public health system with private doctors through PPPs, which would make use of private hospitals, structures and infrastructures of the public health system. That was your idea. That was your ideology. There is no doubt about that. Here, let's say that. We when we hear you say about the national health system and what good the national health system is, think that when we were building the units of primary health care, the TOMY, you were coming here and saying that it is a waste of unnecessarily for the public budget and that there is no need for primary health care. When, for years of memorial arrangements, you, your party, Ministers of your resignation, and you yourself were told that we would not have the glory of the troika and Tomsen, but we did them because we believed them - that was your opinion, your neoliberal perception and ideology - you suddenly became defenders of the national health system. But the thing is not only that you did not hire permanent staff, it is that these auxiliary doctors, who end their contracts, let them go, those heroes who gave the battle to the frontline, without being permanent. Of course, he saw the light of publicity and the news that no overtime is paid for. I would not say, therefore, that you have used the time to actually support the health system. With regard to the question of tests, what have you done to prepare another way to get out of quarantine safely, to centralise the management and increase the reagents? What did you do? You just ignored the letters from university institutions that informed you that they have certified laboratories and can provide free of charge for their services. Why? Didn't the scientists tell you that if it were possible during the quarantine that tests were to be carried out only in symptomatic patients, was this not sufficient at any time in the next phase in the phase of the gradual lifting of the measures? The result of this uncertainty or feasibility - I do not know what is happening - is that our country should be in the last number of tests between all the countries of the European Union. The only country we pass is our neighbour Bulgaria. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The consequence of this results is that we go blindly, with our eyes tied, now, in this second phase, to go out of our homes and walk blindly. Ladies and gentlemen, listen, I do not want to be either unpleasant nor to be a specialist, but I am speaking, like all of us, these days with experts and scientists and I must, I feel the obligation to convey the feeling that prevails both in the scientific community and in the Greek society. This is a sense of insecurity, which the announcements you made the day before yesterday, instead of squeezing it down, have brought it down, in particular your almost threatening warning that, so far, we have achieved what we have achieved thanks to your magnanimity - the citizens - but from now on responsibility is individual, it belongs to everyone individually and exclusively to the citizens. The opposite message should have been given, that the citizens have done their duty, and in this respect they have exhausted their responsibility and have already been exhausted by the restrictive measures, and now it is the government's turn to do its own duty and to go with a plan, which will inspire confidence and not insecurity. I'll be a little more specific. What, really, is the explanation for your choice to open high school and high school from 18 May? I'm not talking about the third grade. What is the logic behind this decision? And what is the logic of thinking to still open up primary and kindergartens, a decision which you have fortunately withdrawn at the last minute, I imagine thanks to the reaction that you have felt, and not just of counter-population, but of society as a whole? Honestly, I find it very difficult to understand why in a matter that divides the scientific community you personally have to make a decision that involves risks and risks. Yesterday, I was reading a post, which was also in Greek media, the Italian newspaper 'LA REPUBLICA', where the proposal of the respective Italian Committee of Infectiouss to the Italian Government was published there. I give it to you, too. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] According to this report, the opening up of schools - says the report - will be due to 1/3 of the overall possible new cases that would have occurred if life were to return to normal. Repeat: 1/3. If we opened everything. That's what troubled me. Didn't he hurt you? Also, did Germany's first results for an increase in cases not trouble you? In fact, Germany is the second in the world ready to deal with the pandemic. So why, you take that risk, it's the question. I'll tell you why you take this unnecessary risk, since the schools open up to close in twenty days. Summer holidays are coming. What has led you to this decision? Is it that we change our strategy and adopt the herd's immunity theory, that is to say, that the population has a higher rate of immunity? I can't believe it. I don't dare believe that's it. Obviously, it's not. Most likely, this risk is due to your desire to refresh - and well - laurels winner - you are used to having this desire - and your haste to pretend that we have returned to normality, while you all know - and we all know - that normality will not exist in our lives for a long time yet. The people who listen to us, however, I believe that they want to have convincing answers to critical questions, not just fine words, hypocritical flattery and applause. The day before yesterday, you spoke for fifteen minutes, but instead of explaining the critical questions, you were content with the ID card that March is not May. Okay, we all know that March isn't May. But you didn't tell us why schools in March were health bombs, but in May they were safe for our children. You did not tell us why the use of masks from the population in March was useless up to and including dangerous, but in May it is imposed, and indeed, with a high fine for anyone who is not wearing it. All you have told us is that the responsibility lies with all the citizens. In any case, I do not think that this is a responsibility for leadership. I hope and hope that my concerns and fears will be excessive, but you do not say that, at the least, as if at a high dose of social, party and personal dissatisfaction. However, here I am obliged to make an important point, which arises from your measures and initiatives in the weeks of the pandemic. Mr Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen of the government, your attitude is deported by a more comprehensive strategy - unforgettable of course, but there is in every step of your mind - the strategy to transform this crisis into an opportunity, an opportunity - first to legislate without control, without accountability. For months now, you have been legislating by legislative acts, you have continued to deny parliamentary control and you are making use of the special and derogating parliamentary procedure, which we have all agreed that it will only concern measures on the coronary, but you are making use of the opportunity to pass service amendments, even, of course, to pass critical bills now, I hope, with Parliament, not to fail, but to function properly. Also, to go through regulations that favour large employers and private interests in the health sector, because you have referred critically to our proposal that there should be a general requirement and that the state, the government, should have the option to do whatever is necessary. But you were the ones who increased - you said what we said cost you - the cost of hospitalisation from EUR 800 to EUR 1,600 in one day. You've only given 30 million euros to test private individuals. You gave them to private people, and people didn't have the ability to run tests. But all celebrities, we found out they had a coronary. The people who went through with a flu or that they thought was a normal flu and stayed in their homes, didn't know if they had a coronary because they didn't do a test. That's the reality. It is an opportunity, therefore, to make arrangements that may benefit some interests, some of your great employers and some of your friends, such as the President of the Association of Greek Industrialists, Mr Fessa. Did you suddenly discover that La Poste is the first branch that has been irreversibly affected by the crisis? But, of course, you have next to you in Maximus his former director and his suggestions you apply with religious reverence. But it is an opportunity to establish an undemocratic, uncontrolled and dangerous arrogant totalitarian system of power, which is common secret now, that it has not just party references, but direct references to your face. This - I fear, Mr Mitsotakis - is a Greek version of totalitarianism, the Greek version of 'orbanism' that we see in Europe and we condemn. You'll tell me I'm wrong with you. So, if you say that I am wrong, what do you have in mind when you decide, in the midst of a pandemic, to give uncontrollably, without accountability, without transparency, 20 million euros to the media - what media? - by circumventing the procedures of "GENERAL" to a company that accidentally collaborated with your party in an election to give the money in the beam and uncontrollable manner. Does the press need backup? Of course the press needs backup! Come here to agree together on an amount which needs to be distributed in terms of transparency and criteria for workers who have, in terms of their sales, not uncontrollably, not in terms of opaque EUR 20 million in the middle of a pandemic! Where'd that money go? Where's that money? Are you going to tell us? Why do you abolish “GENERAL”? Why exclude the instruments that you are not fond of from this funding? So now, to let us know about the pandemic and give money to a site based in the United States of America, to let me know about the pandemic there?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u6	'DOCUMENTO'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u7	Yeah, okay, but that's not funny, because if that's not an attempt to buy out - even blackmail, I'd say - to reward the minds and punishment of the 'actuals', what is it? You are therefore taking advantage of pandemic as an opportunity to set up or strengthen relations between dependency and absolute control of citizens' information. If this is not a question of totalitarianism, then we do not understand the words. But if, in the building of information, you are pursuing a policy aimed at supporting or advertising, even depositing the government's work, a project with characteristics both hostile and so barbaric for the social majority that every democratic citizen should be concerned about is being developed on the basis of society. I would say that this is a deeply reactionary, unilateral and anti-popular restructuring of the labour market, firstly by the complete deregulation of labour relations, and secondly, by the cannibalisation of small and medium-sized enterprises, for the benefit of some other interests. On the basis of this plan - not on the basis of some wrong choices - you have turned hundreds of thousands of workers into subsidised unemployed, unsafe and troubled for tomorrow. You have legislated on rotating work, doing the 'half-wage job, half-wage'. And you left, of course, at the same time, uncontrollable redundancies. All this wasn't necessary. This wasn't all legal because of the pandemic. They were your choices, with a clear ideological and social figure. Nowhere in Europe - please tell me if you found it - there was not this model of dealing with the crisis, that is, subsidising contracts of employment and not maintaining contracts of employment. This is your inspiration and your patent, it's your plan.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u8	That's why it worked.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u9	Well, what worked and what didn't work, let the market say. Go out and talk to businessmen, small and medium-sized, go out and report and face the thousands of unemployed, thousands of people who are now living in insecurity. Leave that account. We'll see him. But he's your inspirational plan. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Today you have referred again to the proposals for counter-population. We have tabled an integrated proposal, which at its core was the forward and horizontal support for work, small and medium-sized enterprises, 'invisible' workers, scientists, professionals, artists and all those social groups you have left in their luck. We insisted and insisted on a forward and brave intervention in order to keep supply and demand alive. And you come here today and you talk about 'leaf trees'. Indeed, Mr Mitsotakis, at the summit - which you have held by teleconferencing - when all the leaders of the South demand that money be given to the market, do what Lagard itself has said in the European Central Bank, but also in the Economic Department of the Commission, on the need to market 1.5 trillion euros, do you come out and say that there are no "leaf trees"? Is that your attitude? Are the Southern demands that liquidity be given to the market, that money fall to keep the demand and supply alive, are you talking about ‘leaf trees’? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I would like to mention to you the following: Germany is making interventions over 50% of GDP, France over 25% of GDP, Italy 40% of GDP and you here 3.5% of GDP. Because it's so! With an ideoleptic perseverance you ignore the proposals made by almost all the social actors. We believe that this is a disastrous tactic. And it is a tactic that can have in the back of the mind the perception of transferring the theory of herd immunity to the economy, that is not to support small and medium-sized enterprises and work, to let anyone who has endured to survive and perhaps come back later to support those who have survived. You referred to your plan and said that it is a 29 billion, 36 billion, 36 billion, project. You didn't even bother to study it to make a substantial confrontation. In fact, you have referred to the sacrifices of the Greek people, which are the liquidity pillow that, for the first time in time, while I monitor the modern political history of the country, brings a government to the next day, leaving a strong hold and a strong security against a possible crisis. The usual in this country was to receive either chaos or burnt land or empty funds, as we received in 2015 that we did not have to pay for pensions. You, therefore, had EUR 36 billion, almost EUR 37 billion, of which, as you quite rightly said, the EUR 16.7 billion, was locked in to repay the country's next debt obligations. Therefore, 20 billion euros from the labors and sacrifices of the Greek people as a safety pillow for a difficult moment, as a fuel to keep the Greek economy moving. If added to this and the remaining liquidity, which may be available right now, you are approaching almost EUR 40 billion. I will tell you what we have proposed, precisely because this is an advantage for the country, because the neighbouring countries, the heavily indebted countries, not as much as Greece, but countries with a very high debt, such as Italy, such as Portugal, as Spain, do not have that possibility. In order to meet the immediate needs, they must lend and therefore increase their debt immediately and not only increase - which will indirectly increase, as is ours - from GDP declining. That's what we told you. Of these some 40 billion liquidity ahead of us with a plan to spend 14 billion on the budget. No suspensions of payments, but budget expenditure. About 7 billion to keep the wages, as we said at 100%. You could say, brother, let's be at 70 percent, 80 percent. What are you doing? Half a wage, half a job. You give EUR 7 billion to keep wages in March and May. We said that 3 billion euros should be non-refundable aid to enterprises and 1.5 billion should be granted as a social solidarity allowance, because you only give one part of the long-term unemployed. There are thousands of people who are invisible right now, no one sees them and who don't know how the next day will dawn. That logic has exactly the idea that when you're in a difficult situation, but you have stock to burn, you don't waste it. Aimed to strengthen demand, strengthen supply, so the next day will find us stronger. You ignore our proposal. And what are you doing? You're wasting your time spending the pillow. You spend it on ruthless expenses, but even September will arrive and we will be with thousands of knuckles, we will be with thousands of unemployed, we will be with a recession that we have never seen again in 2008, and we will not have a pillow. This will be your work. Mr Stournaras came out the other day...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u10	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u11	You have Chief. He'll answer later. We're talking. You don't want there to be a rival? In the end we will not talk at all and we will not even speak of our opinion. Mr Stournaras comes out the day before yesterday and says: 'Don't worry, 4% will be the recession', when the International Monetary Fund itself talks about a recession of over 10%, when the Commission itself says that the recession in the South will be 10%, but everyone says that Greece will be a champion in the recession, because tourism is 20% of our GDP. This is the negative juncture we live on. If, Mr Mitsotakis, the recession is 4%, I give you that 4%. But, whatever the shorter writes, it will have your signature and your seal, it will be the remission of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, because of his inertia, his steam, and his inability to predict exactly what the Greek economy needs. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But, all right, you are rather used to the recession, because you had 25% cumulative from 2010 to 2014 and another 15% now, you will reach self-resistance rates, but in the recession and not in real percentages! Look, ladies and gentlemen, we consider this crisis to be an opportunity, but as an opportunity to change the bad texts, as an opportunity to strengthen the real needs of society, as an opportunity to support our fellow people, as an opportunity to inspire all of us from the value of solidarity and not an opportunity to deepen inequality. Of course - and I left this last, Mr Mitsotakis - not as an opportunity for scandalous services, to disperse public money into the pandemic. Because in the last few years what is seen in the light of publicity is, unfortunately, so much that no one can even glean them. Fortunately, I would say that the veil of silence that you are trying to secure in various media is not capable of covering them. We do not know where to start on this matter. I can only refer to the great scandal of the days, which was the subject of training centres. This is not only a scandal because people obviously wanted to serve five or six businessmen who would do all the work and take the 35 million lion share, but the problem is at the core of practice. You humiliated thousands of scientists, free professionals, all those who had electionally made them a flag, the middle class is them, in a degrading process to get a six hundred through a fake - teletraining by learning how to open their computer and how to make a file for lawyers, while at the same time you could give this money directly. And you knew very well that you could give it directly! Because there is now - you all know it - the possibility of reorientating the ESRB programmes and you were very well aware that this money could be given directly. Didn't you know? I went out and you didn't come to answer the question I asked you, of course you choose the territory of your conflict - your right, but the people are judging - but since you're here today and we're here, give me an answer. Because Mr Gerapitris, who came to me as 'instead of it', said that this document I tabled yesterday - which proved that you knew from the European Commission that you could give this money directly to the beneficiaries and not through false programmes - was a document before your activities. Today I would like to present to Commissioner Ferrara, Mr Brutsi, the letter of 18 March, which informed him that the programme could be carried out normally, not through training, but directly to the beneficiaries. But he chose something else. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The question I asked Mr Brutsi was whether he did so alone or in cooperation with you and has not answered. This silence, in my view, is a suspicious silence that exposes you. In any case, it is very simple for you. Say here today: Did you know about this or have you not? Anyway, if you hadn't done it all on his own, why do you keep him in position? Why did Mr Brutsis, after this humiliating process, in which he submitted hundreds of thousands of scientists and after the revelations, which obviously have a scandal smell, appear in his place? What's the message you're giving the other ministers? 'All right, there's nothing wrong with doing any work.' You must answer today because this shadow, while you keep it, will follow you. Of course, as I was saying, there are other issues. Nobody knows where to start, where to stand, where to stop. There are direct assignments from the Ministry of Education from the Ministry of Migration Policy. There are - within introductory - 'friendly' companies that suddenly changed their objects and started taking hundreds of thousands of euros for prison reliefs, and had another object three days ago. There's a mismanagement. There are business that blows up like mushrooms and three days later they get commissions. There's all this. But listen to something. Society is not blind and society sees these things and has not been given to you, it has not been given by anyone - certainly not by us - a white check. Instead of assessing as positive the attitude of all the anti-population parties, which we put back to address the pandemic, we have put human life as a priority, we have not made flags of mistakes and omissions, you come here and you appear as the one who has no reason to answer, to speak, to give answers. For us - and I close with this - the crisis is indeed an opportunity, but it is an opportunity not to try to create profits and damages in a confrontation of political purposes, not for personal and micro-group pursuits, not like you, who live the myth of the soldier or Moses, as a friendly instrument for you, nor is it, of course, an opportunity for 'jobs' to shrink democracy, accountability, parliamentary procedure. But it is a first chance - first of all - to stand before every citizen who is tested, to every family who fears the future and to face the pandemic test together, not to leave anyone alone. It is an opportunity to change priorities and practices, to change perceptions, to bring the social majority to the forefront. It is an opportunity to turn our backs on the policy of depreciation of public space, the logic of market laws, even in sensitive areas, such as health, education, the environment. It is an opportunity to strengthen the solidarity and co-existence links between the social groups. Finally, it is an opportunity to promote and implement a new social contract. Because this crisis teaches us that we need a new social contract in Europe and Greece to go forward, a social contract that in its preamble will write the measures out of the new crisis, based on the fair growth and interests of the many, and on capital, it will describe the country's course towards a fair, democratic tomorrow, with man and his needs at the centre. That is precisely why we will do at least what goes through our hand to create the conditions for this new social contract to make the programming commitment of a progressive government that needs the place, based on a broad democratic and progressive coexistence and which will take the ship out of the rocks again, from troubled waters of recession and social injustice that you once again have, the conservative component, led with your policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u12	Mrs Fotini Gennamata, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have passed the first wave of the coronary test, and we have escaped the great evil, as Mr Chiodra says. We have all been disciplined in the difficults to protect both our health and public health. We have all learned to care more in Greece and this is important and let us keep it. A month and a half now, the Greeks and Greeks prove that, yes, when we are united, we can do it, we know how to set great national targets. We've proved it in the past. We followed the expert advice and supported the "we wait at home". At this point I feel the need to say a good one and thank all the fighters on the front line, all those who have not stopped working self-sacrificingly, so that everyone else can remain safely in our homes. Ladies and gentlemen, now is the time to slowly regain the thread of our lives from where we left it, only that we now have to deal with the coronary and that makes a great difference. Even greater is the government's responsibility in this second phase, because we need to ensure those conditions that keep us safe. As the Prime Minister said, the second phase is based on a purely government plan. Its implementation is, of course, dependent on individual responsibility, but mainly on the effectiveness of the state mechanism. There is the key, as is the scientific documentation of each step. I will repeat what I said a few days ago, that the government's bureaucracy is not, in practice, abolished by Mr Chiodra and the Scientific Committee. I will not dwell on why they thought a few months ago that children have a great deal of contagiousity or why they were telling us that they don't need masks - they may have done bad - but they are now being imposed. I understand that we are going a little further with this unprecedented pandemic: seeing and doing and doing nothing is known in advance. I'll accept that. But without an operational implementation plan, without - finally! - more tests, for which we have been shouting for too long and without mobile primary groups - we have been recommending a specific proposal that has been accepted for months, but still has not been implemented - the lifting of measures is a dangerous exercise. I think it is incomprehensible to change the strategy now, in practice, and adopt the logic of the Johnson type about 'the herd'. We have all agreed from the outset that this is not the national strategy that we are pursuing. Apart from what is said, there is no doubt that it is a risk that the schools will be opened up. Besides, your government officials say it's actually an experiment. At least make sure that the money is given to the school committees, which you carried the burden to ensure all the protective means necessary for the health of both children and teachers and workers in schools. I'm coming to the masks. At the moment, Prime Minister, who are becoming compulsory, there must be strict discretion, because otherwise we will have a shameful gain. There's already at this time when we're talking black market. In addition, at least public services, public spaces and at least supermarkets should be provided free of charge. You have to force them to do this for their clients. At least! Do you know how big the burden is for a four-member family? Most masks are disposable, except those that are washed. How will a family now have a serious reduction in its incomes, its incomes, on a monthly basis? It is therefore an obligation for the state to contribute to this issue. Nothing will be like yesterday in the economy and employment. We have a great deal on our minds and, unfortunately, it is not the first for the country and the people. It's another lift. And we don't start well. We do not start at all when you come here today and ask for the change, speaking of recession and unemployment at the beginning of 2010. When will you finally assume your responsibilities, your responsibilities? Thirty-five billion deficit, you handed over. If you want to talk about trust, you know that trust is built on sincerity and truth. So take responsibility for what the country has lived for, finally ask for an apology from the Greek people, and not to attempt at this time, at the crucial time that all of us have set back, to lay the blame once more! I understand that it is much easier for you to oppose populism, but we will not allow you to do so. So you have an obligation to speak the language of the truth. You owe this apology! The bell rang in our country, Mr. Mitsotakis. See the elements of the ‘ERGAN’ system. In March we had forty-two thousand more redundancies than recruitment in half a month of crisis. Tourism, small and medium-sized ones, farmers are at great risk. Our aim in the Change Movement is to keep society up and alive. If the country's production base is now collapsed, the cost of the crisis will be many and the recovery in the next period will be even more difficult. So we can't build on ruins. At least, that's our position of the Change Movement. We are fighting for two months with responsibility and with very specific proposals. You said yourself before, that we are now lending with the help of the European Central Bank. So, now is the time to make use of this the possibility, so as not to collapse the production base. And if need be, we should put a hand in this famous pillow that Mr. Tsipras did not hand over. The part of the pillow that we can use is what came from the overtaxation of Greek citizens. It's the Greek people's money. And if we have to keep the economy up now, now is the time to make use of them, which we have the backs of the European Central Bank. When are we going to do this? When we don't have them? But then we are surely walking in a new memorandum and you will again have the responsibility! So we need to intervene now. We propose an interim programme to strengthen our defence. Yeah, it's a defensive policy, the intermediate program. But it is absolutely essential. So we will then be able to proceed with the counter-attack with an integrated economic recovery plan, taking stock of the Europeans' final decisions, which I shall then speak about. We are talking about a new change programme. I would therefore like to make a few points about the government's choices, which form an unfavourable reality. Firstly, the Prime Minister and the Government have so far not presented a comprehensive plan either for now or for the aftermath. They shall proceed to fragmentary and inadequate measures, with vague and appropriate announcements. - now they are talking about a package of 24 billion - a sum of measures, deferrals of payments, loans that will be repaid, as if at some point we press a button and everything will start to work normally, and all the companies, which are closed all this time, will be able to respond by magic to everything that they cannot do in these two months. These measures obviously serve - in most cases - the few and the strong. I'll come back to this. What do we see around us? What predominates is the communication exploitation of the pandemic, the one-saleing of information and, of course, the enchanting of the government with public money. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister is a commitment to communication and customer logic. A state of party, a state of the right, is being set up within the coronary crisis, obviously with its own guidance. If that's not the case, answer us. Opacity lasts well. The voucher scandal has Mr Mitsotakis in charge first. We've brought this up. I'm not going to go into these details now. Now we're burning to see what's going to happen. I understand that SYRIZA, who is so awkward and has had no proposal all this time, has nothing else to do: what the Change Movement shows, takes them and makes them a full-fledged one. Let's do what he wants. Everywhere millions of euros have been awarded by opaque procedures and a laundry, legislative acts. Advertising programmes totalling EUR 20 million are awarded to private companies. Very serious problems have arisen in the recruitment procedures of the ERC. Moreover, the issues of democracy arise. The institutions must finally come out of the quarantine. The normal functioning of this House, social dialogue, pluralism in information are essential components of our democracy and I would say a precondition for restoring social and economic life. It is incomprehensible that important bills should come without debated in detail and that all the stakeholders be given the opportunity to express themselves. There are no fast track procedures in Parliament anymore. That's it! Two. Workers and the unemployed are actually left to the margin. Not only do they make mistakes and omissions in the field of work. Don't be ridiculous. There's a very specific plan here. And the responsibility rests with you again, Prime Minister. The Ministry of Labour has already been exposed to teletraining - a "monkey" - incapable of planning measures to prevent the risk of mass unemployment. The Treasury under our pressure and the resonance of our proposal has leaked from what I have heard this afternoon - we will be told more - a work subsidy plan. A plan, however, linked to the expansion of parttime work, with adverse changes in the terms and conditions of workers' contracts. You understand very well what that means. Thirdly, the banks continue their violin. They apply the classic banking criteria they deprive, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises in need, liquidity and loans. Money is being channelled back to the having. Relaunching the small and medium-sized enterprises with these allocations and banking criteria is not going to happen. The government opens the chambers of the courts, relating to auctions and seizures. Only the banks won one more time. Of course, the citizens are still unprotected by the bank's excessive charges, while everyone is heading for electronic transactions. Fourth. Small and medium-sized enterprises are being mocked. They're left to their luck. Small and medium-sized business together with the self-employed are over seven hundred thousand. The two hundred and fifty thousand both employers and six hundred thousand workers are employed. It's the backbone of the real economy. In the measures announced for this category, EUR 500 million has been secured, while for large companies employing over 50 people EUR 7 billion. The euro. The distribution is not just heterogeneous. She's challengingly unfair. The Government of New Democracy leads them to extinction. And that is a decision that finds us completely opposed. You do not have the right, Mr Mitsotakis, of course, to lead to a dramatic shrinkage in the middle class. Five. Farmers have been abandoned in their luck. In government measures farmers remain the poor relatives. In fact, at the time when farmers were seeing their prices collapsed on amnophilics, consumers bought them three times above the price the producer was getting. What are you talking about? There was incredible speculation. Ladies and gentlemen, in the new phase we are going through, the war has two fronts: health and the economy. That is why I am tabling some of the proposals in our mid-term programme today. They are proposals for immediate implementation, in particular, targeted and realistic. Mr President, I ask for your understanding of the time. All the previous speakers spoke at least twice as much as you had given them. I'm starting with the sanitary front and the necessary support of the ERC. I like that. Now everyone is "scathed in the aprons" of the ESS. Everyone wants to say that something amazing was done in this area, which was never able to do the PASOK, which also established it and solidated it and rescued it from the debts with which it was received in 2009. I am going to go back to dentistry because I don't have time to talk about it. It turned out to be the National Health System the most important weapon we had in our hands in this battle. We are absolutely proud of this because it has indelible the seal of PASOK, of our extradition, no matter what you do, no matter what you're saying now. You will not rewrite the story, perfect and complete. Immediately we need more tests. We were shouting for lab requisitions and all to join in a central planning of the state. After you managed to get these most reagents, why haven't you so far done it? We'd have more evidence to move on safely. Now Mr. Chiodras is asking for it. Now that Mr Chiodras asks, I hope you will listen to him and be more effective for everyone's sake. So, finally, the mobile workshops of the primary care network with house visits. Essential upgrading of the National Health System and the strengthening of hospitals - not just in words - and reintroducing them to full operation. Soon we'll start having other losses than patients who can't go to hospitals. Chronic illnesses, but with serious dangers to their lives. Organizing centres for off-seasons virus - we have called it since the beginning of the crisis - and supporting 'Help at home'. To be rationally managed by donations. I am pleased to hear that the Minister of Health will inform us in the next few days. Until now, we don't have a picture. I believe that an independent authority should handle donations, with absolute accountability in the House through the Committee on Social Affairs. To become a special plan for monitoring and protecting vulnerable groups in particular in vulnerable structures. We were yelling and we didn't hear. We would have avoided both the problems in Larissa and Kranidi and, of course, the deaths in private clinics. Take action on the islands in the summer and hire me if necessary. We don't have an uptake picture. Where'd all those people hired to the National Health System go? I hope the Minister will let us know this afternoon. Of course, as a practical recognition of their offer to introduce sanitaries into heavy and unhealthy. These are urgent emergency measures. Of course there is, more than ever, a need to regenerate the National Health System. I don't have time to talk about this. I hope in dentistry something more I can say. So I come to the front of the economy. I would like to put forward six specific proposals. First, a work subsidy programme. The program we have proposed is processed, bold, costly. It concerns the maintenance of jobs for a million workers in firms affected. The state, in a very simple and transparent way - has all the elements of "ERGANE" - covers 40% of the wages of workers for six months, but on two conditions, however, very important. It's not in the finest letters to override. The first condition is the prohibition of redundancies and the second condition is the non-favourable conversion of workers' contracts. From what the Prime Minister told us, I understand that you will be subsidising the wages of the workers that you recognize in advance and you legalize that they will enter part-time while they were not before. So you establish the elastic forms of work and when your subsidy is done, the workers will be faced with a new reality that will have the seal of your Government, your signature and your approval and not just of employers. I wonder what criteria. How? Where? Everybody? That's not just a service. It's a gift. The measure we are proposing is completely costly. Its amount is 2 billion and can be covered by 1.5 billion from the 'SURE', to which you have also referred. We know that there are 600 million unreservedly in the European Social Fund. Secondly, support for the unemployed. No unemployed person registered with the OAU without unemployment benefit for six months. Of course, subsidized training programmes, seriously this time, qualitatively and transparently. Thirdly, support for small and medium-sized enterprises. We highlight their crucial role in growth and employment in our country. Of course, we all know that they are severely affected by restrictive measures. No advance payment can be requested on the basis of revenues from 2019 when it will be dramatically reduced for this year. The government's advance is just not enough. In particular, for this year, the advance payment of tax for those affected by the crisis must be zero for the remaining 50%. The tax corresponding to any actual revenue will be paid after liquidation in instalments. At the same time, the reduction of tax rates from 24% to 20% within 2020 and a sustainable solution to the issue of cheques. I've been talking to all of us, small and medium-sized, farmers. The question of cheques is very important. Responsibility must remain with the issuer by granting the loan banks, as much as it needs to pay. Otherwise the market will collapse and especially the food chain, which is at risk. Fourthly, protection of the first home of weaker borrowers from auctions. Personally I find it incomprehensible that the funds start to fly out of their homes. I think it's completely inhuman. I have heard your suggestions. After the very heavy pressure we have exerted on this matter, you come to make a hole in the water. You are extending to this failed system that you voted for. You described yourself a moment ago that she was a loser. In fact, the evidence you presented is not accurate, because a few days ago Mr Stavros said that out of the three thousand hundred and ninety-eight cases that were adopted, arrangements were made for only eight hundred thirty. Good, good! Remain another three months of this failure to regulate another eight hundred thirty, while the problem is huge. We are not saying that the poor payers should be covered, but give a serious extension to the protection of the first home, as the PASOK had done, and come here to the House to discuss in the intergroup, which I have asked you and have accepted all the parties - apart from New Democracy - a definitive, sustainable and fair solution to this problem, because you know that red loans will be launched in the next period. As for red loans, what to say. Since 2016 we have recommended Bad Bank and then they fell to eat me by saying "the militant genitalist, what is it he says?" A few days ago, the Governor of the Bank of Greece said it over four years ago. Only all these four years have been lost, both responsible for SYRIZA and the New Democracy. Fifthly, special programmes for farmers. I spoke before about the value of the primary sector, or rather, to say it better, of the agri-food sector, because it is also in processing. We therefore propose an immediate advance of 50% of the aid in May, with the activation of the De minimis regulation for farmers, fishermen, fish farmers, farmers, who are brutally affected. Also, a subsidy for wages and wages to work unemployed registered to the OAS as land workers. Sixth, support programme for tourism. The pandemic crisis particularly affects tourism, with, as you well know, the entire Greek economy and indeed, over time. A special plan is needed to make use of the brand of Greece and increase its competitiveness. First of all, we propose in this specific plan that the following should be included: measures to enhance the competitiveness of tourist enterprises, such as a zero tax advance for 2020 and a suspension of debt payments and a reduction in VAT for two years in the focus and accommodation of 6% and other tourist services at 13%. I would remind you that the catering shops up to 1 June, according to your plan, remain closed and are being destroyed. Repeal for two years of the end of the night and of the increased VAT on the Aegean islands. To stimulate liquidity for re-launching with state guarantees and loans, and of course, targeted promotion campaign in cooperation with the EOT and the relevant tourism actors. This work has already begun and it's started well. They need backup. Also, a large social tourism programme with incentives to move families, at least for one year. Greece is a safe country and must remain, so we must claim a protocol and certificates from the European Union for controlled health movements, otherwise tourism will not freeze for this year. Given that the vast majority of half the millions of seasonal workers, mainly tourism, but also foodism, will not be able to obtain the conditions for unemployment benefit in 2020, there must be two changes: more flexible conditions and an extension of grant time from the unemployment fund. Ladies and gentlemen, I have repeatedly spoken about a change of course, which is also needed for Greece, but also for Europe. With this Europe we are not going forward and the future of the Union is no longer judged, let everyone understand it. It is time for a new European treaty and our aim is to move on to a European federation. In Europe, we are not commended, we are demanding. It needs new money, innovative tools, non-conventional solutions for the non-conventional crisis that we live in and is not the responsibility of either of us. Therefore, a EUR 1.5 trillion programme for all of Europe, in short a Marshall European project. Transfers and not loans to the Member States, which mean new Memorandums and suspension of the Stability Pact for three years. Mr. Mitsotakis, come out in front of this race in Europe, not behind the backs of Macron or Pedro Sanchez. We are giving the battle through the Socialist Party every day, a battle that is not easy, because until some time ago we have had very great contradictions between the socialists of the North and the South, but for the sake of the pressures of the South, serious steps have been taken. Do it in the People's Party too, you have a responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, every great trial, every crisis counts our boot, the real one and not the one that propaganda creates as a shadow. From the first moment on, we have chosen our own path, the path of the progressive opposition that the country needs, which supports what is positive, which proposes what must be done and not done, which criticises injustices and failures, which protects the interests of the non-preferential, the workers, the weak, because they must not pay the marble and this crisis. That's our DNA, our DNA, our paradigm DNA. Returning to everyday life brings with it great problems and major changes. How to identify ourselves in a changing world, it is obvious that everyone will do it with their own stigma, because now is the time to return politics. Not all are colourless and isotopic. We are experiencing a violent technological transformation, which obviously has benefits, but it also has costs. It raises inequalities even within developed states, and that is the great risk we need to see and heal quickly. But that's our choice. Your choice, obviously, is in the long run to leave these inequality, because it is none of your business. For conservatives the answer seems to be the same: Return to the regularity of austerity and market worship. People are embarrassed, but it is certain that, in desperation, they will cultivate isolationism and nationalism. For us Socialists, it is clear that our principles and values are being vindicated and that we all see it, and that is why it is clear that all this time, as well as the next, we will live through many imitations. Many in the words will try to represent the socialists and the social democrats, but let the Greek people be careful, because bad imitations have paid them dearly, to heed for their future, because there are many who want to hide behind words socially and in practice with their policies to lead things to the strengthening once again of the market and of the powerful at the expense of some more weak ones. There is no doubt that everyone is now asking for a more state. His role and importance in protecting the citizen have been recognised, because it has proved to be a fact that the markets themselves cannot do that. The private sector, which had not felt the need to support the state, today in the talks we have clearly said that 'yes, we do admit that we cannot ultimately solve all the problems on our own'. They're colossal, I don't know if next year they'll be open. So it is no longer the state, which is demonised for all suffering, but what guides citizens' steps in this very difficult balance that they have to cross into an uncertain future. "Uncertain," said George Gennimatas, "is the future for those who do not look forward." We look forward to and work for this future. It returns, therefore, a social democracy that was smart, flexible, human, determined to break the ties to neoliberalism, because it turned out that all the previous time that it did so simply strengthened him and fueled him with ideas and proposals that were finally fruitful of the parties of the right and of the centre right. The aim today of the Social Democrats is at last to focus on the great "l want" of people, the life of citizens, health, education, work, the environment with a strong seal of democracy, justice and solidarity. You can be sure, then, that the part of the change, which has made all the major reforms in this place, on which we are relying today, will come out just and much stronger. We will take the lead again because time is ahead, so that nobody stays behind and we write together the new social contract with the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u14	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the procedure is followed by the former colleague, Mr Athanasios Kontaxis, from Pramanton Ioannina. I assume, Mr. Contaxis, that this is unprecedented. You didn't live in Transmigration, with so few and such precautions, but we'll deal with it. We welcome you. Mr. Koutsoubas is called in Stepma, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, the JRC has been facing this unprecedented health crisis with a high sense of responsibility. We have adapted our action so that we can contribute to the protection of public health. The same did, of course, for all the Greek people, adjust their lives to protect and protect themselves, observe the disciplined and determined instructions of specialists. What was won so far was, first of all, won at all his own sacrifices. At the same time, however, we said that individual responsibility must be based on an integrated state health protection plan, on the protection of the rights of all workers, because if the primary basic state responsibility does not stand up to the great requirements of the period, if - much more so - the time gained so far for the shielding of the public health system, which - as you yourself have admitted to - is at a very bad level, the situation can be uncontrolled, especially in view of a possible new wave of pandemic in the coming period and especially since the autumn, as the experts predict. We are talking about the public health sector which all of you, and those of the New Democracy, the PASOK before you and those of SYRIZA, have left intact on the brink of collapse, with the sanitary to give this battle with great sacrifice. We do not jeopardise, but we ask you: can you rule out that the increased victims in a number, which were in other states, in relation to the overall population - this tragic result - will exist in Greece as well, just over a longer period of time? None of you can rule it out, obviously. This is why the strengthening of the Public Health System is urgently taking place with mass recruitment now of permanent doctors, nurses, other health care and the supply of physical personal protective equipment for all workers in hospitals. The end of the quarantine will also reveal that a number of critical sites and structures, such as workplaces, education, public transport, are completely unprepared. It cannot be possible for workers' health protection measures to be stopped outside the gates of factories, supermarkets, hospitals, other large workplaces where there is indeed a very large crowd. It is not possible for workers to go on a daily basis in public transport in order to move about their work because of the reduced routes which - not to fool each other - are not going to increase too much. Schools - even high school and high school or even primary schools - cannot open up without the necessary conditions, the conditions of protection, without the necessary measures and instruments which, of course, teachers and students must supply for free. Justifiable, then, parents, teachers, students, students are concerned about their opening and their concern is not, you know, in the air. Here you in the pandemic filed a bill that goes up - if possible! - the number of pupils in kindergarten and primary schools per school hall in twenty-six instead of reducing them. We tell you clearly: Leave this unhealthy management of misery aside at last. Stop playing with the struggles of the world. Schools must meet all health and safety conditions with continuous capacity to clean up during school hours, with special care for those of teachers - even with special permission - and for those of students belonging to vulnerable groups. Even massive tests you need to see to be the whole world of education more sure. The world of the educational community, therefore, has specific needs and demands for the present day and is aware of the situation from the inside because it has experienced this school of vacant children as sardines in one class. It is also your work, gentlemen of the New Democracy, but also of SYRIZA, who may have said that the schools will not be opened without a single claim, because he has his nest caught for what we are living today. Also, the lifting of the quarantine will reveal far more that labour rights have received a overwhelming blow. Any anti-Semitism you and BSE had in your patronage, and you have the courage to speak of supposedly unprecedented support measures for workers. Workers from industries and workplaces who daily report these miserable working conditions, all kinds of employers' practices, threats, blackmail, all they see is the provocative support of great employers. You're provocative. Make sure you don't know that all this time hundreds of businesses are getting rid of staff, putting thousands of ice workers on parole of contracts. You do not know that with a tool to rotate work, the employment of a few days is squeezing out workers by intensification of work. Didn't you really hear anything about the payout, the paid-off delay, the overtime and the days off? But who, really, see you? Here you do not pay the newspapers to the people, otherwise - in your own words - heroic hospital doctors. What can be expected from private sector entrepreneurs? At the same time, cleaning workers in hospitals remain unpaid for months. Their contracts are over. The ones you call "heroes" in the proclamations, the ones on the front line, are due to them all in the middle of the pandemic. For them, really, are you saying that you're looking into their eyes"? Do you not know that with business support measures, i.e. differences in aid, facilities and financial instruments, you have solved your hands in some big business sharks? Not counting April, on the basis of official evidence, more than a hundred and five thousand redundancies were made either directly or in contracts ending or with the so-called voluntary departures, as forced final resignations are, of course. Haven't you ever heard of the hundreds of redundancies of workers who've been working at airports for years? Who can now check what is going on in the workplace, since even this incomplete labour inspectorate's control mechanism you put it on ice? Don't tell us about the conditions that companies must respect. You know very well that entrepreneurs are obliged to take back to work the same workers whose contract has been suspended for as long as government measures for the pandemic are in force, that is, for forty-five days. In just Greek, that is, what you are doing is making it easier for them to lay off these workers, after they first make use of favourable regulations, exemptions and funding, businessmen themselves. In two months you gave the firm as many antique weapons as you didn't give it all the years of the memorial. Of course, the lifting of the quarantine will reveal that the capitalist economy enters into a deep and uncertain time and duration of crisis. In fact, after a long time we have heard that truth from you too, Mr Mitsotakis. After weeks of trying to convince the Greek people that the economic crisis is a small parenthesis to normality and growth, now you can only admit the obvious, that your very favourite freedom of the capitalist market and not, of course, socialism, socialised production, the central scientific project for the economy you spend is the one that has brought this economic crisis, which now - in your own words again - will be deep and global. So your dearest capitalism brings all this up, highlighting his rot and all his inhumanity. The argument you're trying to serve is that it's the coronary that froze the economy and brought us to the crisis. But the facts themselves are more stubborn. Since 2019, the global economy has been in a slowdown situation and the European Union's economy has been practically stable, while forecasts for 2020 have been essentially talking about worsening the situation both in the European Union and in the United States of America and in China. We've told all of you from this one step over and over, but it looks like one of your ears was coming in from the other. The krone, ladies and gentlemen, has simply brought to the surface, with a strong and violent, if you like, a way of definitely these enormous contradictions of capitalism itself, of the large-scale overcompensation of funds that cannot simply be invested. In our country, the economic crisis cannot be much more profound again. The reason for this is that the development of the domestic capitalist economy has been based on the infamous extrovert that you and the previous government of SYRIZA are methodically cultivating, of course, always loyally following the BSE directives and the other employers' organizations. We as a JRC warned, both you and Mr. Tsipras, that the course you have taken is unpopular, is dangerous. We were only telling you a few months ago, at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, when you were fighting with SYRIZA about who of the two had the greatest contribution to this extroversion, that this course that you both follow in the economy exposes multiples the domestic economy, and in the medium and long term, to international fluctuations. And we have pointed out that if a crisis occurs next time, it will be very acute in the Greek economy, in which tourism, transport, have a very important role. And we've been confirmed. Even the bills you have brought for education - to go further - and for the environment they are revealing the whole situation. Let's say, the environmental bill practically itself was written by industrialists a year ago to be able to obtain environmental permits from individuals. Thousands of self-employed micro-enterprises in commerce, catering, tourism see them compress, on the occasion of the coronary pandemic by large companies. Electronic commerce scans and concentrates trade movement. As far as hotels are concerned, you are closing the small hotels, the rooms in order to understand less the crisis in tourism by the large hotel groups. The focus will eventually work on asphyxiating terms and thousands of small businesses will put a padlock on. We hear SYRIZA say his view is confirmed, that great state intervention is required and that you of the New Democracy cannot do it because you are neoliberal. However, SYRIZA is well aware that the urban management mix chosen at a time is not determined by the particular political views of each individual government, but by the needs themselves, by the capital priorities themselves at a given moment. It's ironic if you think about it, of course. You, gentlemen of the New Democracy, denounced SYRIZA that he was applying neoliberal solutions, but that he did not believe in neoliberalism and that was why he was not effective enough. And SYRIZA replied that because he doesn't believe him, he can apply him in a more prologue way, anyway. Now, we have one, not to say full, reversal of roles. Of course, it does not impress us. If nothing else, this irony shows one thing, your strategic converging, committed to the service of a rotten and corrupt system. Depending on the period, the mixture in the economy must be more, sometimes less expansionary, so the color of the political manager is very small, after all, of importance. Because, in the end, the state and its policy cannot be polite in these and under any circumstances within the framework of this system. He can't even make concessions he made in the past, with other international powers, but in other circumstances. What does SYRIZA also say? It says that the solution can be given through Eurobonds, which will bring about a progressive European Union. However, Eurobonds cannot change neither the European Union's strategic objective, which is the competitiveness of its monopolistic groups, nor cancel the crisis. The debate on Eurobonds, the kronebonds, at least, is simply expressing the contradictions between the groups in the different states about who will lose more than the crisis. The French and Italians are calling on the Germans to pay more. You have also remembered now the governments of the countries of the South, which are well known to everyone that they have committed to the detriment of their peoples over the past years and now during the pandemic period. You see Spain, you see Italy, with different management mixes, but with the same result. Mercy! You are negotiating with the European Union, with the institutions, for a few months' delay in the auctions and seizures, what you have told us today. You are slapping the strategic malicious payments of thousands of households and very small businesses, which are in fact the victims of the previous crisis and the anti-grass policy of the memorials and cannot pay. You continue on the path of the previous government of SYRIZA, which started extinguishing the incomplete protection measures and proceeded to electronic auctions. The state subsidy arrangement for certain loans burdens the taxpayers, the employees and the self-employed. Unfortunately, there are no magical solutions that can serve both the interests of creditors and banks, who want to get rid of red loans on the one hand and over-paid households and taxpayers on the other. The real relief of workers is the proposal for a law which has been tabled in good time by the JRC and which you have all rejected. This proposal was to be voted on by the House. The Scylla of the financially tight European Union is no different for the peoples of Harybdis, the Federation of the European Union, which Mrs Gennimata once again remembered as an alternative, with a single budget and even more tradition of national sovereignty in it. No change, we tell you, in the mix of fiscal and monetary policy, of any new Marshall plan, of any digital state services, is actually not a progressive reform of the system, which results in our people serving its interests and, of course, they do not relieve this system under any circumstances, even if all or some of them are made, from their huge deadlocks and from the upcoming crisis. As was the case in 2009. Capitalism calculates people's lives and needs, mainly based on the profits of monopolies, a few. That's in his DNA and nothing else. That's why we're saying it's not reformed with a few dimes. It's only from a depth that changes, from a depth it's overthrown. Just like that, honestly. But what will mainly reveal the end of the quarantine is what the pandemic itself has shown. The real political problem of the country, the huge deadlocks of the system and the development path that is being followed. It will ask even more urgently the question: development by whom and for whom. To this question you have all answered, and the gentlemen of the New Democracy and SYRIZA. You have responded with your works and as a government alternating both, it goes without saying, but as an opposition again. You both made the opposition and the government. Your choice was the degradation, commercialisation of the public health system, with PPPs orgasming the private sector. It was your choice that Greece should not have a state-owned pharmaceutical company and be ballast in international markets for the supply of health material. Your choice was the merges of schools, the twenty-five sections in schools, the armies of assistant teachers, the vouchers through private training structures. Your choice is the flexibility in the labour market and whoever can withstand. Your choice was to undermine the country's production capacities, industrial units such as LARCO, the undermining of agricultural production to open the road, is assumed, for the extroversion of the economy, that is to say, the great dependence on tourism and shipping, in general, transport, which increases the risks ahead of the crisis. Your choice was the memorials, these useful tools in time of crisis for the capital, so that they stay and then in a phase of a possible recovery, if they come. Your choice is the European Union's strategy, which now proves how isolated one country can be in such circumstances, when in competition it is desperately seeking even health material or other supplies. Your choice is to caging refugees and immigrants in our country so that you do not collide with the European Union and your other allies. Your choice is to participate in NATO and the United States planning in the region, costing us more than EUR 4 billion a year. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] And when we were talking about the modern needs that the people can satisfy, based on the country's productive potential, you said that all of this is maximistic that it is not realistic that it is utopian. Yours minimalist and realistic, however, we have lived through them, the Greek people have lived in them for years now. She's always giving you time credit, she's patient, she's trying to bear. But when? Once the strengths end. And above all tolerances are transformed into a racing stimulus of resistance, changes and radical twists. Thank you. The rest in my dentistry. I was the best in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u16	The most concise, Mr President. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like, starting today's speech, to express my grief for the image presented by the Greek Parliament. I say that with soul pain. If the other Presidents cannot bear four hours to listen to the Presidents of the parties, I do not think today's speech was necessary. Each came and said his own - he does not listen to the opponent, he does not respect the presence of his opponents - just to make his party special. I'm telling you, every president who comes speaks and leaves. It is disgraceful that Members of Parliament also have the floor - because their President is leaving - and they are blocking - within or outside the introductory part of the House. We are talking about a very important issue. It's not pandemic the major issue, it's all about the economy. I would say that it is much more important, Mr Prime Minister, than our budget. I have to say once again that you have to submit it from the outset to the budget you submitted in December. Because he's been derailed. It's no longer the case. We have an emergency. Unfortunately, however, we are sitting here talking only to address our party audience. I'm sad, I repeat. The parties' presidents must - at least once a month come here or once a month - sit five or six hours to listen to opponents. It's respect for the opponent, but also knowledge of what the opponent says. You could hear something different, something that the President of the SYRIZA Party, PASOK, KINAL, KKE, Mer25, the Greek Solution, of the New Democracy did not think. We don't all know it all. Let's get something from the others. [[At this point the President-in-Office takes over the President of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS]] I start like this and go to my speech today. Prime Minister, I was very pleased to hear you referred to Thucidis at some point in your speech. That's a great report. I must remind you, however, that Thucidis of the Epitaph refers to something quite different from what you said. He is referring to Athens and to the same one who left a city - state self-sufficient for peace and war. I'd say it's unlucky historically - because I'm an archaeologist, a historian - the selective reference to Thucidis. Because if we refer to Thucidis, neither you nor PASOK nor SYRIZA, you left yourself alone and ready for peace in Greece. It's not today's problem. You're not even a year of Prime Minister. But I am referring to the time-consuming presence of your party. So, I'm saying it was a bad report. I'll put it in the Minutes, if you want. He's here. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The "conservation of the good above the property" is exactly what Pericles says. Let's actually go. You spoke, Prime Minister, about a fair burden sharing. I ask the Greek Prime Minister: Prime Minister, for 10 years the Greek people have been paying for them. Because, in this unpleasant new burden of pandemic and unpleasant economic events that will come, it is not the citizens' fault. It is not the citizens' fault for the pandemic or the measures that will never take any government seriously. Because we're also going to put forward proposals here. Because we're not just here to criticize. I regret the leaders of the rest of the parties, who have constantly heard them make criticisms and suggestions only too few to infinitely. If we want democracy to be enriched, it must be enriched by proposals. What has troubled me in particular, Prime Minister, is the plan for auctioning. Why would it be three, Prime Minister? Can you tell me? Why don't you make them a year like you did to the chosen canalarchs? You told them they wouldn't pay anything, and next year we'll see what they'll pay. Do the same for the auctions. That is to say, transfer it for the time being. I say this because we have a whole proposal for auctions. We have not only talked about Bad Bank as a party. We have submitted our entire analysis programme. Oh, no. There's another way. If you cannot, all auctions are suspended for one year. And next year we'll do what the funds do, the New Democracy, the KINAL, but also SYRIZA. How much does the fund buy it? He buys it with 3%.5%.10%. Charge 15% you. I'll be with you again. I have one question, and I repeat it, because I listened carefully. You spoke about tourism, Prime Minister. You said that the aim is to reduce the negative consequences. The target is excellent. Will you tell us how? Because I, too, intend to be the President of the United States, or I may want to be something else. I can't find the way. The way I want to hear from the government, not the target. This is not a pre-election period - unless it is and I do not know it - where you will set targets. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Implementation of policy means a way. I have this goal, and I want that way to go to my goal. This is the rationale of the Greek Solution. You said, Mr President-in-Office, 'leaf trees'. I fully agree with you. There are no ‘leaf trees’. Don't be fooled. But after a while, I heard you give back money. How did it happen - why are you a serious politician, I have known you for years - to say that there are no "leaf trees" and to address SYRIZA and then a few minutes later to self-determination and to identify yourself by speaking of benefits? In the end, Prime Minister, the way you do it, there will be no 'leaf trees', but no money or trees. Because I want you to point out to me the way, not the target or the 'I'm going to do'. The 'will' does not work, at least in the production process. There is also the three-month extension. I guess you didn't hear me before. As far as the auctions and the quarterly extension are concerned, what does your Minister mean? That after three months, the borrower who doesn't have to eat today, will his pocket be filled with money? Will his pocket have to pay? Where's he going to get them? You are talking about a subsidy scheme. I heard. You're talking about a bridge program, a subsidy. But again, you're not telling us the way. Tell us how this is going to happen so we can know. To be able to tell the Greek who lives in Kosani, Crete that you have a red loan, but the Prime Minister said after three months he has found the way - and he is - to relieve you. Not giving a little bit of hope to someone, saying that you will do this without saying how. It's important to convince us. Also, there's something that bothered me, Prime Minister. You came here, you told us five things. You told us, however, that the Ministers would inform you of the measures this afternoon. Why, Prime Minister? What are we talking about here then? You said the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Development would say some things this afternoon. Couldn't the Prime Minister say it today? And do I have to wait this afternoon to see how? Will they tell us the details this afternoon? I want the details to criticize the Prime Minister. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] How will it be, Mr. Comrade? Will I wait for the Minister to let me know if I can get a press release and make a review? Wrong route. That is my opinion. I might be wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u18	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u19	I can't have a dialogue with everyone. So you're here to let us know. But at the end of the day, your ministers will inform us. All right, this afternoon around 19:00 with 20:00, we'll get a press release. It's going to pass in the change because the media control it. And neither is the Greek Solution nor the Mer25, nor the SYRIZA nor the KINAL. We're gonna get a press release and no one's gonna play it, Prime Minister. Here I ask for your grace and your help. Pick up the phone as Prime Minister and talk to the PSE yourself. I won't say about the channels. You're putting ads on the channels. You're right, it's your right. That's how SYRIZA did "Groups", pastures, etc. You're doing it. Take a phone, however, and say you can't show New Democracy all day. Not all day from morning until night I see all the ministers of the New Democracy parade. This is where Kathimerini was annoyed, which, as a newspaper, is a co-chairman. And he said he'd better not talk to the ministers, but act, work. He said, "KATHMERINA" wrote it the day before yesterday. Every morning you open a channel you'll see Adoni, Mr. Stakoura - less of course - and all the ministers are paralyzing. It's not a TV star parade. The Minister's doing a job. After all, they all have a job. And this job is either a MP or a minister under the office of Prime Minister or a citizen better. To work. So take a phone, show the rest of the parties. I see a news report and I hear what the Prime Minister said and what the Minister said. Then they throw a wedge of SYRIZA, a little of KINAL, little KIC - the Secretary of the KIC has left - and infinitely for Mera25 and us. We're nonexistent. This is no accident, Prime Minister. It's not fair either. Because I know you're doing well, you can find a way here to call the President of the PSE, anyway. Democracy cannot work like this. How will the voice of the Greek Solution, of the Day25, of the JRC and of the other parties be heard? I'm talking about everybody. We need to understand what's important at some point. I heard the good presidents, who don't give us the pleasure of being here, they came, they talked and they left, they talk about recruitment. I can say: hire two hundred thousand Greeks tomorrow morning. To recruit all Greeks." But they didn't tell me where the money would come from for that. It is not a question of auctioning populism by saying 'to recruit'. It is important that I have the way to ensure that these recruitments do not become a new barbaric in the already burdened Greek economy, which is bankrupt and not to be mocked. I didn't hear any way, I didn't hear any suggestions. That's what bothers me most. Now we are going to the other part, Prime Minister, which, unfortunately, you have allowed. I say 'unfortunately', because you are a serious politician and allowed them. Listen: "You can't leave home for no reason," experts told us, "but if you have to go out, then you can go out doing a paper." 'All shops', Prime Minister, you told us, 'but some shops will be closed'. "The gloves will not help you," you said all together and yelled, "but they may even help." They're all the strangers that messed up the world. They've been confused by children. 'This virus will disappear in the summer'. It was said by many infectious and epidemiologists, "but perhaps it will stay forever or perhaps come in September." "We will remain locked until we reach the immunity of herd." Yes, which means that everyone needs to be infected, but remaining locked in our house. It's all contradictory, it's all different. Do you know what he's done to the world? In addition to the terrorism suffered by the Greek Prime Minister, I would ask you to listen to me - and I am honestly going to say this straight away, and I am going to be briefed by various types of information. Listen: 'The virus does not affect children, except those that are ill'. I heard it from a university professor on a Greek channel. My uncle hears it in the village and says: what does that man say? "We took the virus from the animals, but the animals cannot be contaminated." That's what they said. It's things that have been said. Listen, because some of you are disgusting, all you know what they're doing? They're rejuvenating the civic logic. So you want to drive the citizen? So, we're saying, if you don't get sick, you have to wear a mask. A few months ago, we shouldn't have worn a mask. Now we have to wear a mask. Indulgently now we have masks. Before we didn't, we shouldn't have to wear masks. So not all of this is directed at beings, unfortunately, Prime Minister. Let's go to the rest. Look, Prime Minister, I find it a bit suspicious that the entire political system has fallen on the Greek Orthodox Church for ten to fifteen days and everyone wanted to close the churches, not to hear the bells, not to hear the loudspeakers, not to hear the priest, not to do the divine function, not to do anything. If I are to protect Greece and the citizens, I understand that, and I hear that with great respect. At the same time, at the same time in the previous days, however, mosques normally operated. And the loudspeakers were working, and the imams were up. Everything was real. Whoever doesn't believe I'm presenting the videos to them, but also the reports from our Thrace. I'm telling you, it's from our Thrace. You come, Prime Minister, curiously, suddenly, because Ramadan started five to six days ago, and you say the churches should open now. That's a coincidence, I'd say, a strange coincidence in my mind. I can't interpret it. In all likelihood, the government could not close the mosques, the government could not prohibit Islamics from giving more than the minaret and allowed the Greek churches. I ask: What right and what scientist told me that the loudspeaker is carrying the coronary? What scientist told me, I'll just say, that the epilepsy couldn't make a ride? He's carrying the coronary? Or for the divine function by themselves? What scientist told me that? Because I want to listen to this scientist carefully. Because neither with loudspeakers nor bells nor with functions is the coronary transferred. So this selective reference, particularly from a conservative - centre-right party, will you, liberal? - that keeps up with customs, customs and traditions, it seemed very strange to me. So, I say again, Prime Minister, you feared that you could not shut down the mosques for that, and you opened the churches. That shows you're also unfair. I want to say something and I want you to listen to me. A great politician, Prime Minister, and great governments are the ones with great and unresolved problems that exist every day, make them look small, become small and easily resolved. This is the great politician, Prime Minister. Not to overthrow a problem and come back and say 'we have received it from the previous ones'. And I'm not talking to you, everyone did this, the previous ones, the previous ones, the previous ones. It's always the previous ones. Because we live in 2020, this must be stopped. Because first a man is shown, Prime Minister, he cannot one day - I will show it to you now because it is your Minister - Chardalias who is released with a mask and the other without a mask. It's an example. I have them here with dates. One day, Mr. Chiodras will come out of me, without a mask and the other will come out with a mask. One day, Chardalias will take a picture of me with the Ministry's General Secretariat with a mask and no mask. I do not say that for you, you are not responsible to God. But some people have an official seat, and I've got too many photos. I won't say about the protossalt trixate. Because with the psalmist, the coroner is carried, but with the Protossalt, no, to understand your contradictions! And I won't say it's your fault for what happened outside the Maximus Hall. The reporters were on each other. But they are images that, if you like, the prestige that our country should have in a pandemic, not even you, the possibility of saying "citizen sit at home, guess." It can't be done. You cannot, on the one hand, tell the citizen "Hold your house, guess" and, on the other, do squirms in the triad of Protossalt, which, as a gyro, was running in Athens and told us "we are still alive". Okay, we know, we're still alive. It's all these things that really are, Prime Minister, they are disturbing. You've been inviting the polls here a while ago. You're absolutely right. It is a very important moment to see that the New Democracy and you personally record 83% acceptance and positive comments. Do you know, Prime Minister, that history, unfortunately, is reproduced in a strial? The exact same and better percentages were taken by Mr. Tsipras in 2015, 87%. And you know, unfortunately, from 'Ozanna' to 'cross', crucify Him' is a step in this Greece. So is always, over time, history has shown it. I hope you don't suffer it, clearly things. Why? For the sake of our country. Have it all go well, make it work and applaud you, if you succeed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u20	The 'cross' in politics has a different meaning. We have a cross of preference.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u21	Yeah, vote. It is also a volley, Mr President, but it can be more. You know, there's a volley, the boulder that was shooting, and there's the volley the other one. Let's get down to the point. So I say, Prime Minister, that some things, unfortunately, especially with what is happening in the media are annoying and I will say it. I hear we are being bombarded by an ad, which has cost many millions of euros, Prime Minister. It's the 'we're waiting home'. Okay, it was an idea, you made it happen. Why don't you make a better idea? In order for the Greeks to stay at home, there must be Greece. In order to stay Greece, Prime Minister, and really stay Greece, do a promotional spot and say "Take Greek products, support Greek products, only Greek products". Italy has already done so since yesterday, and unfortunately Turkey is not an example for me, but Turkey is doing so too. Make a spot, and I'm sure of all the channels. To get the citizen to actually get Greek products and not imported. Greek milk, Greek cheese, which is about EUR 10 billion, some say 8 to 7 that imports of meat, milk and other products and we will reduce the trade deficit. They're just things. There should be no auctions to stay at home or stay at home. If there are no auctions, in order to stay at home, there must be Greece. If we want Greece to exist, there are proposals that can be made. Spot, bomb with Greek products. Push the supermarmals with only Greek products. It's not hard. They did it in other countries. I don't want to talk about the masks or launch shots that SYRIZA did. All right, we produce masks. A friend of the New Democracy, the industrialist, what's his name, Dabelis? - he did a production. I wish there were ten other productions, twenty other productions, twenty other, thirty local productions. Produce products. You want a mask, a respirator? We should produce here. It's important. I heard Mrs. Gennamas talking about honor. You know the problem on the Greek political scene, Prime Minister, is that they don't know the basics, not Mrs. Gennimata, but generally. You cannot impose a valuation scheme on a product that has the raw material imported. It's not up to you. I want you to understand that. In other words, even the mask manufactured in Larissa in the agro-industrial industry, the raw materials are imported. So you can't put valuation status unless the government and the state pay it. I want here, when we say things, to really mean them. That is why we need to go from the production line, Prime Minister, from alpha to the omega, because it is not enough to do the industry with imported raw materials. Because I, too, produce products, Prime Minister, for 60% of the products my company produces, the materials are imported. You can't impose on me a valuation regime. It is not possible because the European Parliament that sells me the material can tell you that it wants it more expensive or cheaper. It's, unfortunately, a stock market. I'm saying that to be consistent. We'll make suggestions later. I said it all along. The Prime Minister spoke of a security bridge for your schools. Mr. Chiodras and Mrs. Keramea spoke of a "important challenge". With uncertainties the return to school." Listen, ladies and gentlemen. You've got kids most of them. Who gives the right to anyone risking our children's lives? Listen: "Signant challenge. With uncertainties the return to school." If this is called a Minister's statement that wants to convince the citizen that his child is not in danger, you are wrong. Why did we open the schools, Prime Minister? You tell me a reason. If you're sure there's no problem, let's open it all. If, however, there is what it says "major challenge, uncertainties", when it comes to human lives, there is no risk to uncertainty. Risk his child, Velopoulos, if he wants. Risking his family. But you can't risk someone else's kid. Of course, I'll give you a number, too, so you can understand teachers. 73% of permanent teachers are over fifty-one years old. I mean, he's at a dangerous age. It's sixty. How do you do that? So these are your mistakes, Mr Prime Minister. You've got more mistakes. I have here, Prime Minister, and your signatures. This is one of all New Democracy MPs. I'm tabling them in the Minutes. These are your signatures, gentlemen. You accused the Syrians from here, who disappeared as usual and left - only Mr Giannoulis - that they had direct assignments. Here, take them. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's over four hundred questions from the New Democracy about direct assignments with complaints through incredible means. They're justifiable, Prime Minister. You were quite right - I read them one by one - about these assignments. They smelled like scandals. But you come here today and you do the same, unfortunately, with direct assignments. So, on the one hand, you cannot accuse SYRIZA's gentlemen of making assignments and coming as government to do the same thing just as you do. They're direct assignments. I saw some masks of tens of millions of euros. I'll testify to the Minutes to see them. It's in a New Democracy assignment. I'm telling you that. I couldn't figure out why you fell into the trap. On the other hand, you made a mistake. I think it is wrong, Prime Minister, that of the CEC. It was a mistake. I am not saying that the Minister and the Prime Minister resign. Who hasn't made mistakes in his life? We all made mistakes. You'll tell me that in politics the public pays it too. Yes, I do. You can fix it, Prime Minister. It's easy. It's not hard. You were giving EUR 600 to lawyers and EUR 470 to CECs, i.e. EUR 1070 per head. That was the cost. Now you give the scientists 600 euros. Where is the EUR 470? Aren't you giving it to me? I'll give you an idea. Give EUR 470 to all scientists - what you would give anyway - on coupons to buy Greek products only to support the primary sector, the rural economy, agriculture, livestock farming, to have hope for tomorrow. Some may smile in here because they haven't worked in their lives for one day because they do service, but production is so supported. The farmer, gentlemen, hungered Easter because he didn't get a goat from the Greeks to bake. He really hungered, and it's not populism. Let's get serious in here. The production line is thus supported in certain ways. Who's that? After I give the money, an obligation will have for the one who would not have it in his pocket, the scientist, to go and get 200 euros of Greek products, such as honey, butter, meat, milk, to move the economy first. What's simpler than that? It is not so difficult and it can also give examples of indirect premiums to other countries. Spain did it last year. But, unfortunately, here you have confused the realistic economic policy and arguments with populism. If that's populism, you probably don't know the meaning of the term. Prime Minister, I want you to get a phone to all your ministries this afternoon and ask your ministers how many people have files ready. Mr. Gerapetritis can do that, the sympathizer, otherwise, who speaks very well Greek. Take your ministers and check them out. How many people have ready-made NSRF files in their drawers? I am talking about the NSRF, not these NSRF for 200 euros and 500 euros. I'm talking about real investments. They're files ready, Prime Minister. Only in a ministry are there twenty-six investors who have been waiting for three or four months to start their investment and I can inform you, if you want, in person, and Mr. Gerapetritis, I can tell you which Ministry he is. These twenty-six investments are hundreds of millions of euros, Prime Minister, who are delaying three to four months and could give jobs. They could give jobs to Greeks, start the process of economic production. Because the ministers are stalled because I remember you saying - and you were absolutely right, and you were electorally speaking, but also in the budget - that the procedures will be speeded up. I told you, if you don't know, I can testify to you. I can come to your office or give it to Mr. Gerapetritis and tell you which Ministry he is, to understand that you are all good at saying things. And I don't want to expose any Minister in here. There's no need at this stage. But four months in the drawers of a N.S.S.S. Secretary ready? Do you know what the worst, Prime Minister? That the individual is required to have 40% to 50% of its own funds in the bank. He's testified, Prime Minister. Listen to me for a minute. I want Members to understand what I'm saying now. The private investor for an investment of EUR 10 million with a 50% subsidy, the 5 million must have it deposited with the bank and committed - 50% is from the NSRP - and wait six months for the private with parked money and that cannot touch them, because if he touches them and lacks the capital, the NSRP can take this project away from him. I mean, it's incredible what's going on, Prime Minister. I'm telling you, it's unbelievable. Take a closer look at it. Take the initiative. What can we do? Unfortunately, in this country we must also take the masty once and for all. I'm saying that to understand it. So the hard thing is not to close an economy, Prime Minister. You closed it for good so the pandemic won't go on. The hard thing is to unlock it, Prime Minister. Now the hard stuff is starting for you. I sincerely hope for the good of my country that the plan will go well if you have a plan. I don't see the plan. But I wish that for the good of our country it would go well. Whoever it was, and Tsipras and Gennamata, I would wish it wholeheartedly for the sake of Greece. But I'll tell you something. From what I heard, Prime Minister, I heard only measures on loan, borrower money. I didn't see a production of wealth. I didn't hear a way to produce wealth. And there is. You know that this loan, Prime Minister, is not outrageous. We'll get it back. We won't have to turn them around, Prime Minister, if we don't produce ourselves if we don't work on primary production ourselves. Then we'll never be able to return this money. We will all be trapped here and apologise to the Greek people. The worst thing is that we will not be able to help those who voted for us and the worst of all will be that there will no longer be a Greek who will be hungry. If that - I repeat - is reasonable, we have another logic. Listen to the distortion, Mr. Roussepoulou. We give the Greek money so it doesn't work. The benefits are to keep them from working. Do you know what I would do, Mr. Russopoulou? I'd make a plan so that the money I'll give to go get a place, go to work, work for the Greeks, don't make them soft. The Greek wants a job. The Greek does not want to be merciful. It is not a poor house for Greece to share benefits to poor people. He wants work for the Greeks. Find a way. There are. If you do not know in the New Democracy, read our program how to do this. Other countries have done so. I say it because I want the Greek to work. To produce, Mr. Comrade. That's not how it works. Mr Stagiras, a while ago in SKAI, if I am not mistaken - because the ministers are on the canals all the time - said that within three months of today Greece will be running out with just 12 billion euros. It's his statement. The fund of Greece is 36 billion. Your Minister said it. From SCAF it announced 24 billion dollars over a quarter. If we do the removal, Prime Minister, you'll see that there's no money left. You tell us that in three months there will be no money in Greece. Greece won't have any money. That is what your Minister himself told us. You are telling us about 7.5% of GDP, 3.5% of GDP, today you have told us about 17 billion. You told us about 7.5% to 14 billion, and today you told us 17 billion, that is, 8% and more. What's the matter with all this? I want to know. And what measures are they actually costly? Because 800 euros have not been taken yet. Prime Minister, you haven't got 800 euros. If we were out and said to raise the hand of anyone who took 800 euros, they would pick it up, but in this way - I'm sorry - why didn't they take it, they haven't taken it. I ask people and they tell me they didn't take them. You announced measures in March, Prime Minister. May's coming in now and they still didn't get any money. For small and medium-sized enterprises, unfortunately, I will tell you something very simple. You do well and open the focus, because that's where Greece can get money and move the market a little. But I have a question, Prime Minister. You tell the restaurant "You have 100 tables, you'll have 20" or it'll work in 1/4 that is. So reduce the fixed expenses - VAT, PPC - to 1/4. Since you are compelled to operate a company that needs 10 euros permanently with 1/4 of its operating space, then find a way. You know, in business, we need to talk a little bit of business. Ask businessmen, your friends, if you don't have one, or ask me. If you tell me I make 100 euros at 20 meters, I'll make 20 euros. I can't host a client's log. It'll be every two yards per three yards, says the other one. It can't be done! Listen to me, it's fine to talk about it here, but you go out to the market and put them on the market. The market has its own rules, it has its own conditions. You did this. Decrease, he says, rent rent, Prime Minister. That is to say, a private person wins - right - but the other one loses, the one who rents it. And he's a private person, he's renting a space, and he's taking a hate. Find a way to balance it from taxation, but not from HISPIA, because that's a fairy tale, Prime Minister. Because the discount of HISBIA is small compared to what the other one loses, who owns the property. I'm just telling you things. You give EUR 200 million to the vouches - all right - and EUR 150 million to the rural economy only, Prime Minister. How will Greece produce? You give the rural economy EUR 150 million and EUR 200 million to the vouches. Wrong is management. You're doing the wrong thing. You're saying you're going to give electronic insurance information. This New Democracy troll story will stop, Prime Minister. Now listen. The 2019 liquidation has not been effected! No payments have been made for 2018! They haven't identified much of the payments to the FBI due to a change in payment codes from 1-1-2020. They were exempted from the allowance of EUR 800 - and rightly so - free traders. I'm telling you a few things to understand that all right, you have consultants, you hear them, you come, you say things. They are not being implemented, Prime Minister. They don't apply them. It's not just one of them because politics and football are a team sport, gentlemen. If I have a broken leg counter, whatever the Prime Minister can do to me from there, the best player and be - not Maradona, not Messie, I don't know who he is - he won't be able alone. That is why the opposition parties must also help, because it is a pandemic, it is a problem, it is an important problem for Greece and the Greeks, as long as we can with proposals only. Opposition is easy. Now listen to other mistakes. My Business Platform for the Ottocosari for Free Professionals. They put in instructions on 28-4-2020. One part of the platform was closed on 21-4-2020, the other was closed on 28-4-2020. On 28-4-2020 they put in the directives on the submission and payment of insurance contributions for March. They can't, my Prime Minister, they can't! It's a good digital country, but that's not how it works. Wrong! I'm closing because I've consumed a lot of time with hotels. Prime Minister, 16 billion euros will be lost, for granted. It's hard to regain them. Let's win more than that suffering we've suffered. Let the epidemiologists stop talking about the hotels. I was listening in the morning to "ANT1" two epidemiologists talking about how hotels will work and one said that breakfast, Mr. Vice President, must take it room service. Has the epidemiologist realised that the man who works in the provision of a service, that to have room service a hotel of three hundred need two hundred employees, need to wash the dishes, be carried, wear a astronaut suit everyone who goes to the room? These things can't be done. It's very difficult. I'll say it one more time. Hotels will suffer a huge blow. Don't deceive ourselves, Prime Minister. We don't have any illusions about the economy going well with hotels. The turnover lost in 2020, according to the Chamber of Tourism Research, is about 5 billion. It's gone this year. However, this may begin, Prime Minister, something that Greece will be grateful for for for the next ten years. What's that? Two or three sections. First section: Call all hoteliers and tell them that in China, India and Japan some special robots began using in the workplace. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. There is. He's at the Ministry of Tourism in Japan. Turn around. It's about some work that can be done without direct contact. Secondly, those who open up the hotels, Prime Minister, should commit, with tax relief, a reduction in VAT? - get Greek products at their hotels. Greek products! You are from a country, Mr. Colleague, from Lamia, you have very nice local dishes. Therefore, must the hotels throughout Greece take Greek products, Greek production, standardization, Greek product, support the farmer, farmer, fish. So those who come here this year and because we have very nice products, quality products, much better than other countries, will ask for them in their country that they go and thus have the possibility of exporting products abroad. It is an indirect advertising, but this is how the farmer and the farmer, the Greek beekeeper, wins the Greeks and moves the process. Do you know how big he is? With Mr. Villard the economist we talked about it, Prime Minister. It can be about 1.5 to 2 billion euros the price of products. In other words, 1.5 to 2 billion euros will stay here in Greece, in Greek wallets, in Greek pockets with Greek products, with a reasonable increase in time. I said it, because forty-five thousand jobs will be lost anyway by tourism. Whatever we do, they'll be lost. Because I'm talking about economy, take this one right now, see why I'm talking about production of Greek riches. German sugar, ladies and gentlemen! In Greek supermarket, Prime Minister. We shut down the Sakharovy Industry, kicked people out, committed crimes. The previous governments - and I will fully agree with all of you - have given every unsuccessful Member of Parliament money. Yes, it is German sugar, Prime Minister, and here it has Germany's address. It's in Manheim. You know Germany, I know her, too. I'm saying that to understand. Greece, which had self-sufficiency and adequacy in sugar, imported from Germany. Let me take 'MERCEDES' - which I take 'MERCEDES' - from Germany, I understand that. Greece has no "MERCEDES". But get to the point where I don't have sugar and honey? Something is wrong with the Greek economy, Prime Minister. These are the problems and these need to be resolved. They've been pathogens for decades. If New Democracy wants to stay as the best government - because that's what you're saying now, I'm going to believe it too - do the basics, because you're actually going to composite. That's the reality. An unpleasant news I have to announce. Today, Prime Minister - unfortunately for us, for our country - EXXON MOBIL, TOTAL and ENI have been suspended in Cyprus. Unsatisfactory development. Just look at this, my Prime Minister, because the fact that the work of the companies that gave us a pillow - as I say exactly - is a crime that, unfortunately, we will find in front of us. Because there are no friends, there are interests. I am also calling on Mr Tindemans - since yesterday afternoon, there have been incidents in the northern continent of Rama, our Prime Minister. People entered Greek homes and persecuted the Greek Northcontinents. Look at it. I'm making an appeal. You're the man who pledged in here for the North-West Pensions. We expect you to implement this commitment for the Greeks as well. Let's do it. It's hard, I know. Let the process begin to take place - but step by step. You know, I don't make a sterile opposition or plunder. But I will tell you, my dear Prime Minister, what Agathon said in 448 BC, Athenian tragic poet. Three things must be remembered, Prime Minister, when it is in power, that it governs people - we must understand that - that we must manage people and everything that happens around them and always according to the law, and third and most importantly, that it will not rule forever. Remember that, Prime Minister. So run fast, you and your government to leave work behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u22	We don't just have information, we have an archaeological knowledge. We have Marriage, Pericles. And I wanted to say about the "acquisition and safeguarding the goods", I don't know if it was made a mistake, but it's Democrat, it's not Pericles'. Democrat said so in his in vain first Olythic Word, that splendid reason, with which he was trying to convince the Athenians to fight Philip. If we do anciently, we can do it right. After ancient times, in modern times. Mr Giannis Varoufakis, President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group. Here, Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, because the Prime Minister started by announcing the return to a more normal parliamentary system, and I will be allowed, ladies and gentlemen, to remind you that you have chosen to deviate from parliamentary normality. And you did, rejecting Mera25's proposal for a teleconference with a full composition of the House. Neither close nor what we had, this sequence of legislative acts and the half-empty or almost full-time parliamentary leave. The Prime Minister referred to the British Parliament and I am very pleased that he did so. Only he made a mistake in the timing of his report, for he referred to World War II. He didn't mention today. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a more traditional, more typological parliament than the Lords House? The House of Lords operates in full teleconferencing. The House of Commons, with a minimum lively presence and the rest of the Members of Parliament by teleconferencing. We proposed this, and you rejected it by choosing the sequence of PPPs by choosing a derogation from normality. You had no reason to do this. If we, as Mer25, can have a teleconferencing conference with two hundred and three hundred, there is no doubt that the House could. The European Parliament, which has many more Members of Parliament, operates normally at a teleconferencing conference. It was your choice. It is never too late, ladies and gentlemen of the House, to do so now like the British Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time of threat to Hellenism, a debate like today is very important. It was very positive that the Prime Minister decided to tell us about the issues of economic pandemic, economic collapse. However, in order for this debate to have substance, there must be a specific reference to the situation in which we are in, but also to a specific reference to a specific plan of exit from the crisis, or at least to the stirring up of the shoulder wave of this crisis. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister did not make any specific reference either to the situation that we are facing or to the exit plan. Your word, Prime Minister - if you can hear me - represents the triumph of propaganda on the truth, which only as an election presence you have tried to pass today. You made a speech, Prime Minister, reminiscent of an open election term gathering. You said at the end of your speech that you speak only the language of the truth. Let's see how we mean the truth, because I'll remind you that when Orwell in his "1984 novel" wanted to talk about the propaganda and its toughest enforcement, he left it at the Ministry of Truth. I will ask you a simple question, which I have put to Mr Stakoura, but I would like to hear the Prime Minister answer specifically to that in his own language of truth. Has national income been reduced or not in the last quarter of 2019? Simple question. Has the national income been reduced even further or not by January and February that passed us? I ask this because the Prime Minister said - and quite rightly so - that the crisis is global, as it was in 2008. Yes, Mr. Mitsotakis, the crisis is global, as it was in 2008, but this crisis comes to strike a Greece, which was already falling before the virus and which never recovered under the Memorandum Policies that you inherited from SYRIZA. Prime Minister, a government, pretending that the economy was going great and that we were in development, is not a government that can manage the great deterioration of the recession, which you refused to have existed despite the fact that it existed. But let's talk with numbers. We wanted to hear numbers from you. We wanted you to tell us where we are, where we come from and how we will deal with it. Since you do not, let me give you our figures on behalf of Mera25, because here we are, here you are, here we will also be, in two years' time and in two years' time and we will have to stay written and tabled in the Minutes of this House the figures, which we too consider to be reflecting the crisis, which comes and prejudices for the measures we need to take. We believe that, at best, GDP in 2020 will fall from about 190 billion to 162 billion. In mid-March I was talking about recession, at best in cases, minus 10%, and then some of you swamped me. The International Monetary Fund three weeks later came out and confirmed it. I said: at best. Today, my appreciation is this and I testify to it, and I hope I'm wrong. I tell you that the figures show that on average, we need to estimate about 162 billion falls from 190 billion. We are talking about minus 14% - 15%, with a budget deficit this year, Mr Mitsotakis, Mr Stakoura, at least 16 billion, which means that at the end of the year the debt will have been slashed to 222% of GDP. For 2021 make your own assessments and deposit them. I'll tell you my assessment and make a comparison at the end of 2021 and 2022, when we'll gather the evidence. We believe that without the harsh austerity, which we obviously think you have already accepted, in 2021 of the 162 billion-dollar income that we will have this year will go to 170 billion. In other words, at best, there will be a recovery of 5%. This will, of course, leave us alone with 170 billion in 2021, compared with the 192 billion GDP last year. In this case, you will have a budget deficit of 10 billion a year next year. If, however, there is austerity - and I will explain why you have already been exposed to it - we will be talking about a GDP at the end of 2021 of the order of only 165 billion, that is, with this austerity, there will be a growth in 2021 - growth - a'rebund' in the basketball language - not more than 1.8% -2% and a State budget deficit of 12 billion. In other words, plus - except for the next eight to nine years, on the basis of what we have as data today, this country faces a budget gap to a minimum at best at the best of 60 billion. That was why the Eurobond you were asking for was important. Because the Eurobond is a form of debt restructuring, the transfer of national debt to the European level, so that these 60 billion at least are not charged to the Greek State, the Greek debt and the state budget and go into the euro zone. That was the essence of the Eurobond. The Eurobond does two things. Firstly, it transfers from the state budget to the European level, which has hit a portion of this unbearable debt at European level, and secondly, because of this transfer reduces the time value, the total amount of debt, the net present value of the euro area's public debt due to this restructuring. That was the importance of the Eurobond and I am very glad - you know, you have heard me say it - that you also embraced the Eurobond after so many years that some of us are talking about Eurobonds and that our language has haired. The Eurobond was the only way to avoid austerity, which will impose on you, which will impose on any Memorandum Government. It was the only way to have a chance of a serious recovery after these grim figures I referred to. Unfortunately, by sending Mr Stavoura to the Eurogroup teleconferencing on 9 April with an explicit mandate and, in fact, with an announcement before the Eurogroup of 9 April in this Chamber that it will not be 'Varoufakis' and that it will not veto that Eurogroup, you have actually sold the Eurobond. The Eurobond ended that day. On 25 April, when you went to the teleconferencing conference of the European summit, you went to bury it, to say 'final' and replace it with the fig sheet, to which you referred, the Recovery Fund, for which I will say two words in a very short time. In those days, April 9th and April 25th, because you had released the veto before entering the teleconference, Mr. Mitsotakis, Mr. Stavoura, you remembered turkey, consenting to Christmas with an ethnic style. Today you come to speak and report to the recovery fund. Mr Mitsotakis, I hope you know - I am sure you will know - that there is no such fund. This fund is a fig sheet. Let's see what they've already announced. They have not finished it, but they have announced - and you have agreed - some basic principles of this fund. The first principle is that there will not be a single euro in it. There will be absolutely no guarantee of this recovery fund, not a single euro. What you are calling for, and what you have decided to do, is to give 0.6% of European GDP in the form of guarantees to the European Commission, so that the European Commission can borrow around 250 billion - at best - from the markets, with our own guarantees, guarantees from the Member States. That's what you did. How did it come from the 250-300 billion to 1 and 1.5 trillion, when I heard Mr. Jedilloni speak the day before yesterday? How are they going there? Leverage. In other words, you are giving the European Commission the opportunity to get a loan, which will use it as a guarantee for a second loan on the first loan! Mr Mitsotakis, you know that this is the policy and tactics of LEHMAN BROTHERS. Remember, you've heard of CDOs squared, CDOs2, structured bonds, which within it has structured bonds. That's what you decided you'd do. Do you know what the tragedy is now? That the European Union, the summit, decided on this, put itself in an incredible dilemma. On the one hand, this will raise money, but it will be toxic, as it will be based on loans based on loans and a great deal of money, but I do not believe it will be, because the private sector will not lend a second loan on the European Commission's already committed loans, given the damage that the private sector has. But even if they do, they will only come in the form of loans to businesses and states. In other words, what you said quite rightly - I was very pleased to hear your statements on the day of 25 April - is what we have been saying for too long that loans do not help the South, do not help the poor, do not help the bankrupt businesses, nor the Greeks, nor the Italians, or the Dutch. You said that, well done, I agree. But know that a fund, which is filled with money on the basis of loans built on loans on guarantees, can only give loans. So, in your own words, this is a great failure. Nor would Lehman BROTHERS - and I say this once again - have such a courage as the German Government and the Dutch Government, which impose such a toxic fund on the rest of the European Union, which will either be toxic or toxic. That is the dilemma on which they have put the European Union, but to which you have consented. How did you agree? Don't veto. I have heard Mr Tsipras drop you before, as part of what you did not do at the summit. Mr. Tsipras, would you veto in case you were Prime Minister on 25 April? Would you say that we are not leaving here without a Eurobond? If you would do it on April 25th, why didn't you do it before? Or do you continue to insist that in the summer of 2015 you saved the country by saying "yes" to the third and later fourth memorandum? Once again, Prime Minister, since 2010 - and much more now - as a country we have a simple choice, difficult but simple. When you have been bankrupt, you have made a deep restructuring of the debt, a cut in public debt - perpetual bonuses, we have been talking about and mocking us, and now they say it - the interconnection of repayments with the growth of the gross national product - all this is part of the debt restructuring - or, therefore, of such a deep debt restructuring - that is, what you have seen - whether you are now accepting an inhumane fifth memorandum. I should like to point out once again - second time in this Chamber, but we must do so, because this is our national duty in all the wings of this Parliament - this: when you have the German Foreign Minister, Mr Haikh Maas, it refers to the troika and its tools as torment tools, I should like to remind you of what I said in 2015, and you also broke me into a memorial here and the foreign troika. I had spoken about the Troika process, the Memorandum Process, as a virtual fiscal drowning. I was more noble. The German Foreign Minister today goes out and says and admits that what happened in Greece was the application of torture tools. Aren't you going to use that? The German Foreign Minister has given you such a huge amount. What are you going to say? Will you say what you said in 2015, that they were doing and shut down the liquidity because we were calling for debt restructuring, which was necessary in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2015 and especially today? Prime Minister, you are pleased that there are no prerequisites for new loans from the ESM or, more indirectly, through markets with the support of the Greek State bonds from the European Central Bank. I'm sure there's no prerequisites. Residents? Do you think there will be no commuters this time in two years? Do you think that we will have reached a minimum of 15% of the government budget of the year and that the enhanced surveillance - in other words, the troika - will not tell you this? "Come here, Mr. Stakoura. Here you have agreed 3.5% of the primary surplus. Okay, we won't ask for that. We have a great disaster. But come here. Won't we go from minus 15 to minus 5?" These are ten units of GDP of austerity measures. These are the things that you have condemned the country, having called on the nonsense of the Eurogroup of 9 April and the toxic fund, instead of the Eurobond of 25 April. You tell me. You may think that the European Central Bank can do so. This is a political decision. He can transfer our loans, buy on the secondary markets tens of billions of Greek bonds, without a post-paid bond. There's that possibility. Prime Minister, please get up here very much in your dentext, in this step, and say: 'I believe that this will be the case, that the European Union understands the difficulty in which we are in, will lend us from the ESM, we will reach 220-225% of debt as a percentage of GDP, we will have a huge budget deficit and will not come to demand post-demand, because the European Central Bank will transfer these debts'. Come and say it. I tell you that this is not going to happen, and I tell you for a simple reason. Mrs Merkel announced it,'schwarze Null', when the German state returned to the small but surplus budget. Tell me. Is there a possibility that the German political system, which will in fact bring its own people to a great deal of trouble, will allow you to be at a minimum of 15%, minus 10%, to let growth stifle this debt and this deficit? Tell me. I'm telling you there's no chance. They're going to Rome, they're going to Madrid, they're coming here to Athens, and they're going to require a hard retired person. It is a very irresponsible question not to answer this question and, in particular, 'yes' or 'yes'. And if 'yes', what these post-migrants will be, what will be the rate of GDP, the austerity they will require. Tell us. We won't blame you for that. Make a prediction that this is what we have to do, a national plan for what we are waiting for. The worst thing that awaits us, when we're done with the virus, at good time, will be the austerity measures and the transferees. Tell us your appreciation of what these will be, tell us what your tolerances will be against this troika, which will come and demand them. It is highly irresponsible to rejoice in what you have brought us today as positive news, namely that the European Central Bank accepts - it says - the Greek Treasury bonds and that the banks will get more easily liquid from the European Central Bank. Under normal circumstances this is very good. I repeat, under normal circumstances. The circumstances are not normal. The banks ended after this collapse of private sector incomes, triple, quadruple, fivefold the flow of red loans, which is now being observed. You know it's done. The banks are bankrupt. They had never escaped bankruptcy, but now it is now quite clear that a new recapitalisation is needed. I would like to ask you a question: What helps the fact that they take the bonds of the Greek State and find liquidity from Frankfurt? Liquidity - you know it now, and you say it, cowardly - cowardly, smack, well done - it doesn't help the bankrupt. What helps the Greek State, which is deeply bankrupt - did I tell you what the figures are - to get cheaper or cheaper loans from the ESM? So - I will say it once again - as a country we have a simple choice, whether you are in the government, whether it is Mr Tsipras, whether it is Mr Velopoulos or the JRC. It doesn't matter. The choice is: Restructuring or Fifth Memorandum. Third way, there's no way. Restructuring or the ‘leaf tree’ of the ESM and the European Central Bank, on which you appear to be based. That's why, when you talk about horny "leaf tree", at the house of the hanged man, you know what we shouldn't talk about. The "leaf tree" is what will keep you alive, under the terms of the post-trainers, who come on their behalf. Prime Minister, I will put, beyond our party controversy - seven specific questions, very technically, very technically, beyond ideological differences. I think that, before we deal with our ideological conflicts, we should have information. We need to know what the situation is - I spoke a little bit about what the situation is - but also about what the government's intentions are in terms of figures. Mr. Stavoura, Mr. Mitsotakis, how much do we have to borrow this year? Over the years 2020, how much do we borrow? What is your Ministry's prediction, Mr. Stakoura, of how much we'll borrow in 2021? What will be the ratio between the ESS and the bonds you have issued because the European Central Bank buys them? I would like an answer, a comprehensive answer - tell me so much - because I want to write it, to remember it. I might learn things from it. Second, do you intend to reduce the wages in the public sector? There may be reasoning to do this. We'll be against it. But we would like you to tell us. Do you intend, given the deficit in the state budget and the troika, which awaits us around the corner, to reduce the wages in the public sector? In the private sector, what are you going to do with the minimum wage, with the collective agreements? That's the third question. Fourth question: Pensions. What are you going to do? What's your thoughts? May answer dependants. You tell us, if it is so much the fall in GDP, if it is so the government budget deficit, I will do this in pensions. But tell us. Fifthly, I asked it again, but I will put it in the context of the seven questions. What do you think will be the austerity brought by your slogan regarding the Eurobond at the summit? Will it be 5% of GDP, 3% of GDP, 10% of GDP, 15% of GDP? What austerity do you expect the enhanced surveillance, the troika of time? Sixth: Banks will be recapitalised. There's no other way. "HERAKLIS" is over. Efforts to resolute through the "ERAKI" veterans. I don't have to explain it any more. This is what happens when you rely on a market that collapsed to restructure the banks. It collapsed, for the simple reason that - as I said before - we have a multiplication of red loans. Banks will be stacked, in other words, as was done in 2012-2013 on the government of Samaras - Venizelos. When 60% -70% of the shares were taken through the Financial Stability Fund, the banks were effectively destabilised. Do you agree? Secondly, will it be done again, as Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos have done, with shares without voting? Again, will you strengthen the bankers - which is not even Greek at the moment - without the public having control over the decisions of the boards of directors? The answer I ask is specific. Finally, what are you going to do about HERAKLE? I'm telling you, and I'm telling you again. Yes, I do. "HERAKLIS" is over. It cannot achieve that purpose, for which you have legislated it. There is no possibility that banks will be liquidated, ceased to be bankrupt and to avoid recapitalisation through the ERAKLE. Bring an act of legislation on which we at Mera25 - I think others - will go out and applaud the streets - not the streets, in here, by teleconferencing we will applaud, to keep the social distances - for the "fresh" of the "HRAKLI". Answer me specifically - I have before me, Mr Mitsotakis - hereafter: If you do not freeze him, as we say, will this amount of 12 billion guarantees or not be activated? According to the law - we have read it very well - if for three consecutive months the funds that have bought the red loans from the banks do not collect a minimum amount from the borrowers - which is certain they will not collect it because of a coronary - then they will have the right to come to you and force you to get 12 billion from the "cushion" - from the ESM that is to say - to give it to the "rapid" funds from Delauer and New Jersey. You will not give it to the banks, or to the borrowers, or to the Greek society that is currently facing a new, huge crisis. Who's the one that stops you from freezing it? Because if you do not respond to me, as you do not respond systematically all these weeks - two months now - we will continue to say that the only reasonable explanation is specific interests, which are binding on you and do not allow you to do what is the absolute logic, namely 'frozen' a 'HRAKLE', which will get a new debt to add it to the shoulders of the Greek public, the Greek citizens, the Greek taxpayers in favour of the 'hard' funds. I hope you will answer these seven questions in your dentistry. I fear that you will not answer these questions, which means that, in fact, you have chosen the way for the elections, for the simple reason that it is the only way to go through the fifth memorandum, as the previous governments have done. We'll be ready. The proposals of Mera25 are very specific. We have begun to develop them and put them in the public debate and here as early as 10 March. It is seven plus one and let me report to you very quickly. First, massive, deep haircuts. Deferring taxes, contributions and payments has never helped anyone bankrupt. Big, deep haircuts. I've said it since March 10th in here. There's still a prepayment of business tax. I imagine Mr Stavros will make a reduction of this today. Not doing this reduction to zero, that you haven't done it a month now, it's a joke, Mr. Stakoura. Today are you still talking about tax prepayments, the 2021 tax on the basis of the calculation of the revenues of 2019 that are currently not and will not exist in 2021? Secondly, we had requested debit cards with EUR 300 each, numbered, for at least three hundred thousand families of the poorest Greeks who are unpaid and will not get one of the 700 euros, of the 800 euros, of the 500 euros. Third: Do you want to give loans? Some loans must also be provided. We understand that. To be dependent, to be contingent loans. You give a loan to a company and you get it back only if its profits exceed a certain level and the rate of repayment is proportional to the rate of profit growth. If they do not reach a certain level of debt, within the loan contract you will have given the subordinated loan, the debt is actually derecognised. Fourthly, 'HARAKLI''', a public private debt management company, like the one we have proposed from the outset as Mer25. He was in our election program of July. And to God, let the ideas that they will lose their homes, but they will stay inside with a subsidized rent. The only solution today is to maintain property rights even at the rate that has been paid back - even small - by borrowers, with a lease, with a lease to the public private debt management company, until they start paying them back, so that people have the hope that some time they will be able to do so. Part of this, of course, is, once the HERAKLIS has finished, the statification of the banks, which will be done by holding the government - your government, which is the government - the right to control the operations of the banks. In other words, do not dare do what Samara - Venizelou government has done to get shares without a vote. This will be a second crime, which will be added to that of 2012-2013. Fifth, structural changes: are you not in favour of structural changes? Get a serious competition committee to check the shamefulness of supermarkets and other businesses, who manage to collect and obtain unacceptable income, in the midst of a pandemic. Six, for the farmers. The state must become the buyer of the last moment, in order to keep the crops at a level, so that, when the coronary is gone, it has left the agricultural sector, so that we do not have even greater precipitation of this sector. Seven. Lawyers, professionals, architects, people of art. There should be a public payment system based on market tax units. The so-called credit rating units. I don't have time to develop it and I won't. These are the seven policies that we are proposing for within the country. None of this is going to work, since we are in the situation of enhanced surveillance of the Troika, unless there is a veto in the EU budget - you have the right to do so - if there is no provision for something that is equivalent to the Eurobond. If you allow the fifth memorandum to bring the country to even greater depths of its debt-government, you will be accountable, as were the previous Prime Ministers of yours. Prime Minister, this is where I think we'll agree. At difficult times each government needs a mature people. A people consciously, conscious of the common interest. A people who trust his government and be ready for personal sacrifices for the common good. You need citizens who, despite the great personal suffering they face, carry out, as they are doing today, acts of touching generosity. Today, you still have this people as government. As we had him in the first five months of 2015. But if you continue to have him you must give specific answers to the seven questions I asked you. To continue to have him at your side, at these difficult times, just like - and you did well - reject the immunity of the herd, you must reject the reasoning of the herd in which your communication staff is pushing you. Judging by your current position here in the House, which I have heard very carefully, I do not see that you can keep this people close to you for a long time. You have already started to grasp the great words of all the Memorandum Prime Ministers before they take the big loans. This great people, Prime Minister, these citizens deserve better than the summer capturing of 2015 and your own capturing, five years later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u24	After we prepare ourselves properly, we will enter the secondarys, which are half the time warranted. Not the abuser. Since we have a few seconds, Mr. Varoufakis, to tell you that I do not monitor the House of Lords, because it forbids me from Article 4 of the Constitution, as Mr. Gerapitris knows. But I am watching the House of Commons. It's seven hundred years old. As you quite rightly said, today in the six hundred fifty, they have fifty present and a hundred by teleconferencing. They don't have the remaining five hundred with a teleconferencing. However, we are listening to you and we are all discussing the Conference of Presidents without being smart. I never imagined, when I became President of Parliament, that I would speak with doctors more than with the directors of legislative work and parliamentary control. I'm talking to doctors more. It's an emergency treaty. We put a teleconferencing conference on the environment bill. Heard there was no consultation. Twenty-five bodies have been heard for eight hours. The Rules of Procedure provide for ten bodies. Twenty-five bodies have been heard. In plenary, now that the market opens, we will make the necessary supplies. Plenary was not prepared, such as the Senate, for conferences and such a telecom service. In a few days' time, we will be able to participate better than the British Parliament in a number of e-conferences, not alive, than two hundred Members at the same time. So we do. We were just not born to manage this. The President of the New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has the floor for his denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u25	If I understood correctly, Mr Varoufakis, what you are charging Mr. Tsipras was that he did not fully insist on the strategy of the big bluff and did an impressive asshole, which loaded us with the third memorandum, went bankrupt and led the country to a protracted austerity, while the world economy was going very well. What would've happened if it hadn't happened to that stupid fucker, we'd never know about it. In any case, the twin Tsipras - Varoufakis proved to be destructive and traumatic for the country. It is good to remember and remind us both of what happened in the first half of 2015. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr President, at the beginning of the epidemiological crisis, the Greek Government used the slogan "we wait at home" to convince Greek citizens that we need to change our behaviour. I believe it is a slogan that the citizens embraced, understood and served. Listening to Mr. Tsipras' position, I thought a different version would suit you very well. 'we remain the same'. Same and unchanging. This is Tsipras and SYRIZA, whom we have heard today. It is a party which cannot make any substantial self-criticism. It is a party, which does not have the courage to recognise that the country has achieved something that has escaped from usual. It is a party, which does not have the courage to give credit to the Greek people, but yes, to the government and the state - because the state is identical to the government - the fact that things have happened over the last two months, which, if anything, is unusual in our country. In this way you do not minimize the government, you do not minimize me personally, you do not minimize the National Representation. You minimize the country as a whole. I would expect your tone today and your way of greater braveness and recognition of what the country has achieved in tackling the health crisis. You have used the term'self'. All that's happened in the past two months has been about self-evident. Right - I will say, and I have done so many times in my speech too - you have first credited the Greek people, who have fully complied with the suggestions of the special and political leadership, has shown solidarity. The Greek citizen accepted a significant discount on his individual freedoms to serve the whole good. The great thank you belongs primarily to Greek citizens. But no, Mr. Tsipras. None of what happened in the last two months was self-evident. It was not obvious that we made a decision before we had the first case in Greece. For example, to cancel the carnival events in Patras. It was not self-evident that we dared, much earlier than many other European countries, to close schools, book shops, pay a large financial cost, because we saw what was happening. It was not self-evident that we succeeded and built a single message, which we contacted the citizens. The citizens have heard this message in a substantial way. It was not self-evident that in forty-eight hours the Department of Digital Policy managed and created an application with sms so that citizens could not only use the paper, but also use the messages to communicate the reasons they invoke to get out of the house. It was not self-evident that huge digital leaps were made in the crisis, such as intangible e-prescription. If they were so self-evident, why didn't you guys do it all this time? None of this was self-evident. If you compare the performance of Greece with other European countries, you will find that other European countries, such as Spain, in which you are a party, with which you are a brother, the notorious Podemos, have been far behind in taking these decisions, for which you may know better, and the result is what we are seeing today. I am going to pay tribute first and foremost to the Greek people, but I am not going to accept that dealing with the crisis by the government and the state mechanism was about set, as if it were on the autopilot. I imagine, Mr Tsipras, that you too have heard the whispers in society, which is called underground, but often and out loudly: 'What if...'. What if that's the way it would be? We'll never know. Luckily, I'd say. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Please, I understand that your word is sometimes the mirror of your political embarrassment. But a little more recognition of this great effort, which has been made not by the government but by the state as a whole, I think it would be more appropriate to what Greek citizens feel today. I don't want to leave two remarks of interest to me. One is the use of the word 'integralism'. I will address here and the President of Parliament, who is particularly interested in history, but also worthy of Central Left officials, who I think are aware of the importance of words. When the word "integralism" is used in the literature of political science, it refers to very specific regimes, such as Nazi Germany, to what Stalin did, to North Korea, possibly. Be a little careful in this Chamber when we use words with such a heavy burden. They neither honour our democracy nor the great effort which we are all doing here, so that we can - I have listened very carefully to all the political leaders - find a common place and a common area of understanding, because that is what society requires. Let us come back to one reason, which - it is my personal assessment, perhaps I am mistaken - gives a certain perception that 'we will wait for you at the corner of the first failure, when you fail, to shoot you'. That's what I understood, I may have understood wrong, but after all - I'm not the final judge. But when we face a huge health and economic crisis, we do not serve this new climate, which we want to build. In any case, my personal view is that society has gone very far ahead of these logics and whoever chooses to follow such a reason will simply be out of season. I now come to a number of specific points. I will start with health and then go to the economic issues. Tests, masks, schools: three topics which have dealt with the public debate and which have also been discussed. I will start by saying that this government has served a policy which has taken the scientific data very seriously. That's what we've done since the beginning, that's what we're still doing right now. I would like to point out, of course, that unlike doctrines and magicians, science does not possess infallibility, nor does it always consider that what it says is by definition correct. Perhaps, something science can say, come other data then and question it. Hence for very difficult choices, which we must take, there is not always absolute agreement everywhere, of all sciences. We are not the only ones dealing with this problem. All the countries of the world are facing it, which are moving towards a gradual de-escalation of drastic measures, which we have taken. Our test strategy has been recommended by the Committee on Sciences and so far, at least, it is a strategy which has proved to be correct in principle. We have chosen to test only those that our committee has indicated that we should test. The number of tests, obviously for the next day, needs to be increased and communications have already been made by the Ministry responsible on how to do this. I am not only talking about molecular tests, which can diagnose the virus while it is alive and possibly even before symptoms occur, but I am referring to serological tests, which can possibly tell us two things, if you have passed the virus and have antibodies, or if you have the virus at that time, and may be conditional, but not with the same accuracy, of the molecular control tests. We have made a choice, in terms of antibodies tests, to wait a little while, so that we do not rush to obtain a test of dubious effectiveness and we did well. Because other countries, which have rushed to do so, have found that they have found themselves with a test which they have not been very precise, and thus cast doubt on the data they need to carry out a policy. Now that we know and have the committee's recommendations, we will obtain such tests, on a chronological basis, in a large number, and, indeed, we will be able next week to announce details and that will be done by private donation. The state budget for the first large batch of antibodies tests will not be imposed, which we will need to do. In any case, we all know - and this applies to all countries in the world - that cases which have been officially diagnosed are much less than actual cases. We know this, it applies to all countries in the world, it is not only the case in Greece. In Greece, the real cases are far more than two thousand four hundred cases, which we have identified. However, if the spread of the epidemic was much more silent and much more intense, we would see that in our hospitals, in our intensive and unfortunately, in the most tragic indicator of all, which is the number of people who are losing their lives. These are the indicators that we need to observe, these are the indicators that we are observing, and precisely because we are observing these indicators with great attention, we know that we have managed to limit the epidemic to a minimum. I would also like to say that Greece was and remains one of the very few countries, which continued throughout this epidemic to track, the so-called 'contact trading'. The Civil Protection did so and it does so very effectively. In many other countries, they have exceeded their data and have not been able to do so. We will continue to do so and indeed in the 'contact trading' we need to be able to carry out more tests and I believe that soon, perhaps within the next month, we can also have creditworthy tests, which means that we will not have to wait a few hours, so that we can have the result, but perhaps at the primary level, this test can also be done within ten-15 minutes to have a reliable one - I stress it: credible - answer. So this is in terms of the test strategy. The final measure to deal with an epidemic is not the number of tests, it is the other indicators I have talked about. From the beginning, the aim of the government was one: to limit the number of our fellow citizens, who at the same time will need to come to our hospitals, they will need to be intensive. Because only in this way could we limit human losses. This is something that we have achieved, something that is recognised worldwide, is conquest for the country. It is a conquest for the country, after ten years of suffering to finally have many positive publications for Greece. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You don't show satisfaction with that. You're ejecting a misery, like this is bad for our country. You're wrong, Mr. Tsipras! You're wrong with this policy. It is good for the country to be able to cope with the health crisis in confidence reserves right now. And it's definitely good for the Greek society. It is good for Greeks to feel contentment and pride. We haven't felt these feelings in a while. Sure, the hard stuff is ahead of us. I will not disagree with Mr. Varoufakis on this. The difficult things are ahead of us, and the great challenge is to keep the core of these positive emotions at an hour, which will be more intense in a deep economic crisis. I know it's not easy, but that's the challenge. It is a challenge that concerns all of us, not just the government. I now come to the subject of masks. Look, with the masks, we fully followed the recommendations of the Health Committee. While we were locked in the houses, the masks weren't necessary. It is now necessary - I will stress this - only as a supplementary measure. The committee keeps saying that. It is not a substitute for individual hygiene, it is not a substitute for distances, it is not a substitute for not coughing and not sneeze on others. It's a supplementary measure. And the committee has clearly explained where the use of the mask is compulsory and where the use of the mask is optional or in any case there is a strict recommendation. In any case, I listen to the debates with care. I've heard Mrs. Gennamas in all this argument as to whether or not we should go to esteem. It is a reasonable question, and I do not get over it. I would like to say, however, that we had a similar debate - the Minister will remember - when the first deficiencies in antiseptics had been detected. We have then chosen not to go to a logic of strict pricing but to make strict recommendations on the volume of antiseptics that can be sold in supermarkets. Finally, the market itself, with our encouragement and great convenience, solved the problem. We have very large and significant production of domestic antiseptics in the country. There is an absolute possibility of meeting market needs and at very competitive prices. I think that's gonna be the same thing with the masks. The masks have the additional advantage of having a substitute, the textile cover, for which in the next few days, very clear instructions and TV spots will be given on how each Greek citizen can easily build a cloth cover and, above all, what are the conditions that he can use in absolute safety. If we see, together with the Minister, that there are market distortion phenomena and shameful speculation phenomena, which in any case the Ministry is hitting them, we are here to reassess our position. We do not consider it necessary at the present time. The fact that, yes, there are Greek companies - and not one - which very quickly came to fill the gap in the market and build masks is good. It's a substitute. The whole of the European Union is currently discussing how to replace a piece of protective equipment manufactured in China. In other words, we, Greek businessmen, did it here and did it very quickly. I will salute this effort. It is another possibility to enrich the market with more product. The more product there is, the less we are at risk of prices leaving upwards. Of course, I'd like to say one more thing. As a large part of these products remain imported, the valuation creates a very great risk that the imports of masks will be stopped and that we will be left with masks where we need them. I would also like to say that under no circumstances has the supply of hospitals and the critical infrastructure of the state, which must have access, not just to mere surgical masks, but also to the masks of increased protection. In fact, we recently supplied a large batch of FFP3, which are special masks only for intensive. These are available in hospitals. As I said to you, next week the Minister will present the donation framework fully, what we have, where we have it, how we have it. We have created a very modern logistics warehouse, with a very advanced system with absolute transparency and accountability, so that everyone knows what we have received and where it is directed. I now come to the question of schools. It is different to have a scientific disagreement on the issue of schools and completely different to create consciously and methodically a sense of insecurity in Greek society. Some newspapers, some insiders that are close to Census, do just that. It's gonna be a mistake to do it, and I'll tell you why it's gonna be a mistake to do it. At the moment, most countries - Italy is an exception - choose to gradually open their schools and do so because they know that there can be no return to normality, without open schools for many reasons, economic, social and psychological. It's not good, - those who have children or adolescents know it - children being at home all the time. There are therefore good reasons for opening up schools. We know more today than we knew two or three months ago. In fact, there was at the beginning of the epidemic the view - an estimate that children could be 'emotional bombs'. This view is no longer supported by a majority of scientists. The appreciation we have is not entirely proven, but this is the estimate that most experts seem to agree, and this is that children are getting harder and transmitting more difficult. In any case, we move on to open up schools, having ensured, as far as possible, less co-existence in quills, alternating access to courses on a single and even day basis. I believe that we have taken all the necessary steps to allow this opening by rules and conditions. In addition, the committee told us yesterday and said so in public. The suggestions we had accepted were for even faster opening up of schools. We put a brake on. We're keeping the elementary issue. I am not yet convinced that primary schools should open, for the simple reason that young children are more difficult to impose hygiene rules and it is harder in primary school to go to breaking classes than they are in high school and high school. We will see and consider the issue and make our final decisions on 20 May. I'm making an appeal. It is a question of having a scientific disagreement and it is a second issue - which I do not want to see - to see a political spiral on this issue. It would be wrong to do so, to create additional insecurity in children and parents. In any case, I would like to say something else. Closed schools are intensifying social inequality. Children who do not have access to the Internet or who have computers working too late, children who may have problems and tensions at home who do not have the possibility or support to be able to access telephony, children who go to some public schools, who may not have the necessary equipment are at a disadvantage, relative to children, who go to private schools, who may go further ahead at the moment or with some public schools, which have succeeded and adapted to these speeds. It is a great mistake over the closed schools to come and consolidate such social inequalities. We've made a political decision. I hear the criticism, but I would like to point out that it was unanimous - and I will say again, Mr Tsipras, it was unanimous - that the committee' s decision, which recommended the closure of schools when it was proposed and the opening up of schools, as we open them up. We don't do things on our head or experiments. I have also said from the outset that this process, this plan is a well thought-out plan. It's what the word says, it's a plan. We can monitor the data, we can see seven to fourteen days ahead and if we need to adjust the plan, here we are to examine and implement it. I have also said many times that opening up and returning to the new everyday life is more difficult than sitting at home and, yes, additional responsibility is needed. We don't throw the ball in society and we take our tail out. We didn't do it before, we don't do it now. Together we are in this effort. And it is certain that if there is no individual responsibility, there will be no good collective effect. It is not a question of transferring responsibility here: it is the state, it is the citizen's fault. We are all together in this great adventure together and together we will succeed or fail. If we fail, we'll have failed in total. Society will have failed, the government will have failed, we will have failed, we will all have failed. There will be no one who will come out and celebrate here on the ruins of a possible failure. No one can want that, and no one can wish it. There is a very dark world on the Internet today - very dark - who is battering and investing in national failure. Don't make this part of the political controversy. Don't do it! Let's leave it on the Internet tarts all these lousy trolls, which are coming today and sprinkling on a possible failure. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I now come to economic matters. I shall start by trying to make a bridge with what Mr Varoufakis said and with the questions he has asked me, which cannot be answered unless the first question is answered, how much will the recession be? If we do not know how much the recession will be, most of the other questions you have asked cannot therefore be answered. When we say that we do not know how much the recession is going to be today, but we certainly know that it will be heavy, that is based on a very simple presumption: we do not know how long the health crisis will last. We do not know today whether we will be able to have tourism in the summer and how much tourism we will have. We do not know whether there will be a second wave of the virus in October, which will allow us again to limit economic activity. We don't know! I wish we could predict. That is why a great deal of time is given to the possible recession. It is clever of your intelligence, Mr. Chief of Antipopulation, that because the Governor of the Bank of Greece said that anything more than 4% is my recession, so there is a Mitsotakis recession, which comes and sits on the organic recession. It's a little inconsistent with all that you're talking about. With the same logic, I could say that I get Mr Varoufakis' prediction of a 15% recession and anything less than the 15% recession is a success of Mitsotakis, because he has succeeded and reversed the recession. But are these serious arguments? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Do you not see that all the countries today - and countries, Mr Varoufakis, which did not go to hard lockdowns, like Sweden - have a very large economic impact, because it is quite simply a global recession of supply and demand at the same time? Yes, our country is more dependent - not as dependent as it may be - on tourism, which we know will be hit more. For all this, it's not the coronary, but it's the Mitsotakis and the government. Okay. If you believe it, that's how it will be. What can I tell you? In any case, our job here is to see how we can mitigate the recession, and how we can in 2021, Mr Varoufakis, not have a recovery of 1%, but to have a fragile and brave development, which will once again fill the public funds, shorten the deficit and will necessarily reduce our obligation to have an additional debt. The debt debate is an essential debate and all the work that is being done and the pressure that is being exerted at European level - because it is not only carried out by Greece - is being carried out by all the countries which have a great debt as a percentage of GDP, Greece has some specific features in its debt, and you know them better than us, it does not have strong and high financial needs for a decade - it is precisely not to add an additional national debt - I stress, a national debt that we have. That is why the great pressure on the recovery fund is more direct funding, subsidies, and less lending is a battle, which is given at European level. If you believe that a country can in itself give an answer to this question, then you are completely ignoring European balances. However, a pressure lever is being formed today so that the final result is certainly better than what it seemed to be a month ago. We have supported society, we have supported employment. I was amazed at what I heard, that we liberated the redundancies. But don't you know that redundancies were forbidden? You don't know that thing? When you say so, don't you know that? So, how do you say that thing? You say it ignorantly, do you say it to distort reality? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You can accuse us that this policy is not effective, that you have something else to suggest. It's your right. But you can't do the white one. These times are over. From there on, we have proposed a concrete and costly plan, with a lot of money, which is on the market. Today the eightcosari and the free professionals were paid. I'll close it down because I've already misused time. I have here your plan "We stay up", in which SYRIZA comes and says that "we want to do what we want to do" - to spend, to say it very simply -14.3 billion and to give security, liquidity, to operations of 12 billion". In both liquidity and guarantee, we do not disagree much. Somewhere nearby, they'll reach our numbers. But be careful over here. 14.3 billion intervention! Aren't you telling me, the money that will be missing from the state budget, from lack of revenue as a result of the crisis, which can be 8 to 10 billion, ever counted? I can't believe Mr. Tsakalotos has signed this table. I'm blocking it! I personally rule out it. Because the real cost of your intervention is not 14 billion, it is 25 billion. I mean your financial intervention. If the real cost is so great, then you know very well that cash is not enough to be able to support it. So you either have to be aggressively borrowed from the markets, at a rate that I do not know or have to break the frozen money, which you put aside for debt service. If you want to do this, please go out and say it: Yes, we want to get out of this money and possibly suffer the consequences of such a policy. We won't do that. We think it's necessary to keep reserves for the next day. I have heard several interesting proposals from Mrs Gennimata, many of which we are considering as measures for the next day. Let me tell you, of course, Mrs Gennamas, that because I carefully studied your programs, what you posted on the Internet, they had nothing to do with what you said today. You said completely new and different things. I've seen you overpaid benefits and expenses. However, I have heard some interesting proposals. I hear thoughts about what we're going to do with the advance payment of business. These are all measures considered by the financial staff. Whenever we are ready we will announce them, but we should always have an overview of how far the overall financial footprint of the interventions we are going to make. We need to know that the country still has access to the markets. As you have seen, we have recently been on the markets at a fairly satisfactory interest rate for the juncture. We therefore have an obligation to strengthen cash resources from there on, to prepare ourselves for the great counter-attack that we need to make in the second half of 2020 and, of course, in 2021, so that as soon as possible we can reverse the negative effects of this unprecedented crisis. I should like to close, Mr President, by repeating that the Government is always here and now to give substantiated answers, to recognise its mistakes whenever they are made. On the question of vouchers, we were the ones who took the programme back. We took it back because, in fact, this programme did not offer quality training to the freelance professionals who entered and spent tens of hours training. That's why the program got it back. The program was never an income substitute. It was income and at the same time it was possible for freelance professionals to acquire new skills. We got it back. In any case, the CEC market has not been created by us. We found it on the CEC market. This is the CEC market. To her, and you were giving a lot of money. It's not just us. And you were giving money to these C.E.C.s. And therefore, if, according to you, there is a suspicion of a scandal, it is much more burdensome to you than to us. Because we, after all, didn't give the money. You gave it to me. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But if it is a question of quality, that is why we took the programme back. I must also tell you that, having done enough research on this issue, I see that this market is a problematic market. It is a problematic market that needs to be corrected, which must be strictly guaranteed quality. It's a big mistake, going ahead, to devaluate the concept of teletraining as a whole. All our policy, not only our own but also the European Union, is based on the logic of acquiring new skills, largely through distance learning. We therefore have an obligation, as a government, to look structurally at how this market works and not to give the impression, which, unfortunately, has been spreading - and which has been spreading over the past few years, has not started this problem for your day, and you have not corrected it, we have an opportunity to correct it - that training is just a mechanism with which we share European money, benefits effectively, without any substantial added value to the final recipient of this training. We'll fix the training market, make it work properly. And this government will always have the courage to come to Parliament and when something is wrong to say "that was wrong, we fix it". Double mistake is not to have the courage to correct your mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u26	Mr Alexis Tsipras, Chief of Officerial Response and Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, is called at Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mitsotakis did not stand today - in his secondary speech he did not stand - and he took out his real self, showed his real feelings. Not only does it recognise the attitude they have shown all these days, I believe all the parties and, above all, the Civic Opposition, contrary to the way in which he was opposed to critical issues, nationally important issues, and with regard to the debt crisis and with regard to national issues, in particular the resolution of the dispute with the northern neighbours, which at the time, in fact, had adopted all the extreme criticism of ethnicism, and today applies what we have rightly decided - 1/10 of the responsibility shown by us today, to show you a better place - but it has not acknowledged anything about the responsibilities of your own party. They are responsibilities over time - and they were right to hear from other political leaders here today - not only for the great recession, 25% of GDP was lost in 2010-2014, but also for the time before, when you did, indeed, leave the country with a deficit of more than EUR 30 billion. Not only do you recognize your own responsibilities, but also in a disgusting way, you are trying to take the stand of the overwhelming majority of Greek citizens and parties who have put back from the pandemic in order to appear as a tropic, that all this has happened to you. Why? Because it was not self-evident, when all the countries, one after the other, throughout Europe and all around the world, were taking the same measures, you should take these measures too. So we owe our lives to you. Let's get you some candlesticks, let's do some tamas, give you a good time!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u28	The candle individually, Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u29	Personal, Mr President. I promise. But it is not serious about these things and it is not a serious and responsible leader's attitude, to try in such an obscure, provocative way to familiarize collective sacrifices. Yeah, it was obvious they had to shut down. I would remind you that on 23 March Greece became a lockdown. Belgium, which is the first country in number of victims throughout Europe - we are in position ten, the top ten, that is, that - with a similar population as us, was closed on 17 March. On March 13th, ten days before we closed everything, our neighbour Italy had a hundred and thirty three victims, and it was an alarm. Alone, if we didn't all move on to what had to be done and done, that's right. But I don't want to get into this pointless conversation. Because it is both meaningless and glorious and macabre to compare deaths, to compare deaths to deaths in other countries and, indeed, to imply that they are due to Spain, for example, because the Left prevails. Then, indeed, we should say that Albania and Bulgaria are the best countries in Europe, which have a smaller number of deaths than ours. That's a bad comparison. However, I shall return to the end of my speech, because something has been heard which I will not leave. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take advantage of most of the time of my secondary speech, particularly as regards the next day's issues. Because, now, the vast majority of people who have put their backs know that there is a big question about the next day, a great question about their lives, a great question about their work, their income. In fact, I would like to say that I have been very pleased to expect your speech, which you announced, at least, that you will make announcements on critical issues, that you will describe the next day the measures to support society, the economy, the workers, the free traders. But we did not hear something that makes us more optimistic today, leaving today's debate. Nothing specific at least. You just told us the recession would be great. You're not an economic commentator. You are the Prime Minister of the country, who has to appreciate what this recession will be and take steps so that it is not great. All I understand from what you have said is that you have Mr Stournara and Mr Varoufakis on the same level of appreciation. Hey, make Mr. Varoufakis Commander of the Bank of Greece if you like. Because you told us that it was intelligent - he says - when the Governor of the Bank of Greece predicts 4%, I think that I, as Chief of Officer Response, will consider anything more due to you. O Governor of the Bank of Greece, whose term of office you will be renewing. Don't laugh! You'll do that. Unless you don't. Say it. Go out and say what he says is airplanes. You come out and say that when the European Central Bank predicts more than 10%, when the OECD says that the country that will be most affected throughout Europe is Greece, we have a Governor of the Bank of Greece and says airplanes. Say it! But the recession that will hit us will be huge, precisely because you do not adopt a programme forwards, which will keep the real economy alive, which will keep the engine of small and medium-sized enterprises running so that it can reboot more easily. You came here and announced - the only essential news I think that came out today - the extension, the extension for only three months of the first home protection. And compared to today, after this unprecedented health crisis that has created unprecedented economic consequences - some are talking about our symmetrical, but also - our country champion - the biggest crisis facing the world economy since World War II certainly, perhaps even since the 1920s, you are coming and comparing the agreement that we had with the institutions, when the economy was running with 2.9 - so much you have received it - with what we are today, where it is absolutely clear that a new huge 'fusk' of red loans will be created next to the existing one. And you do that, and you know that we had a framework in which you agreed at that time. It can be proven - and it may prove - that there may be a need for more perimeter. However, we had taken an extension until the end of the year, so that by December 2019, from 1-1-2020, a sufficient framework for protecting the first home would be lodged. We had not received an extension to abolish protection. And you come today and you get a three-month extension. I will not criticize you for what you will bring. We'll see when you bring it. Why three months? In three months will the recession be saved and market problems are exhausted? There's some pressure, is there a deadline? We, indeed, had a deadline. The banks had to move to a pan-European level at stress test. And red loans were pushing their balance sheets. Now it's not going to happen anywhere stress test. So why do you retreat to this unbearable and inhuman pressure from the institutional side - which do not come out publicly to say so - that in times of coronary and recession, which will be unprecedented, we must lift the protection of first residence? And, of course, I would point out that the crucial issue is not only the protection of residence but also the new bankruptcy framework, the new bankruptcy law. Here I would like to hear a comment from you. Is it true that you're preparing a middle-class ventilation plan? What will be that framework? We have brought an amendment on several occasions so that there can be an extension by the end of the year. You have not accepted this amendment. Now you come and extend three months. Obviously, on 1 August - unless you prepare plans to escape until then - the problem will be here and you will have to respond to this problem. It's a major social problem. You come and say you've given 24 billion. Okay, if you gave her 24 billion, we're fine. We said 26 billion, that is, 14 and 12 guarantees. For two billion, we're going to ruin it? It's a good program. Where's that money? It's money to be announced on the news. But in real businesses and beneficiaries it has not even gone 1 euro. That's the money for the announcement! Even 1 euro, however, has not gone! The reality is that it shows how many truths they have received today the allowance of EUR 800, who and how many have received the EUR 600. The question has been raised - I think Mr Varoufakis has put it - for the tax advance. It is perfectly logical that this question should be raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Velopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u31	I am sorry, Mr President, I did not hear Mr Velopoulos. I wasn't in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u32	What can I say now? They're all copying us. We have raised the issue of tax advances. Finally!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u33	All right, you too. In any case, I would like to speak positively, not negatively. It is critical and reasonable to ask this question. Because a tourist company will have a drastic reduction in its incomes in 2020. Obviously, he will find it difficult to pay even the tax due in 2019. How will this company manage to make an advance on the basis of this income? Closed undertakings, suspended undertakings are obliged to pay municipal fees today. They have fixed and ruthless expenses. What are you going to do about it? The European Union has been given 138 billion for the strengthening and lending of small and medium-sized enterprises. What are you doing here? What will happen with the possibility of banks being able to borrow through the European Central Bank's extraordinary programme? Will this money be given to the real economy through guarantees, or will the banks continue to have the barrels closed and lend only to anyone who can prove that there is no need for borrowing? Because that's what's happening today! These are critical questions. He's waiting for the market world to hear it. Of course, the world of the market has seen many vulnerabilities. You have announced - it is one of the things that is well announced - that Mr Stagioras, on 17 March, is a 'fresh' of debt-sharing to the banks. It has never been legislated and the debtors continue to pay normally or "red" their loans. And the insults of the tax collector companies continue despite government assurances on the contrary. You went and suspended for seventy-five days on the post-paid checks, also creating an imbalance in the market. You have squeeze the truce on those who have the cheques in their hands, without predicting any advance from the banks only for very few of them, on the loans of the informed exporters. The large majority of small and medium-sized enterprises is the one, which remains excluded from the banking system. You have, in other words, given an extension only to the person who issues the cheques and not the bearer. These are huge issues and they want answers. You're telling us there's no redundancies. Do they hide your reality? Only in March there were forty-two thousand less recruits...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u34	Before the measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u35	Yeah, that's exactly what I'm telling you. Before the actual account comes. Because we are the only country in Europe to be subsidised from the suspension of labour. Obviously it cannot be a suspension and suspension and unemployment. But when these businesses come to work, to reboot, without any substantial support, redundancies will obviously be uncontrollable. It's not gonna be the small and medium-sized business to do that. Tell me now: How can a businessman who has a restaurant in the catering area and is forced now when the weather opens out, while he had four, keep the same number of workers he had? But is it possible to come here, as if you are from another country and criticize me above, which I tell you, with your policy, will the number of redundancies and unemployment be increased? Unless you want us to continue living in a virtual reality situation, only to see what they choose to show us the media and the site - which you are dedicatedly funding - and to save you all and say what good you are! With regard to the 'SURE' programme: obviously, and now you will change the tactics, because you could not even enter this programme. Because the European Union is setting up a work subsidisation programme rather than a job suspension subsidy. Now, of course, you'll cook it a little, you'll cover it up. You will say that the scheme, which we have created as an opportunity in the crisis, of rotating work, will become a stable, that is, half-work, half-wage wage and part of the wage will be paid by the employer and a piece will probably be provided by the European Union. Nice things! I could speak for hours and compare exactly what is going on in France, Sweden and Denmark. 100% is paid by France, 95% by Sweden, 75% by Denmark. But there are special population groups too. For example, there is the problem of farmers. Our programme, 'We're standing up', which you are constantly passing through, has had that logic. I mean, the logic of having a specific tank of fuel that's loaded. And leave that now that Chakaloto didn't sign it. And leave that disgraceful behavior behind. We ruled four and a half years and took the country out of the memos where you failed three times. And we have regulated the debt, and we have created the country's credibility internationally. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We have created the credibility that you have exhausted in just eight months, promising that through high-income tax reductions you will bring growth of 4%. And now the coroner saved you, of course, because you would say "it was the coroner's fault". But the truth is, for three consecutive quarters, since you received 2.9% growth, we had a slowdown. And the truth is that before the coronary came, at the beginning of 2020, you were 2 billion below the surplus target. So what will farmers do? How will farmers survive? Do you have a plan for farmers? We were saying that there should be non-refundable aid to specific industries, to tourism, to agricultural production, to small and medium-sized enterprises. You say, a returner and this returnee two years off, and then we'll see. We're listening to something about interest rates, which are taco-glyphics. So our logic, Mr Mitsotakis, is that when you have a tank that has fuel, so that you can get out of the storm, stand up, you have to use it and not exhaust it by making circles into the storm. That's what you guys do now. In culture there are thousands of workers and businesses. Summer season is vital to them. You made an announcement to cancel all the events. There was little support for these people even though many important people from Mickey Theodorakis to important composers and lyrics have come out and talked about strengthening the world of culture. It is obvious that the relationship you want to have with them is to use them as photographic decor in directed stigmats for communication purposes. But to support two hundred thousand people who are currently sinking into the crisis you have no plan. I'm hanging up with tourism. It contributes 20% to the country's GDP. Will there be any plan specific to social tourism programmes, even to strengthen internal tourism? If you have no plan and you are in "see and do" at least do not blame the opposition that does what is required, that is to say make you critical, and do not even bother with this criticism. I see Mr. Brutsi sitting there unspeakable. All right, here's what we're talking about. You came and accused SYRIZA. SYRIZA came to implement training programmes that you committed yourself to because the framework was 2014-2020, you know that because if he did not implement training programmes, he could not even disburse this money, but they were programs normally. And he did not give direct assignments to six owners of our friends who are related to our ministers' partners, but he gave social actors. You did not reply to me, however: are you comfortable that for three weeks your Minister, next to you, was taking him out on televisions while he had the letter I gave you from the Commissioner and lying to the Greek people, that these are good programs with some small flaws - now you said that they were disgusting - and that he could not do anything else because he had to distribute that money? He was lying and you're keeping the liar and the hybrid! So, what am I supposed to understand? To understand that you're so good at admitting your mistakes? You admit it, you'd have kicked him out. Or should I understand that you're afraid of getting him off the hook and saying things he shouldn't say? Don't forget to say about the masks. It's nice to stitch them up, but look at you, a luxurious family if you have to spend 10 euros a day finding masks, with incomes getting to the nadir, I think that's not a serious situation. And in any case, there must be appreciation. It's been six minutes, and now it's 1,2-1,6 euros each. And I come and close with this, so that I do not get too far, Mr President. I said that at the beginning of the position, Mr Mitsotakis, you have only been able to take off your true self, the unidentified one, who does not recognize the attitude of counterpopulation despite it as weakness. And you came here and said what you obviously spread it all over the Internet, "what would happen in this country if...". If what? If it was SYRIZA in the government, and it wasn't you, our savior? So I'll tell you what would happen. First of all, there would be no Minister for Development who, at the time of the crisis, would come out and say that it is the natural stimulus of the market that is greed and there is no need to quantify. There would have been no Minister who would have tweeted to advertise 5 euro lessons of ancient Greek when all of us had to have entered a solidarity regime. There would be no Minister to go out and exaggerate the Greek citizens who sit at their house and have no income that there would be three hundred pounds of them. There wouldn't be any Minister to set up work. The price of bed in private hospitals would not have risen from EUR 800 to EUR 1,600. They would not go 30m euros for tests to private individuals but go to the public institutions. We wouldn't have a Minister, like Mr. Brutsi, doing business with training centres and humiliating a hundred and fifty thousand scientists free professionals. We would have stood next to everyone not only in the sick but also in those who do not have the opportunity to look optimisticly at the future because they will not have income. We would apply what we across Europe would be subsidising work, enable the economy to be supported, yes, by the 'cushion' that we created from the sacrifices of the Greek people for an hour of need and not by keeping them, so that others, who will surely need it in the future - large businesses - can be financed, but small and medium-sized businesses, work and the world of work. That is what we would do and that is what the Greek people will judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u36	Mrs Fotini Gennimata, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister, you also referred to your prototype in the fact that citizens' confidence in the state has increased. Indeed. Like also, that national self-confidence has been strengthened and that there is a raft of optimism to the Greek people that we can make it. You have no doubt done your duty - we are not zeroing the work done, but obviously there are gaps, omissions, delays and mistakes - and we have undoubtedly contributed to this climate with our responsible attitude. But, Prime Minister, this seed we planted all this time needs watering to grow. And alas, I say this because, if we do not pay attention now, we do not do everything we need - and that is why we are constantly tabling all these proposals - the crisis that will follow will crush optimism and restore rage, insecurity and uncertainty. That is why I think this whole debate is completely cynical in the way it is being done on the issue of recession, because behind each unit there are padlocks, unemployment, cuts, poverty, despair. We must therefore all be much more careful, because if we do not succeed, that means opening the way to populism, to the extreme right and to a new division. So we all have a duty here, to the extent that each one of us is, depending on his role, to prevent this development in the country. So the fair distribution of burdens on the difficult things that are ahead of us must not just remain a reason for lack of content. It must be proved in practice with very specific measures and political options, with one objective, that the weaker ones do not pay the marble again. And our responsibility is precisely with our proposals to make sure that this does not happen. We are therefore committed to this objective. I want to say a few words about the resources. There is certainly no 'leaf tree'. But there are great opportunities today, above all, because, as you have said, because of the crisis and not for another reason, we are taking part in the QE. This gives us the possibility of liquidity at low interest rates. We must make use of them. The government must make the most of the resources from the ESDP and the European Investment Bank and the tools it gives us. And, of course, we must take advantage of the fact that there are no budgetary restrictions for 2020, as well as for the resources for 'SURE', which are not few, but we must demand that the level of the Union rise in the next period, because it is an important programme. So I come to the individual issues. As far as the auctions are concerned, I expected that in your dentistry you would at least accept, after giving this extension to the failed programme that I described before with details, our proposal for a cross-party committee. Instead, do you insist that you present another new plan, which you have discussed, Prime Minister? Just with the bankers? I insist and reintroduce it. We all agree in this Chamber. Go out now and say that we accept the proposal to be a intergroup committee, and all together to discuss and find a solution. It's one of the biggest problems, and we have it in front of us. And, of course, it is also the greatest proof that we have not left our commitments behind. We will be followed by the previous government's commitments to our children and grandchildren. Don't say what we want now. As far as labour is concerned, if it is not taken care now, we have a radical transformation of the terms and contracts of work in Greece. We will be talking about a wave, about a middle-aged job, about part-time with very low wages. We're hitting the alarm bell. You cannot allow that, and even with the signature, to happen to you. Secondly, you know very well, Prime Minister, that there are too many contracts that have been concluded and we have been asking you for some time now and we and the GFCM to legislate to extend them. Do it! You are well aware that it is not possible to open negotiations within this crisis for the renewal of contracts. Well, you'll have to take care of it. We have been calling you for so many months to declare the sectoral contract compulsory in foodism. It was about four hundred thousand workers, and with great trouble - I assure you, they have reached this agreement. The fact that you have not done so all the time today makes them even more vulnerable in the huge crisis that the industry is aware of. As far as pensions are concerned, we have been telling you all this time that you left about a hundred and twenty thousand pensioners pending the adoption of their pensions with no income. I must tell you, Prime Minister, that you received about a hundred and twenty-five thousand outstanding pensions and you managed in February before a crisis to raise this figure to sixty thousand two hundred. This is a 22% increase in outstanding pensions. Do you call that an effective policy? I call it incapacity. I come to the famous Easter bonus. We have asked you, and with an amendment that we have tabled, to extend to the police officers, to the officers of the Armed Forces who are on the front line all this time and to workers in social infrastructure. On 17 March you yourself, Prime Minister, in a dictionary you said that you would see to it that the police and commissioners in general are supported and that only gratitude can be left to words. But you haven't taken care of it. Just make sure they're cut off the allowance. Behold, the field of glorious glory! Be consistent with what you say in your own message. The people of culture are huge because it is clear that they will not be able to work for too long. What about all of them? We need a specific support plan for this sector and we have heard absolutely nothing. For voucher, I'm going to say two words, because what we're interested in is going forward. I was not going to go back to my dentistry again, but because you have again tried to drop the headlights and imply that others before Mr Tsipras are responsible, I must tell you that the scam is not about the centres of lifelong training, it is about the register on the platforms you have built and made within three days, your Government, not personally, but, in the end, you have the responsibility. Friday afternoon the notice came out to become the platform record, Sunday afternoon it expired and Monday morning as magically a tripartite committee had evaluated this whole story - within the weekend it all came to light - he read 100 thousand pages of educational material, ended up and made the register, in which you mandatoryly directed a hundred and eighty thousand scientists with the hidden instructions in the small letters that you know how to let the mouse run and turn the pages without doing anything at all, because you knew that the program is also a monkey. Apart from the scam that was set up, the program was on the basis of the "monkey" with the blessings and guidance of the Ministry. Many of those who took it worked on teleworked at the same time and knew much more than you tried to teach them. Surely the area of training centres needs upgrades and evaluation and certification and criteria in particular in the next period, which can play a very serious role, since many families will avoid sending their children abroad. So we are here to discuss how this is going to be done. But don't blame them for the set-up, because they didn't participate. So I come to health. Because we are going through the acute phase, as I have said before, in the difficult phase, which we need to coexist with the virus, the first thing we need to do is an integrated primary system. If that is not the case, we cannot achieve prevention and effective and timely treatment of people who will be ill in the next period. Monitoring, therefore, and effective care can only be done through a serious primary system and the serious primary system must have mobile workshops, must have home visits. For these mobile workshops and the integrated primary system all the structures currently in existence by the municipalities, certified individuals, and, of course, the many health centres that exist throughout Greece under the strict supervision of the EEAS, should be exploited. And because we now need to organise matters of public health and safety even better, it is clear that we must leave behind the dreams of many speeds of health, privileged for those who do not have one. That is what I hope definitively belong to in the past as designs. And in order to upgrade and regenerate the National Health System it takes before all resources. It also needs resources for the better organisation and reinforcement of hospitals and for the research that needs to be done at the same time. Resources for digital technology need to be allocated to public hospitals, permanent recruitment, for better infrastructure. It needs decentralisation in the administration and merit - at last! - and not a party. A specific plan is needed for the islands and the remote regions, and of course, a plan to tackle biological threats that are now being put into our lives. All of this must include a regeneration plan for the National Health System. I come to the refugee - immigration, because recent events in Samos must all activate us and mobilise us. It is clear that after the first phase, where with complete failure you tried to deal with the issue with authoritarianism and the orders on the islands, we went to a stage with promises from the competent ministers without a reflection, which only put oil on the fire. And I want to let you know that the soul warehouses have now become silicon warehouses. And as the fire in Samos showed, it's too easy for the fire to light up, not only this fire that we lived through. It's in the settlements, the problems are huge. Health has also been added to the humanitarian crisis. The issue needs to be addressed immediately, and it wants to be tackled immediately on the part of the government, but at last you have to give up voice abroad and change nothing in Europe's immigration policy. Because the countries of North and Central Europe have solved their problems, transferring the problem to us and enabling Turkey to constantly blackmail us in one way or another. And since I said Turkey, I cannot help but mention the fact that we must all be vigilant about the growing challenges and constant overcomings that are taking place above our country and say once again that Turkey's challenge is not a shortcut, but is part of its overall review policy, so our country should also have a clear national strategy with clear'red' lines. I have told you many times, Prime Minister. Because we are going back to the pace of everyday life - they are harder, but we are entering everyday life - not to leave these issues behind, they are extremely serious. We will continue to press and ask for institutional information from our representatives and the Committee on Foreign and Security on all developments in relation to Greek-Turkish. In closing, I want to report to both the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff. Here the world is burning, and unfortunately you have your hawaii! Maximus is constantly leaking election scenarios - for which you did not find a word in the seventy-five minutes that you were put to disprove - and Mr. Tsipras is pinching on the other side and starts several micro-groups - because his hair drowned is caught - and various tactics for supposedly progressive fronts. Listen, I've told you many times that we have drawn up a stable autonomous course and we're not going to change from it. We believe that this is exactly how we are useful to the Greek people and we are deeply committed to the expectations and hopes of the people seeking a different path, far from maintenance and populism. And this road exists, it is the way of the Movement of Change, the line of change! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u38	Good. Mr Koutsoubas, President of the KKE Parliamentary Group, is being called to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u39	Mr Mitsotakis, you may have chosen - especially in your dentistry - to enjoy yourself here with Mr Tsipras and to respond to a certain degree to these gifts with a banner, Mrs Gennimata and Mr Varoufakis - but our people are watching with real anxiety the next day and today, but mainly the next day. That is why, of course, we are not going to follow this cathode. Besides, that's what we've always done. We will try with arguments, as much as you disagree horizontally and vertically with the views of the Communist Party of Greece in here, as we always try to do, to analyse our positions, our proposals, and above all, addressing from this point of view the Step towards the Greek people who listens to us with real interest. In the last two months, you have all appeared almost all of you as late followers of the public system and of the workers in it, after you had taken care of shutting down hospitals, other health structures, cutting off budgets, labour rights. Even the legitimate demand for workers to join hospitals in heavy and unhealthy remembered it now. However, none of you who have so far ruled this place has dared so many years to do so, even though those who refer to it had ruled this place. It is precisely to ensure that there is a health shield, from the very beginning we have called for the recruitment of all the necessary health personnel, to equip hospitals with all means and infrastructure. We insisted on the requisition of the private health sector which had to - and must - enter under the responsibility and control of the State in order to ensure adequacy and resources and infrastructure, but above all compliance with the rules. If this had been done, phenomena like the waste of initial diagnostic tests that were carried out in the private sector would have been prevented according to the wallet, of course, or much more, the lack of protection in private structures that cost up to the life and health of our fellow human beings, as well as health in these structures. Of course, you have all rejected this order. In fact, you have reached the point where you are baptizing the rental of services by means of EOPYY contracts and even the undoubted, of course, as we all know, for the big-timers. This is what the New Democracy is doing, and that is what SYRIZA has proposed. From the very first moment, we also said that the necessary quarantine does not mean quarantine in the claim, in the voice of the people, means immovableness in general like what your Government wanted to impose and seek to impose with the contribution, unfortunately, of the Officerial Representation of SYRIZA - in the name of a falsified responsible for counter-population - but also with the assistance of some media which have actually imposed quarantine on the real information, devouring every voice that shows state gaps and shortcomings. Today, in the face of and in the gradual lifting of restrictive measures, the voice of the people, workers and their struggles for today and tomorrow must be heard much louder. The end of the quarantine will reveal even more the image, it will reveal that the public health sector remains intact. And let's say, Mr. Mitsotakis, that we now have a better public system. So what changed in two months in coronary conditions? Of course we know very well and the question is rhetorical. While there is a need for permanent staff of at least thirty thousand health recruitment, on the basis of the data and information provided by the competent bodies, only three thousand additional staff were recruited, only three hundred eighty-eighty doctors and two thousand six hundred ninety-two nursery and other health personnel. In fact, when you know that these thirty thousand that they need are behind the real needs, since in previous years thousands of hospital beds have been abolished, laboratories have closed down, even whole hospitals. IF beds, from five hundred fifty-seven before the epidemic, have now become seventy-seven-five. Of course, you are saying that your aim is to approach the European average of the thousands of two hundred beds ICU. However, this European Union average is below 50% of the IF beds that our country should have. It is this average that cost thousands of lives in European Union countries. It is this average that forced doctors in Europe and now, but also before the epidemic to be forced to choose who will live and who will die. The fact that the public health system is far behind even the daily needs of the people, far more than those of the pandemic, knows that millions of patients with chronic illnesses who have postponed treatments, even those who are under investigation. You know very well that in the new medical appointments the previous ones will be added and, of course, the public system will not be able to respond adequately. Therefore, these must be implemented immediately, that is what we are proposing. What to start with? For the privileges you have given - will we also insist - on the great employer? In order to allow for unilateral rotational work or for the possibility to impose free and unrestricted wage reductions by 50% for at least six months? In order to enable each undertaking to make the combined use of all flexible tools, that is to say, that it can unilaterally impose rotating work on part of its staff, suspend other workers' contracts of employment, combine this measure with teleworking with the same worker and whatever it likes, even transferring workers from one company to the other company in its group, but without safeguarding their rights? All these so-called extraordinary deep anti-corruption measures have come to stay, and this is what the workers themselves are saying, Mr Mitsotakis, are trying to keep safe, not only against the coronary, but at the same time also safe against all this immunity. They want to stay strong protecting their lives and their rights. And this fight cannot be carried forward for any distant future. It is carried out every day and has not stopped, if you want, nor at a time, because it is now that the public health system needs to be shielded and not tomorrow. Now the private health sector must be demanded and put under state control and planning and not tomorrow. Now we need to take protection measures at every place of work and not tomorrow. We must now strengthen the action to prevent the people from paying for the broken crisis, so as not to permanentize unpaid work, rotating work, teleworking and so much more and not tomorrow. All the so-called extraordinary anti-corruption measures that have passed into the pandemic by means of legislative acts must now be abolished to reload the burdens of the crisis to the Greek people. This is also the message of the racing events these days and of the Day Day tomorrow, of course in the special circumstances that the unions are organizing all over the country tomorrow. And, by the way, the responsibility and decision to celebrate the Dayton Day belong to the workers themselves, to their clubs and to their unions and not to the government, but to any government. So do not hide behind the sanitary staff. You have not even dared to say that, of course, you, Mr SYRIZA, to at least keep the arguments. The new account, gentlemen of the New Democracy, is that we will all pay the burdens of the new crisis fairly, he says, a way. Who are you trying to fool? Again, the workers who still pay for the cracks in the previous crisis. The truth, of course, is quite different. Your policy is a policy that strengthens the big capital against the vast majority of the people, which will continue to be the hardest. And of course I am referring not only to direct assignments, to the various IEK Brutsi scandals, but to the larger ones, to the great scandal. The big scandal is that your government, as did the previous governments, has finally found a chance to load the burdens, problems and contradictions that the system creates in the economy again on the workers' backs. The various support packages, whether directly or indirectly, go to the big capital, which can now park those workers who want free, but taking direct payments, financial support from banks and many tax exemptions. Even the support measures for workers finally have a limit and a measure of the needs again of the major entrepreneurs who do not want consumption to collapse nor to shut down hundreds of thousands of businesses sharply. The pillow you fought with SYRIZA didn't fall out of the sky. It is the bloody surpluses, it is the Greek people's money and you only give them to strengthen the big capital again. Of course, very soon all this account will have to be paid. The financial result will write minus, state debt will run and who will be asked to pay again? As all of you of course understand, the question is rhetorical again, because it is clear that you will again call on workers to put their hand in the pocket with new and even more taxes, with possible new wage reductions and new pension cuts. We don't do any futures. Already the legislative acts with which you are ruling, the government decrees, in other words, show who is paying for the crisis. Does anyone seriously think Case can solve the problem? It has not succeeded in the 1930s, it will not succeed either now, because the problem is not the lack of funds, but the existing excessive funds and the lack of good profit to invest them. The state stimulus of the economy, not just does not tackle this problem radically, but on the contrary increases it. State expenditure is increasing the state debt and so they will have to be repaid afterwards. The burden will fall on the people's backs and none of them will have the capital to pay. After all, the European Union's lasting memoranda is in full effect. Capitalism, so good of fans, propagandas and lovers you're all in here, is finally bankrupt. It produces economic crises, we see them one after the other, poverty, unemployment, wars and interventions. As for the European Union, its so-called solidarity now shows its teeth between the Member States and, above all, the peoples, because it is a union of such competitive capitalist states. Ladies and gentlemen, just because your strategic political options are identified, you can fight who can best serve them, like couples in quarantine conditions. That's your realism. Realism has been testified all these months every day. We will continue to do this here in Parliament, with suggestions, with questions, constantly. It concerns not only workers in the workplaces that have been suffering all this time, not only farmers, self-employed people in towns, but also artists and soldiers of our people, workers in the Armed Forces, security bodies and a number of other areas of social activity. But this so-called realism is now beginning to blur more and more employees who have accepted it to date, who see exactly your deadlocks, the deadlocks of a bankrupt system, who feel that there must be another development path, the socialization of the means of production, the central scientific planning, the only road that can really meet modern popular needs. And that is truly realistic because it is indeed the only philosopher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, too. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is not Mr Tsipras here, I wanted to make him a good point, well-meaning, not bad comment. But he's on TV. Today, Prime Minister, the CEC has shown that it was against how well we deceived the European Union and I am not talking about you. I am referring to the money that the European Union gives and which each government chooses to use not because it wants to help the Greek economy but because it wants to help the people, to some mysteries, to some programmes that are strange, while it is money that could be invested properly. And I hope you will do so now at least, since you say that you will restructure the JRC and it is to your credit, in any case, that you have understood it slowly. Because you were the Minister of Government and you of the New Democracy and PASOK did the same as SYRIZA. You know, in order to make legions, it's a given fact that they have to be paid. If it is not paid, ladies and gentlemen, that is to say the voter, the party executive, it will never vote. That's how you've had your word and that's how you're still doing right now. Now, let me say that it is good for Mr. Tsipras to hear what the Greek Solution says, because half of what we have said. And he gave it to Mr. Varoufakis, too, while it was things that we were talking about. Furthermore, for the seats we were talking about earlier, that is to say if a store that has a hundred square metres is obliged to operate in ten or fifteen square metres, in 1/4 of the space, it means that you have to do the same with the fixed costs - for example, I say - with PPC, with OTE, with its rent. It can't work at 100% when it works at 25%, it can't. But he asks the government to operate at 25% and pay for 100%! It's unorthodox, it's contradictory. Mr Tsipras, who complained, is not here, Prime Minister, that you were not as polite as you should and as good and as consensual as the Prespecies Agreement should be. Instead of thanking you for not doing a committee of inquiry, to see who was responsible for the prespecies' story and we signed a treacherous agreement, he's complaining from the top! You're supporting him today! We have tabled a request for a committee of inquiry, to see what your party will do. Will you agree to find out why we drove to the press? What was the need? What did we have to sign such a deal? What was the need and who was behind it? The other, Kammenos, said 50m euros, said 30m euros. Let's see. We have tabled it and we expect the New Democracy not to change a deal - because it does not want it, because the state keeps on doing so - but at least to see who is moral and natural perpetrators of crime. That is why Mr Tsipras does not complain, because he is well supported by the government, he continues his work. Don't be fooled. Today I saw SYRIZA fighting with New Democracy about who, Prime Minister, did the least of the harm - I heard you say that, unfortunately, and I am sorry - for the CEC. You said 'we didn't do it, you did it too'. I will be happy and live to see that moment where two camps, government and opposition, are fighting for who did the most good here. There's magic. Let us see two rival camps not fighting for at least evil but for the most good - it is very important! - Or whether they're doing a good job. I can't hear that, and that's what concerns me. I also insist on the Prime Minister and the New Democracy telling me not the goal of his Government, but the way we reach the goal. This is not Kavaphis 'value has the course', here the destination, the goal is important. Because Kavafis said it doesn't matter if you get to Ithaca but the route. This isn't the route, it's not a jungle. Here is a political, applied policy on the back of the Greek people. So you will tell us the way and not the target, because that is wrong. And because, Prime Minister, SYRIZA gave the money to the CECs, you had to give it to yourself. In your honor, you said you were wrong. We have to believe that, that's a reality. For the first time I heard a politician here saying 'I was wrong'. I really haven't heard. A mea culpa heard me, but it was Latin, who understood it, then with Andreas Papandreou. But we're actually going. You did the wrong thing, but you didn't fix it. You were about 1,070 or 1,040 euros, and now you're only giving 600. Why? I told you to do something. Take the 200, the 300 euros and give vouchers to buy Greek products, buy Greek agricultural products, Greek products! They do other countries, search and find it. I have told you examples. Why don't we do it? This is how we support the primary sector. I come to something that bothered me. I distinguished from the New Democracy the vote of arrogantness. Gentlemen, you haven't saved Greece yet! Okay, so this arrogance through sites, in the media, and so on, "the great Prime Minister"! I wish the great leader, any Prime Minister of the country, could prove for my country. I wish I could find a Capodist again, I know, if you'd like, a Free Venizelo. But the story isn't over yet. Now starts history. The story didn't end with the pandemic, and the Prime Minister knows well. That is why he is vigilant about what he said today, while his MPs go out and say 'what we would happen if the others were!' Well, look at what happens to us, if you don't do your job well and let others go. The others are opposition. And I say it in a very raw way, and there's some people waking up. And the worst of all is that you compare - the Prime Minister has, unfortunately - done so with negative examples. Why didn't you take positive examples, Prime Minister, comparisons? Why do you have to compare us well with Spain and Italy and Belgium - I say - and you do not compare us with other countries? And because I am not a person to believe what the media tell me - because it is customary for the media to serve interests either governmentally or interdependently, or the pimps, which a former Prime Minister here has ever said - I will tell you the simplest using my mind: in which countries has the pandemic become, gentlemen? Have you looked into it? I'll tell you what! In which countries did the dispersion not occur? I'll tell you now. Coincidence? I don't care, I'll testify. In countries that did not have international airports and connections with China there was no dispersion. Look into it. And I read this in a German university professor's article, who wrote in a German newspaper: "Where he had no international airport related to China or was not transit, they had no dispersal". Turkey - has Istanbul - has dispersed. Italy - Milan - has a dispersion. Spain - Barcelona, Madrid - has a dispersion. Belgium itself and where there was a continuous Chinese presence. But why? The Chinese New Year is early January, shortly after us. They went there, went back to Europe, to international airports and became the spread. It's called a professor. I'm not saying it. But from this point on until the Greek Prime Minister says, you know we had the least evil and have a hundred and fifty dead, it's too! Because I have a hundred and fifty dead! Because a hundred and fifty people lost their lives. It's not the Prime Minister's fault, but let's not boggle on top of everything we've achieved. We would have succeeded if we hadn't been dead. We had a thing. I'm saying this because, you know, some things we need to see more seriously. I heard the Prime Minister. You said no to everyone. And you told us, Prime Minister, that for the tests at first you said no to everyone because the committee indicated that. Didn't you say, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u42	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u43	For the tests, you said personally that you were instructed by the committee at the beginning not to do to everyone. That's right, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u44	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u45	Sure. Who did it to the committee? You. Look, sometimes words play a role. I didn't put Chiodra on. I didn't put the cardinal on him. In other words, I choose, "Yannis is buying, Yannis drinks." That's what you told us. You didn't hear. The truth is another, Prime Minister. We didn't have a test. Say it. It's not your fault. But we didn't have a test. It wasn't the whole planet. Don't come here and say things that don't apply. That's the bad thing. You won't even be serious after that if you tell me that, because it's just not true. You indicated to the committee, you did the committee and the committee indicated to you. Hey, that's not happening. It's a two-way relationship. Masks: The word describes what you said. ‘Supplementary measure’. That's what you said. Then why are you talking about fines? Since it is complementary, why should the other person pay a fine of EUR 150 if he does not wear it? Why should the unemployed person, the unemployed person, who does not have the 150 euros, pay a fine if he is unlawful, since it is complementary and is not important? Another supplementary, other necessary, and another protects your life. It's not the same thing. Let's get this straight. So the unemployed person, where will he find the 150 euros to pay for it? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President is ringing.]] You told us here, Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Vellopoulou, wait a minute. I wanted to ask you this: we have exceeded the time by two hours. I understand that important things have been said. The Prime Minister will not make use of the 15th in his tritology. He'll talk very little. Please, if possible, we must now stick to the end of the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u47	Is this going to happen to me and to Varoufakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u48	And the Prime Minister and everyone. The Prime Minister has 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u49	Leave the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister spoke more than anyone. And he had to talk more than anyone. It's not like that. Be fair, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u50	Let's go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u51	Let's go wherever we're going, but don't go to the end. I heard the Greek Prime Minister say - if these are not for some, they can leave if they do not want - that it was a huge success of the government to send messages in forty eight hours, that we have achieved this too. You know, Prime Minister, it's not very difficult. It's all computers. In other words, sending a message from a state that lives in 2020 and doing so in forty-eight hours, huh, is not a huge success. We didn't go to space. We didn't have spaceships made by my friend Poppas, those fine programs, where he'd take us all to space. We didn't become spacemen. SMS send. You didn't make any Parthenon, we didn't build a Parthenon. We did a SMS. I shall now go to the essence, because we support the primary sector, farmers, farmers and fishermen. I shall read - since the President of Parliament has a weakness - what the Xenophobian'resources or incomes' said, a book thousands of years ago. It therefore recommended to the Athenians, who had passed a throat of the Peloponnesian war, how Athens will emerge again, on how to live again. He told them four ways. One way was agricultural production, to have adequate and self-sufficient city - state of Athens. The Attica land - he said and writes - can feed its inhabitants. Products that are not planted in other regions thrive only on the Attica land. He said that a thousand years ago, ladies and gentlemen. The same will happen with Greece today. Thousands of products we can produce in Greece. Secondly, use of rich ground. Lavrio said it about the mines. We have gas, oil. We promised that. We lost it. Thirdly, exploiting ports - Piraeus - by building a shipyard, accommodation and purchases. He called it thousands of years ago! Today you're selling it. Fourth, equivalency. Taxe-equity scheme. Since then, our ancestors have said it, and today we cannot apply the simplest of all. We're being targeted. Primary sector. That's where you start. So Truman said - after thousands of years, ladies and gentlemen - that when farmers prosper and prosper, the country also prosper. When farmers and farmers thrive - Truman said so - the country thrives. And because some people will tell me about thousands of years ago, yesterday, Stro Khan - a well-known economist, you know, I imagine, many of you - said something very simple: those countries that rely on exports or on tourism are finished. Only those who produce...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u52	Exports of raw materials.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u53	Yes, and tourism. So Greece, unfortunately, is based on tourism. We must restructure our tourism industry, if we consider it industry, because the situation is distorting. Here I have a different philosophy from New Democracy. The new Republic has always said, Prime Minister, and you said it, that the state cannot be an entrepreneur. I strongly disagree. The German state cannot be an entrepreneur, it cannot be Italian, French, American and it cannot be Greek. Then you can't be businessmen. You're just politicians. I want the politician to think entrepreneurially, because the businessman thinks the profit, how he wins. If the politician thinks how my Greece will win, my Greece will get better. That is what we say and it is a different approach. And that was the wrong tactic we've been in for decades. We must support the food industry, which is tomorrow, the water that is tomorrow, because that is where the great battle will take place, as evidenced by developments. If countries close their borders, as most of them have done, Prime Minister, I fear that we will not have food, because most of them are imported. We must support domestic processing. We need to change our tourism. Specific things. I want the Prime Minister to tell me if a new memorandum is coming, if he has information that a new memorandum is coming. It is important for the Prime Minister here to say that there is no new memorandum coming, that the New Democracy will not sign a new memorandum. Because if the New Democracy signs a new Memorandum, that means we're going to new adventures. I told you about the hotels. You want to open the hotels. Well, do something very simple: reduce PPC's accounts. It cannot have the same fixed size as a huge area that will be obliged to have fewer customers, because there is a crisis and it must protect its customers. You cannot say that a hotel with a hundred beds will work with twenty, thirty - which means 30% to have a chance of winning - but will have the same cost as a hundred beds. It won't come out. It's not coming out. It's very simple. Also - to help people who make advertising of the country - for me from now on, if you want to make tourist view - is not Theocharis here - the slogan must be one: the country's health insurance. It's gonna be the slogan. If you want to play tourists, beyond our beauty, play with the country's health insurance, that we are the safest destination. If you say - and you are right, the Germans say so - the French say so, the Italians say so. - that we went well, use this as a siege ram, so that we can break the problem that others have. Unfortunately, unfair competition? I don't care. My Greece wins. I don't care either Italy or France or Spain or Germany. Play with it. Mr. Tsipras, I see you're back. You weren't here. I said the best for you. I said you complained that Mr Mitsotakis did not support you in the Prespes, but I told him that today you support him well. Today he supports you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u54	You guys were doing fine toward the end. Now you're repeating?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u55	Repeat the mother of all learning for those who were not here or for those who are here. I'm going to tourism. At some point a plan has to be made with thermal and thermal tourism. The revenue we can earn, Prime Minister, is about 3.5 billion. I will give you an example. We have seven hundred and fifty medical sources in Greece. Germany uses them and makes a lot of money. Do you know how many things work? One hundred and twenty-four. Seven hundred and fifty are under-operating - they do not work - a hundred and twenty-four. Revenue from this? Three billion euros. Globally, the turnover is about 57 billion euros. Greece could be able to do so, and it is a primary possibility. I also insist on supporting fishermen, agriculture and livestock. Prime Minister, do you know that our country since 1981, since PASOK, has so far not designated fishing zones? Do you know that the Aegean with the Moroccan, Algerian and Turkish veins is devastated, why have we not set fishing zones at twelve miles? I'm not talking about territorial waters now. I'm talking about fishing zone. The European Union has been waiting since 1981. Do you know when it ends? March of 2021. If you don't do it where you're the last government, we're losing the chance. Well, it can't all be symptoms! They're symptoms of a process with pathogens. This is where I'm going to say it right away, so everyone can figure it out. We need to prepare ourselves for a food war that comes, a global food war. Because if the pandemic continues, they will close borders, which means that the food will be very important for the Greeks to survive. And we have neither sufficient nor self-sufficiency. Because the president is pressing and I don't want to be a bad guy and he's yelling, I'm going to table in the Minutes a proposal for amateur unions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u56	Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u57	I have proposals for the country's amateur unions. Subsidy of part of the payroll of three months. The paradoxes they're paying even now while they're not working. Look at the municipal stadiums used by amateur clubs and pay rent. See the suggestions I make in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Hellenic Solution, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Check the gasoline. There cannot be gasoline worldwide and in Greece, friends and friends, that we have a problem with high prices. Because I said adequacy and self-sufficiency to tell you that Romania and Russia have suspended exports of cereals. Soon we'll call it the bread. That is why we need to reorder our logic at primary level in the fourth and fifth generations. The advertising of Greek products. I insist, Prime Minister. Make aggressive advertising of Greek products. I won't say about public investment. It must be increased anyway because this is where development is, Minister. But let me tell you about illegal immigrants. It's something I have to do. A Greece that went bankrupt, a Greece that has problems and gives benefits to Greek citizens to survive, to long-term unemployed, etc., gives 500 and 600 euros. Some people give them. The NGOs and the European Union. Prime Minister, if you don't take the poachers to the inhabited islands, as I told you, and in private, I fear the explosions that are coming will be terrifying. Done at Samos. They set on fire, because the gangs between them, I wanted some power to pay while it's free. Some people are sad, uncomfortable, and they're a little stiff. I don't care. I'll call it in here. I repeat and stress it. I would ask that some, gangs, in Samos, pay power for these poor people, refugees, immigrants, illegal immigrants - I do not care - while it is free. And they made mafias inside Samos. They burned it and the Greek will pay for it. These are mistakes. To the uninhabited, because the coronary is next to us. Let me remind my friends in the New Democracy that you are doing well in public. That's a reality. I never believed in polling. But remember something. Today the Greek is fighting for a living. To live and not die. In twenty days' time that story will end, it'll try to live for euphoria so that it can live better. Since you have no plan and programme, Prime Minister, reorder the logic of living, go to the euphoria to live well, to live well and to live well. But it wants initiatives from you because I'm afraid your ministers are curbing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u58	Mr Yiannis Varoufakis, President of the MERA25 Parliamentary Group, is hereby called on to move to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, we really don't know. You're right. We are living what Frank Knight had termed the 'rotial uncertainty'. Not only do you know what's going to happen, but you don't even know the possibility distribution of the different results. It's a reality. Indeed, you are right - and I will agree with you too - that the people are not interested in who will be credited with the difference between my forecast, your forecast, Mr Tsipras, Mr Stournaras and the result. What is of interest to the people is from you, from the government, from the parties to a debate like today to hear assessments and how these assessments are interconnected with proposed policies and actions. What the honourable Member and the honourable Member want, the citizen to hear from you, Mr Mitsotakis, today, is this. "I appreciate as the country's responsible Prime Minister that the recession will be so. Without knowing it'll be that long. But this is the average of my estimates. My government is preparing on the basis of this assessment to do this. If I fall out 5% up or 10% down I will do the other." In other words, depending on the dispersion of the error of assessment policies. That's your job. You have a sacred obligation to do that. If your financial staff do not have such an allocation of estimates and have not linked each of these estimates to one of them, then we are talking about a complete failure of the government. If you have this distribution of estimates and you know what you will do in each of the possible manifestations of this procedure and you do not inform Parliament, then you are currently in breach of Parliament's process of informing Parliament of the economic issues that you have started. If you do this, what can I tell you? Perhaps you would like to use Parliament's Step for a pre-election presentation. That's how I take it. Unless you don't have a plan, if you don't have any estimates. So you had to quit yesterday. When you are facing a pandemic, such a disaster does not qualify as a governor as manager of the crisis not to have such an allocation of estimates. Do you have it? Are you going to tell us? So, let me use the time - I will not spend a minute more than what you have given me, Mr President, of the House - to repeat my seven questions. But I will repeat it in the context of the allocation of estimates. Prime Minister, depending on the different sizes of the crisis, if we have 10% less than how much will you borrow in 2020, 2021 and 2022? If it's less than 8%, how much will you borrow? If it's minus 15%, how much will you borrow? Second, you're going to lower the public wages? What should be the recession, what should be the percentage of GDP corresponding to your primary deficit to say I will cut public wages. Answer us. I'm not asking you to be a prophet, but tell us if it's over so much a percent, then I'm gonna start thinking about a public wage cut. In the private sector under what conditions will you begin to table proposals in this Parliament to cut the minimum wage for the abolition of collective agreements? Same for pensions. What should be the size of the urban wave of the recession to start cutting pensions? And what will be the correlation between the size of the recession and the size of the pension cut? Say it here. That was the purpose of today's debate. If we have a minus 12% primary deficit in the budget, what do you think will be the size of the austerity that the troika will impose on you next year or in 2022? An estimate. What demand will be made by the troika, which will be a red line for you and will you tell them 'no pasaran'? No way. Is there or will you say yes to what they suggest or impose? On the question of your banks, I asked a specific question. Do you agree with the assessment of Mera25 that recapitalisation will be needed after the end, the final of the HERAKLIS project for resolution? You may be indifferent. But tell us. The second question that goes with the first package. If recapitalisation takes place, will you get shares with no vote, as took place in Samaras - Venizelos? These are specific questions. They're dependent on different estimates. Finally, once again, will you freeze the "HRAKLE"? Am I wrong to say that if you don't freeze him you're going to have to borrow but 12 billion for the predator funds? And if I'm not wrong, will you freeze it? And if you don't freeze it, why won't you freeze it? Do you know what 12 billion means? You know but the rest of Parliament and the citizens who listen to us: 7.5% of GDP of the year. That's what it means. Will you get a loan of 7.5% of GDP in such a situation that the country is in, to give it to predators who will immediately the next day make this money as currency outside Greece? Answer us. It's a very simple question. Prime Minister, we have agreed that Eurobonds or something like Eurobonds are a necessary treaty - not sufficient but necessary - so that national debt is not charged with the cost of this collapse. That is why you embraced the Eurobond. You said, however, that the summit is being fought not only by you, but also by colleagues, I imagine, by the Italian, Mr Conde, Mr Sanchez and others, in order not to impose the budgets of the States and national debts. Really? Mr Mitsotakis, you have misinformed Parliament. That's what you sold. Finish this game. This game you lost. This battle has been lost since on 9 April Mr Stagioras accepted on your behalf the abolition of the idea of Eurobonds and the replacement of the loan by the ESM and since you accepted this recovery fund, which you referred to, on the basis of guarantees and loans. The story of the Eurobond, the debt restructuring, has expired so that these billions that the Greek economy will need do not add to the Greek budget, the Greek deficit and, of course, accumulate on national debt. You said quite rightly that we are part of a European family and that it cannot be a country alone. That's right. A country is not enough. But the prerequisite for this country to be saved is to have at least one veto at the summit. If there is no veto, Dutch and German memorandum armies will pass over our country and you know that. Without a veto. Mr. Mitsotakis, who is currently obliged to veto? Mr. McCrone or you? There is no doubt that in the long term France's public debt is not viable. But is France comparing the problem with the problem we have? If it does not veto the summit, at the Eurogroup, the representative of the country most affected by all the other countries, the representative of the country that can have - fortunately and well - both in your Government and our people - the smallest number of victims of the coronary, but has the largest number of hungry victims throughout the European Union. If you do not veto that this debt will not be transferred to the shoulders of the Greek public debt, to the government, to the state, there will be no chance of recovery in the next ten years. You said before that, in 2015 with our own government - when we were together - the Greek people were forced to be loaded on their shoulders by an inappropriate third memorandum. Look, having political controversy between us is absolutely legitimate. Do you want to criticise both my ministerial service and the SYRIZA government for the first five, six months? Do it. But you are hurting your credibility when you refer to the third memorial as inappropriate. Because when you're bankrupt, two are the solutions. There's no third one. One solution is debt restructuring, and that is what we went to do, and we demanded and conflicted with the troika that said 'in no case should you discuss debt restructuring' or take a Memorandum. There's nothing third. What you said about credit lines is a memorandum. Let me just say it. When you left the government - and stop saying this about 2014 - in 2014, GDP in euro was lower than it was in 2013. Let that go. But beyond that, and if you were in the government, you would have received 7.2 billion from the troika to pay 22 billion that year and the following year 18 billion. It would either be a haircut of this debt, debt restructuring, or a third memorandum, whether you or us. We fought not to take a third Memorandum, and you were applauding each time Diaselblum spoke, which basically said "Take the third Memorandum and put it in prerequisites". Today I am watching you, and I am afraid, because when you talk about the third inappropriate memorandum, you are basically saying that you are continuing to deny the bankrupt dilemma. We are bankrupt today, we were bankrupt in 2015, we were bankrupt in 2012, in 2011, in 2010 as a state. When you're bankrupt or restructure the debt or get a new Memorandum loan. Speaking of an inappropriate memorandum in 2015 - the third - what you are actually signalling is that you are going very rapidly for the fifth, as if you were government in the first five months or six months of 2015. Prime Minister, you have not questioned the numbers of the upcoming austerity I have put before you. That is clever of you because I think they are even modest. I was hoping you could tell me I was wrong. Do you know why? Because I want to be wrong. I want things to go much better. I'm so sorry you didn't deny me these numbers. But, in fact, by not denying these figures, you have confirmed the Fifth Memorandum and, of course, the elections that you are going to make for it without precedent to a people who are currently facing a pandemic and an economic collapse. Mr President, allow me to conclude by saying that I wish even now what I have been asking for for a month and a half. Teleconferencing all three hundred MPs so that they can function properly, as could have been the first day, the House. Mr President of the House, let me inform you that today at 20.00 in Mera25 there will be a teleconferencing conference with two hundred and thirty-three members of us in Thrace. We're not going to Thrace, don't be afraid. We'll do it from our house by teleconferencing. If you have a technical problem in this House, please tell us to send the two children who help us make the teleconferencing to help the House. Finally, I should like to thank you because I have learned that two days ago at the Conference of Presidents, you have committed yourself to putting an end to the misery affecting Members' ability to exercise our parliamentary duties without arbitrary, unconstitutional restrictions on men from the Security Councils. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u60	And the Prime Minister, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, closes with his tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, I will be brief. The natural order of the parliamentary order always brings me to speak after Mr Varoufakis. I sincerely did not intend to refer to this issue at all, but I cannot comment on cynical openness, specifying what the country's options were at the beginning of 2015: a new memorandum or debt restructuring. Why didn't you vote for that? Why did you deceive the Greek people then, telling him that you would tear the memoirs with a law and an article? This question has not yet been answered. Even though the order is very late and we are learning what really happened in the first half of 2015. To try to close this debate, Mr President, I think it has been carried out in a good and basically constructive climate, and I hope that this will also be the tone that will prevail in Parliament in the coming weeks, in the coming months, as we have, as I have said, a very dense legislative work. We have an obligation to face up to the major challenges above all sincerity and the government, as I have said several times, is here to be accountable to Parliament, to be accountable through parliamentary control, which has not essentially been interrupted, obviously to answer at the level of Ministers and Prime Minister, whenever this opportunity is given, on the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of this House. We're not hiding the difficulties. Again, I will say that the ability to predict the depth of the recession is an exercise that has only theoretical characteristics today. Obviously, others are the scenarios if the recession is too deep and others are the scenarios if the recession eventually turns out to be not so deep. And obviously we and the financial staff and the European obligations we have to submit in the medium term are also taking into account all these parameters. But they have a large, intrinsic factor of instability. Allow me to make three quick comments on individual sectoral issues that have been raised by political leaders and which I would not like to leave. First of all, it is the reference to farmers and Mr Tsipras and Mrs Gennimata. As you know, we have allocated an additional allocation of EUR 150 million to the Ministry of Rural Development to support rural income targets. We will look closely at the impact of the crisis on agricultural production, supply chain and food safety. Obviously we are here to look at and to study to what extent additional support for the primary sector will be needed. On the issue of tourism, Greece first pointed out at European level the absolute need for a European coordinated response to the issue of transport, in particular air transport, but also the way in which the tourism product can function during the summer. I would like to remind you that after our statements, initial statements made by important European executives, one might not be able to travel from northern Europe to southern Europe this summer. Today, the European Commission has taken a clear line from the Council, after intense pressure from us. I believe that very soon there will be clear announcements on how tourism can be supported and what should, in particular, be those protocols, which will allow all of us - those who want to visit Greece, but also the Greeks who want to travel abroad - to travel safely. Above all, we put the safety of visitors and the security of Greek citizens. These developments are very important. Yes, you have a right, Mr Velopole, when you say that we have an added value today as a country that is'speaking' - and I believe quite rightly - that he has managed the health crisis well. This creates a reserve of confidence, which obviously helps us the next day as a whole in how we promote the destination of Greece. It does, of course, create interesting other opportunities in our medium-term development plan, as I believe that it will strengthen overall the prospect that Greece can have in what is called English - and I use the English term because there is no accurate English translation - Silver economy, that is, an economy that is mainly aimed at people of middle age or retired people for whom health issues obviously play a very important role. This is a medium-term debate to be held and to be held at the initiative of the Greek Government. I'm on a very important subject. It was well raised by all the political leaders. I am referring to culture. Look, we will need to do a special exercise and I have already given the relevant directions to the Ministry of Culture, on how the cultural sector can and must be supported in the short and medium term. We should see and I have asked the scientists for this, although in what way - I hope they are in 'and in what way' rather than 'if' - we can have open cultural events this summer, such as festivals and concerts. I was a little more sceptical about the proclamation I made. I would, however, like to see the cultural sector paralysed in the summer because I know that this is the period when many people who are involved in culture are waiting to be able to support their annual income. I have also asked the Minister of Culture, in consultation with the Ministry of Labour, to see whether we can and how we can redistribute resources from the NSRP for a targeted programme to support unemployment in the cultural sector. This issue has rightly been raised. We will speak very briefly about this sector with concrete measures and concrete proposals, and I believe that we will be able to reach a programme that eases the negative effects on the cultural sector to the fullest extent possible, from the fact that this summer's confrontation in open spaces will not be possible under the same procedures and rules as has always been done to date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate has been concluded in accordance with the special agenda. The average length of the last eight corresponding sittings under Rule 142a, namely the Rules of Procedure, is two hours and thirty-two minutes. The duration of today's sitting was six hours and twenty minutes. In other words, with a closed House, we met six hours, while with an open House we met two hours. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We're entering SPECIFIC PROVISIONS OF THE BULLETURAL AUTHORITY Debates, at the request of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in accordance with Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure, on the subject of informing the House about government policy on the financial implications of the health crisis in the country. Today, at the request of the Prime Minister, who was sent on 24 April 2020 and notified to the Presidents of the opposition parliamentary groups immediately, as laid down in Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure. According to the terms of Article 142a, the announcement is made in person by the Prime Minister, and the duration of the communication may not exceed 10 minutes in protology, five minutes in denology and five minutes in tritology. The Presidents of the Opposition Parliamentary Groups may, in person, develop their views on the content of the communication for a maximum of five minutes each in the prototype and three minutes in the second. The Prime Minister shall, in accordance with paragraph 6 of Article 142, close the sitting, speaking last. However, for the better organisation of the debate, in accordance with the unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents of 28 April 2020, the speaking times of the Prime Minister and of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups are tripling. Therefore, they are formulated as follows: For the Prime Minister the terminology for thirty minutes, the dentology for fifteen minutes and the tritology for fifteen minutes and for the presidents of the opposition parliamentary groups, fifteen minutes of protology and nine minutes of dentistry. In view of the fact that the planned periods are already in three times, I would ask that they be respected as much as possible. Are we okay with this proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u64	I also wanted to tell you that the times in this procedure will be increased, in view of a change in the Rules of Procedure, because we obviously multiply them every time. So what is in place in the Rules of Procedure needs to be improved. The proposal was unanimously accepted. After that, the Prime Minister, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by expressing my sadness at the collapse of the Canadian helicopter in the Ionian last night. I will also contact my counterpart, Mr Trido, to convey to him, on behalf of the government, the Parliament and the Greek people our warmest condolences. Mr President, I am in this House again today, confessing to different circumstances and procedures, in order to support Parliament's constant functioning, regardless of the exceptional circumstances, such as the battle we continue with the pandemic. First of all, I have said that no critical need can question the democratic sensitivity and the government's obligation to be accountable to Parliament. In fact, I was commenting on the President a few days ago that the Great Britain Parliament was meeting, even under heavy bombings in London at the beginning of World War II, even though parliamentarians had to be transferred from room to room, so that they could not be targeted and, of course, the Parliamentary Republic and then endured. So in today's Greece, under the state, obviously, completely different threats, the parliament continues to operate. The appeal I am making, as we are coming back to parliamentary regularity procedures, is to stop this debate on the way Parliament has been operating in the last two months. On this occasion, I would like to state in the Minutes the statement made by Mr Tasoulos, the President of the Parliament, on how we operate during the health crisis. [[At this point, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I would like to remind you here that when the relevant alternatives were discussed in the Conference of Presidents, there was then a proposal for the closure of the House for thirty days. This proposal has not been accepted and it has not been accepted. The parliament has operated for the last two months, the government has used as a debtor and as provided for in the Constitution the tool of legislative acts and these acts have been ratified by the National Parliament in a record time, at least in relation to what has happened in the past. This practice will obviously be stopped after the latest act of legislation, which is now to be done and concerns provisions which must be provided for before the end of this month, and the House with the new rules, Mr President, which we have adopted and always following the clear commands of the experts for the necessary distances that we need to keep, will return to normal operation, in fact with an extremely rich legislative work, as I have already announced to the Ministerial Council, the government, will propose to the House a series of bills by the end of July, and the intention of the parliamentary majority is not to interrupt its work, not to go to summer sections this summer. I would therefore appeal that this chapter should be closed, that we all agree together with the rules with which we are going to move from now on and I hope that, soon, the speakers at the Step must not speak, in front of them, but rather annoying, plaiting. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last two months the government has made a very clear choice. It protected the health, life of the citizens, subjugating to that objective - the ultimate purpose - its economic design. Reinforced the National Health System, supported workers and businesses. In other words, we have spent - and that is why we will be discussing today - consciously a lot of resources so that, first of all, we can defend the supreme good, which is no more than the protection of the health of Greek citizens. We have achieved this objective, and that is why today we are ready - from Monday, at least - to proceed with the gradual relaxation of measures, in accordance with central government planning, as has been announced. Before entering the debate on economic issues, I would like to mention only two elements which demonstrate the success, which we have had in dealing with the pandemic, a success which the Greek Government does not credit for, as a whole, the Greek people are credited for, in total, in incomprehensible goodwill. On March 30th, we had reached the maximum number of hospitalized in COVID beds. The COVID incidents then reached the two hundred ninety-seven, but still having multiple COVID beds ready, available, which fortunately did not have to be exploited. Last night, this number was down to a hundred and eighteen, and today there are thousands of more beds available for COVID patients. We hope that they will never be needed. Also, on 4 April we reached the maximum number of intertwined incidents, in fact ninety-three. On that date we still had a significant number of beds available in the National Health System. In other words, we have never even reached the maximum number of treatment units covered. This figure has been reduced and today throughout the country we have forty of our intertwined fellow citizens. We hope that this figure will continue to fall. I would like to point out that, thanks to the excellent efforts of our doctors, our nurses and all those who support the work of the intensive workers, a significant proportion of the citizens who have suffered the intubation process have finally succeeded and escaped from the intensive and won this very great battle with COVID -19. So we, as a country, have spent a lot of money, but we have achieved our first health objective, which we have set ourselves. Other countries that have spent too much money have not been successful in the health treatment of the crisis. The consequences of this coronary attack will undoubtedly be dramatic but also multi-level, as it is a crisis that is unprecedented. No generation has lived like her for nearly a century. It is a crisis that at the same time puts at risk everything that constitutes the nature and substance of man, his health, his well-being and his coexistence with others, that is, his sociality, which is also the foundation of our culture. In fact, this threat concerns everyone, all countries, it makes no social segregation, and its very source remains invisible. This drama has many victims, but it does not have any responsibility to answer. In the face of such a phenomenon, our decision was immediate. The state must become the civil shield, the state guarantor of the new everyday life, and the government must become the guardian of social cohesion. A series of exceptional measures, which, until March, fantasy, were fortunately added to the patronage of the country: The discharge from the budgetary commitments of the past so that we can extend the State's spending and extend a protection net to all those affected by the crisis, the possibility for Greek banks to deposit Greek bonds as a credible asset to the European Bank, which makes their access to liquidity cheaper, the possibility of making more funds available from European funds to businesses, freelance professionals, self-employed people and, of course, the development and strengthening of the increased reserves of the public fund. All of this was done by plan and wisely, knowing that we have a war before us, which will last a long time. So, there always have to be backups and with a look always on the day of rebooting. Because success in tackling the health crisis will be to a certain extent also the 'passport' for the construction, which will follow. Ladies and gentlemen, the government announced its comprehensive plan to gradually remove the restrictions on society. I am at the disposal of the National Representation, since they also want the heads of the other parties and are placed on this issue, to discuss the health aspects of this project, and to answer any questions, good faiths may be raised for the specific options that we have made. Today, however, I have produced this debate in this House to discuss our directions primarily for the economy, because from now on, citizens' health and wellbeing will also be our shared compass of two objectives, which will be promoted at the same time for both values, which will be served at the same time. Until now, the Greek state and the Greek state have made measures amounting to 17.5 billion euros, which account for about 10% of GDP, a sum which, with the further utilization of European funds, will reach 24 billion in two directions, as two of our priorities: to strengthen the income and to support the liquidity of businesses. However, our main concern, which bridges these two priorities, has been and remains one: to protect employment. On the first front Greece has been, as far as I know, the only country that has banned redundancies and has chosen, not the wage-based support of households, but their equal and horizontal support, which of course relieves the weaker. Thus, almost all employees, professionals and self-employed are already premiumd at EUR 800. Their insurance contributions are fully covered by the State, the rents of the professional housing and the first housing for thousands of citizens are reduced by 40%, and the general extension of the payment of all kinds of public obligations also applies. As far as businesses are concerned, 10 billion euros are directed towards their liquidity. The tools are the repayable advance - the new instrument created by the Treasury - the guarantee mechanism for the capital's loans, the interest subsidy for all the information loans from small and medium-sized enterprises. I have already been informed by the Ministry of Development, and also by the banking sector, that fifteen thousand small and medium-sized enterprises have shown interest to be subject to the three-month interest subsidy and a thousand two-tier companies have already submitted an application to raise working capital totalling 200 million of the development bank's loans at 100% of the rate financed. Fortunately, there is a very positive response so far from the market to the tools launched by the Ministry of Development to support business liquidity. In May, the state guarantee programme of up to 80% for working capital loans, a total package of 7 billion to enterprises of each size, will be launched. I would like to point out here that in the first quarter of 2020 the rate of absorption of the NRP, despite the adverse conditions, was the best of all the corresponding quarters in the previous years of this programming period. The next step relates to the response of the NRV to the pandemic, starting both from the measures to support the lives of businesses, and their re-starting and including the inclusion of the five hundred movable units of EAFRD, so that we can perform more tests on the coronary. A total of more than 5 billion is expected to be spent, both directly and financially, on market support. In fact, from July 2019 until today, within nine months, the absorption of the ESRB in sectoral and regional programmes, without the Rural Development Fund, reached 34%. It's a record increase and it's translated to 1.7 billion in the real economy. A further breath, in addition to what I have already described, is the six-month suspension of payment of VAT and employers' contributions, and the extension of payment of instalments and certified debts. At the same time, the government, the General Accounting Office of the State, paid all its dues of up to EUR 30,000 to businesses and individuals to strengthen their fund. Finally, those undertakings which closed krone were also exempted from municipal charges. As it becomes clear, this is a coherent programme of many interventions, which together form an umbrella of protection above work, but also entrepreneurship. But they also serve the needs of the most vulnerable. Unemployment benefits have been extended, and the payment of emergency aid to sixty - six thousand long-term unemployed has begun. They also joined employment programmes forty-five thousand of our fellow citizens. Sixty-four thousand households, already receiving a minimum guaranteed income, will receive an additional EUR 100 for the first child and EUR 50 for the next child. Finally, there is the unavoidable funding of health. Thanks to this, ICU beds were made from five hundred sixty-five we received, a thousand fifteen in two months. Nearly five thousand recruits of new doctors and nurses were approved, three thousand seven hundred forty-eight have already joined the health system and the recruitment of three thousand workers in the extremely important programme "Help at home", while the ESS has acquired in time a record of modern equipment and materials adequacy. Here, let me thank and congratulate those who have made a titanic effort and contributed to this very great struggle, so that there are no protective material shortages in the last two months in our hospitals. I assure you that it was not an easy effort at all. There was essentially a war over which country could have first access to protective material, surgical masks, increased protection masks. We have won this war and practically, there have never been any deficiencies in our hospitals in the necessary protective equipment. I also want to thank all the private donors, who rushed to respond to our call for further support for the National Health System. Nearly sixty - four million have now become beds, intensive treatment units, respirators, drugs, masks, reagents for hundreds of thousands of tests. The Minister for Health will have the opportunity next week to present a detailed account of all the donations that have been made and to thank publicly all the donors, both large and small, who have supported the national effort at this extremely difficult time. In the face of all this, what is it, really, the criticism we have received and what are the realistic - I stress, realistic - proposals that have been put forward? By surviving - from the secure - SYRIZA asked to be spent when 29 billion, 36 billion, in an extremely ambitious plan, the details of which he has not yet revealed. I will look forward with interest to the placement of the Chief of Police today, if we can be more enlightened about this economic plan, and I will respond to my dentistry, after I have heard of his position. The picture I have, however, - I do not think I am alone in this - is that the opposition is proposing 'finance', without saying when and for whom. What you are doing is watering a plant, which is no longer there, because the "leaf tree" was permanently devastated in 2015. And no matter how much fertilizer you want to add to him, he's not gonna fly herd again. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Unfortunately, these easy wordings on forward aid deprive the country of valuable reserves in the event of a new outbreak of pandemic. They at the same time undermine our efforts to have continued access to low-interest markets. Various populisms about cheques, which have been heard in this Chamber only give rise to impressions and additional costs. I'll just get one example. At the start of the health crisis, we received a strong criticism from SYRIZA, who then called for the private clinics, which the government then simply held in active readiness. We had said first that if we need private sector assistance, we have all the legislative tools, so that we can get it straight away. Fortunately, however, this mobilisation of private therapies did not take place, because, as I mentioned before, we did not even get close to the maximum capacity of the National Health System. However, if we had followed your own recipe, we would have paid about 7 million in undue compensation. As far as the famous pillow is concerned, it is time to explain that in its rhetoric dimension at least it was created to make public opinion sleep on it. Because this is how the previous government baptized the public fund together with the 15.7 billion, but which must also be frozen as a pledge of credibility, which the country, unfortunately, has not had. The question, therefore, which is raised and to which I imagine the opposition parties will respond, is whether the people who ask us to spend more are actually asking us to touch this frozen stock too, and what this would mean for the next day and the possibility that our country might be reunited in a strict surveillance programme. Ladies and gentlemen, events are not called into question. We've been under a tough attack. The economy has suffered a great blow. It has, however, succeeded in funding both health and income support, employment and businesses. The information we have, from 'ERGANI' and from GEMI, fortunately, shows that the measures we have taken have allowed the market to withstand. At the same time, the country is now moving without the burden of excessive surpluses. The value of its bonds is recognised by the European Bank, which buys them for the first time after our country entered the new quantitative relaxation programme, which was set up specifically for the treatment of the krone, and the state continues today, at this difficult time, to lend itself on favourable terms from international markets. Of course, Greece is now on the first pages of the international press, as a model of effectiveness in dealing with the coronary. All this is a safe starting point for the phase that we are now going through. At the beginning of the pandemic priority was the life of the Greeks. Now, the aim is for our fellow citizens to be able to spread to the economy as well. Because there will be no development, without civilians who rebuild it, nor will there be public health, without state resources, which finance it. I will say this again: A successful response to the health crisis can become the foundation on which to build up our economy. It is a pity that some - few fortunately - regard this success as a success only of the government and find every opportunity to question it. That's all it looks like. The truth is that even when the epilogue of the health crisis begins to be written on it, the prelocation of a major economic crisis will be reflected in it. The triumph and the recession will be great, it will be global. It will not only concern Greece, such as the last major economic adventure that the country passed in 2015, when the world economy was moving at a rate of high growth, and we were caught in our homeland in three years of recession and incitement. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This time, the recession will concern everyone, which means that the next day's solutions should be symmetrical and comprehensive, and indeed, with a separate dynamic for the states that stood up and acted effectively in the previous trial. Among these states, Greece will be among them. Because this time, she's not alone, but instead, she's staring out of crisis. The country comes out of the pandemic with new weapons, which were forged on its wheel. During this time, the needs of the moment served and serve, at the same time, and the necessities of the future. And so, a crisis primarily related to health has turned into an accelerator of reforms throughout the state. The new digital public administration, the reconstruction of the ESS, the new structure of civil protection, may have always been government choices, teleworking, electronic education, the partnership of state and private individuals on social objectives may have been our scheduling commitments, but the battle against the cordon has made them urgent actions. They have shaped a positive acquis for today, but also a chapter on progress for tomorrow. But there is also a large intangible national gain, the individual acquisition, which has become a collective estate and is called confidence. It is trust in our forces, translated into a universal self-confidence, but also trust in the state, which itself, by its own conduct, is conscious discipline by the citizens. Thus, the forces that helped us in the difficult climb, we hope and hope that they will now lead us to a smooth transition. Ladies and gentlemen, I will continue to speak the language of the truth. I will not hide that the difficulties that await us may be exogenous, as I have described, but they will be serious. We must therefore share their burden fairly with the citizen, but also in the interests of the country. There is no strong Greece without strong Greeks, as there is no individual projection without collective prosperity. Today, I find it extremely interesting, encouraging, I would say, that almost all of our society, despite the great difficulties, despite the health crisis, despite the recognition by the citizens themselves that the economy is still waiting for difficult days, citizens believe that the country is moving in the right direction and that it is optimistic about the future. I believe that this is a national conquest, which has no partisan colour. She's being credited all over the country. We all believe her together. It will be a great conquest for the political system, as we return to normal controversy, not to allow ourselves to question this national unity. That's what our citizens expect! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This is what they expect from us and they will judge us all strictly, both the Government and the Opposition, major and minor. It doesn't mean we won't have a hard political confrontation. It does not mean that we will not have a substantial and substantiated dialogue on scientific data, when science cannot give completely clear answers. I'm looking for all this. The government seeks creative criticism. What we are not going to allow is to be involved in a new game of muddling, blame-sharing, targeting of persons and questioning - I will repeat this, questioning - people who have offered the common good without wearing any party hats, only from a mood to serve and help our country. It's all right, finally, to leave them behind. And if we consider that, on the occasion of the crisis, a cycle has essentially been closed and we have managed to make a great leap in the future, in our attitudes as a whole as a society, it will be a wish if we can prove it in this Chamber as well. But that, of course, does not just depend on the government. Our home country, apart from a country example of dealing with the pandemic, can also become a model of overcoming its consequences. The protection of income and the strengthening of employment, with growth resulting from new investments, remain our objectives. However, the pace of achieving these objectives must be even faster. The harder the crisis is being done, the more emphatic the regeneration that will follow it can be, as long as there is a plan and an appetite for work. The government has shown that it has both and will transform them into measures for workers and businesses, which will be unfolded in time - as has been done so far - by a method and consistently. So today I can announce: First, until the last negative impact of the pandemic is lifted, the State will continue to grant special-purpose compensation to those who remain in temporary suspension of their contract or the activities in which they are employed professionally remain closed for health reasons. The same will apply to benefits to the unemployed and the long-term unemployed. Secondly, those who return to work but under reduced working hours and working hours will see their earnings supported by the state. We will stand by all the workers, all the businesses that are called on to reoperate in an unprecedented environment. And for the first time, there will be a wide-ranging enhancement of the income and the workers in our country by the state, in addition to the support of the unemployed. This is necessary in order to support employment, especially in this crisis, which drastically reduces the demand for products and services. To this end, the new 'SURE' programme will be used primarily. This is its main purpose, to be able to provide additional support to businesses, entrepreneurs, who cannot fully exploit their workforce. For all this? Detailed communications will be made today at 17.00 this afternoon by the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Development and the Minister of Labour. Thirdly, during the test of the coronary, no Greek will see his home in danger. The protection of first residence will be extended for three months further by the end of July 2020. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This, despite the impasse manoeuvres of the previous government. I want to remind you that he had set a limit on the grace period in December 2019. But he had also created a protection scheme only for borrowers who had seen their loans blush until the end of 2018. I would like to remind you, of course, that in this first home protection scheme - which was the creation of the previous government, and we supported it and, if anything, facilitated it, by simplifying further the major bureaucratic obstacles that we inherited - only three thousand and eight applications have been submitted to the banks so far. Immediately after July, a new bridge programme will be launched, which will safely lead us to 2021 and will provide for state-aided borrowers. This programme, which will be specialised today by the Minister for Finance, will be three times - I repeat: three times! - Perimeter from the existing one. And besides supporting all the debtors, it will reward for the first time and consistent borrowers who have been financially affected by the coronary. Our aim is to prevent the creation of a new generation of red loans. Fourthly, all the financial instruments announced in advance, such as a repayable advance, are still available for business, interest subsidy on loans from small and medium-sized enterprises. In April, I would like to remind you that we supported the incomes of about two million workers and businesses. Almost eight hundred thousand private sector employees, five hundred thousand free professionals have received 800 euros. Almost fifty - six thousand scientists have received EUR 600 and ninety thousand companies have applied for a one billion advance. Fifthly, in the next few days we will also announce a new package of measures that will begin in May and will alleviate the companies that will see their turnover falling. We will also announce, within the next few weeks and an express plan to stimulate tourism. Our tourism is certain that this year will be a great blow. Our aim is to reduce this blow as much as possible and to prepare for it in full time. Ladies and gentlemen, these steps concern the next period and lead us to summer. At the same time, however, it is essential to ensure that the conditions for the major development leap are also guaranteed, which is still more necessary today. The key to this will be the many bills, which will be submitted to Parliament in the next three months. Their aim is to mobilise comparative advantages in the country and make it an even more attractive destination for investors outside and within borders. It is a mesh of legislative intervention, many of which were already adopted on yesterday's cabinet with great importance. Some are practical issues which deal with trade every day. I would like here to congratulate the Ministry of Development and all the control mechanisms for the fact that, until now, at least until the market closes, they have achieved excellent results in the fight against the illegal trade. We are now coming through legislation to make the control mechanism of the market, even more effective. We will bring to Parliament flagrant bills, which solve unfinished decades, such as the bill on spatial planning and land use. It is absolutely necessary, a crucial bill, so that we can finally allow anyone who is investing in this country to know what it can do, which can do so, on what terms, remove ambiguities and distortions of the past, which have been tempting the country for decades. Arrangements will be made for amending Law 4412 on procurement and public procurement so that we can unlock major projects which will give the necessary impetus to the economy next day. I only mentioned, for example, some of the bills, which we will discuss at the National Representation in the coming months. As I pointed out in my message to the citizens, the return of both social and economic life will be gradual and progressive. Our central, however, does not change. We are on the side of work and on the side of healthy entrepreneurship. The same clear, however, is the message that we are passing through support, from allowance to service. In other words, the state of protagonists of society is now becoming a part of it, mobilizes and mobilizes for overall progress. The burden of this reopening will be borne by all of us justly, state, businesses, shareholders, that is, society, equal and with a sense of law. The state will re-engine the machines of economic activity by supporting the liquidity of businesses. The financial tools we have, as I have told you, are already working and will be framed with others. The government will make good use of all the additional European tools at the appropriate time that will be available. I have specifically referred to the 'SURE' programme to support employment, but also to programmes for the financing of enterprises through the European Investment Bank. However, Europe's most decisive response to the coronary and, at least in the economic crisis, which accompanies the coronary will, in my opinion, be the so-called recovery fund. It's a new fund, which we're fighting for has specific features. Firstly, it must be equal to the crisis. Secondly, it should be financed by a common European loan. And, thirdly, it should operate on a major vehicle, not on loans. Our positions are at the table, they have already found many supporters, and I expect that soon we may have good news. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing with these comments. The pandemic still costs us a lot, but it makes us every day and possible, as long as we take advantage of all the skills that we recruited during it and draw all the lessons that it offers us. The pandemic must not and must not lead to bankrupt practices being restored. The pandemic must become the starting point for building a new productive model, without weaknesses, without the pathogens of the past. A model based on sectors and sectors that can attract investment, create new and well-paid jobs and provide the national economy with the dynamics needed to transform the crisis into a growth platform. I shall close, Mr President, with a referral back to Thucydides and to Pericles' words to Epitaph. I read: "All of our city - Athens - is a school for Greece and each of us could, without difficulty, respond to the most different forms of action with the greatest flexibility and grace". Two and a half thousand years later, the Greeks deserve the words of the great Athenian. We're making our home school, a model for the whole world. We respond to the most demanding forms of action and turn our state into a true state, with responsible citizens who work for collective prosperity. This is the challenge, this is the opportunity we have before us. I'm sure we won't leave her untapped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u66	The Chief of Staff Response and Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group Mr Alexis Tsipras is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that we have had an unprecedented crisis, which has to do with what is most valuable, with people's life and health, but also with today and tomorrow, I would say to all of us. Management of this crisis required seriousness, responsibility, but also a new hierarchy of priorities from all of us, from the representatives of the state, from the political forces and the parties, from journalists and the media, from the church and the hierarchs, from all of us, above all from the citizens themselves, from each and every one of us. The truth is that the citizens as well as those who gave and give the battle to the front line for the protection of human life were found, I would say, very much in front of the political forces in this collective effort. They prioritised human life, the life of our neighbor, public health. Others limited their individual freedoms and were found living closed for more than two months not in luxurious mansions with gardens, but in forty and fifty squares often with luxurious families and even more often with dramatically reduced income and dramatically increased insecurity for tomorrow. Others, with heroism and self-renunciation, did not stay inside, but risked their lives, so that we could be in a better situation today. And they were not richly rewarded, they were not Golden Boys, they were among those who until yesterday, Mr Mitsotakis, who now called them heroes, you considered them unnecessary civil servants, you condemned them under world conditions of work and pay, and you sometimes dictated, for example, the programs, their dismissal or the reduction of their wages because you thought they were being paid more than they offered. I have no problem admiting - barely - that your Government has done what is self-evident, as has most governments in Europe. This'self' is what I say in the positive sense of the term, because at least in our country at least the self-evident thing is inadequate. The only thing I do not think of as much as it is when it comes to serious omissions and attempts to communicate a dramatic situation. It was therefore the whole world that put human life as a priority because it gave room for solidarity, because it trusted the scientific community and not because you trusted him, as in a paternalistic and arrogant style, almost imperialist, you told us the day before. This whole world, the anonymous and afflicted years of austerity and monuments, did not give us and gave you no authorisation and no white cheque, especially for political games on its own backs. If he gave us something, it's time. Time has given us time to get rid of ideologies and strangles that face public space and public health as social and economic weight, time to correct failures and errors, time to substantially strengthen the national health system, time to invest in permanent recruitment to doctors and nurses, in intensive beds, in local primary care units, in a sufficient diagnostic test. Time has given us, in order to deal with the very likely second wave of pandemic, according to scientists. The crucial question is what you did to him this year, Mr Mitsotakis. Did you use him? No, I answer with the seriousness and responsibility of my moments and my place. That's why you have to answer, not your ideas, your opinions. We'll have time for this. Were you permanently hiring? You said, with an arrogant attitude - I would say - that you did within a few days what did not take place in the ESS decades. Just three hundred doctors hired them contractors. IF beds have increased, but little has been increased, because - yet today you have done this - you have just started adding the beds that have next to a respirator. These are not intensive treatment units, as you know. Everyone knows that intensive care units are not only equipment, but mainly personnel, intensive workers, trained nurses. You hired them? As far as I know, you haven't hired anyone. Instead of hiring - we had planned and signed a contract notice for four thousand permanent doctors and nurses - you frozen the procedure. Of course, not only did you freeze the process before the pandemic, you were here coming from this step forward and told us that I would make you rubbish now, because I would propose to you the cooperation of the public health system with private doctors through PPPs, which would make use of private hospitals, structures and infrastructures of the public health system. That was your idea. That was your ideology. There is no doubt about that. Here, let's say that. We when we hear you say about the national health system and what good the national health system is, think that when we were building the units of primary health care, the TOMY, you were coming here and saying that it is a waste of unnecessarily for the public budget and that there is no need for primary health care. When, for years of memorial arrangements, you, your party, Ministers of your resignation, and you yourself were told that we would not have the glory of the troika and Tomsen, but we did them because we believed them - that was your opinion, your neoliberal perception and ideology - you suddenly became defenders of the national health system. But the thing is not only that you did not hire permanent staff, it is that these auxiliary doctors, who end their contracts, let them go, those heroes who gave the battle to the frontline, without being permanent. Of course, he saw the light of publicity and the news that no overtime is paid for. I would not say, therefore, that you have used the time to actually support the health system. With regard to the question of tests, what have you done to prepare another way to get out of quarantine safely, to centralise the management and increase the reagents? What did you do? You just ignored the letters from university institutions that informed you that they have certified laboratories and can provide free of charge for their services. Why? Didn't the scientists tell you that if it were possible during the quarantine that tests were to be carried out only in symptomatic patients, was this not sufficient at any time in the next phase in the phase of the gradual lifting of the measures? The result of this uncertainty or feasibility - I do not know what is happening - is that our country should be in the last number of tests between all the countries of the European Union. The only country we pass is our neighbour Bulgaria. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The consequence of this results is that we go blindly, with our eyes tied, now, in this second phase, to go out of our homes and walk blindly. Ladies and gentlemen, listen, I do not want to be either unpleasant nor to be a specialist, but I am speaking, like all of us, these days with experts and scientists and I must, I feel the obligation to convey the feeling that prevails both in the scientific community and in the Greek society. This is a sense of insecurity, which the announcements you made the day before yesterday, instead of squeezing it down, have brought it down, in particular your almost threatening warning that, so far, we have achieved what we have achieved thanks to your magnanimity - the citizens - but from now on responsibility is individual, it belongs to everyone individually and exclusively to the citizens. The opposite message should have been given, that the citizens have done their duty, and in this respect they have exhausted their responsibility and have already been exhausted by the restrictive measures, and now it is the government's turn to do its own duty and to go with a plan, which will inspire confidence and not insecurity. I'll be a little more specific. What, really, is the explanation for your choice to open high school and high school from 18 May? I'm not talking about the third grade. What is the logic behind this decision? And what is the logic of thinking to still open up primary and kindergartens, a decision which you have fortunately withdrawn at the last minute, I imagine thanks to the reaction that you have felt, and not just of counter-population, but of society as a whole? Honestly, I find it very difficult to understand why in a matter that divides the scientific community you personally have to make a decision that involves risks and risks. Yesterday, I was reading a post, which was also in Greek media, the Italian newspaper 'LA REPUBLICA', where the proposal of the respective Italian Committee of Infectiouss to the Italian Government was published there. I give it to you, too. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] According to this report, the opening up of schools - says the report - will be due to 1/3 of the overall possible new cases that would have occurred if life were to return to normal. Repeat: 1/3. If we opened everything. That's what troubled me. Didn't he hurt you? Also, did Germany's first results for an increase in cases not trouble you? In fact, Germany is the second in the world ready to deal with the pandemic. So why, you take that risk, it's the question. I'll tell you why you take this unnecessary risk, since the schools open up to close in twenty days. Summer holidays are coming. What has led you to this decision? Is it that we change our strategy and adopt the herd's immunity theory, that is to say, that the population has a higher rate of immunity? I can't believe it. I don't dare believe that's it. Obviously, it's not. Most likely, this risk is due to your desire to refresh - and well - laurels winner - you are used to having this desire - and your haste to pretend that we have returned to normality, while you all know - and we all know - that normality will not exist in our lives for a long time yet. The people who listen to us, however, I believe that they want to have convincing answers to critical questions, not just fine words, hypocritical flattery and applause. The day before yesterday, you spoke for fifteen minutes, but instead of explaining the critical questions, you were content with the ID card that March is not May. Okay, we all know that March isn't May. But you didn't tell us why schools in March were health bombs, but in May they were safe for our children. You did not tell us why the use of masks from the population in March was useless up to and including dangerous, but in May it is imposed, and indeed, with a high fine for anyone who is not wearing it. All you have told us is that the responsibility lies with all the citizens. In any case, I do not think that this is a responsibility for leadership. I hope and hope that my concerns and fears will be excessive, but you do not say that, at the least, as if at a high dose of social, party and personal dissatisfaction. However, here I am obliged to make an important point, which arises from your measures and initiatives in the weeks of the pandemic. Mr Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen of the government, your attitude is deported by a more comprehensive strategy - unforgettable of course, but there is in every step of your mind - the strategy to transform this crisis into an opportunity, an opportunity - first to legislate without control, without accountability. For months now, you have been legislating by legislative acts, you have continued to deny parliamentary control and you are making use of the special and derogating parliamentary procedure, which we have all agreed that it will only concern measures on the coronary, but you are making use of the opportunity to pass service amendments, even, of course, to pass critical bills now, I hope, with Parliament, not to fail, but to function properly. Also, to go through regulations that favour large employers and private interests in the health sector, because you have referred critically to our proposal that there should be a general requirement and that the state, the government, should have the option to do whatever is necessary. But you were the ones who increased - you said what we said cost you - the cost of hospitalisation from EUR 800 to EUR 1,600 in one day. You've only given 30 million euros to test private individuals. You gave them to private people, and people didn't have the ability to run tests. But all celebrities, we found out they had a coronary. The people who went through with a flu or that they thought was a normal flu and stayed in their homes, didn't know if they had a coronary because they didn't do a test. That's the reality. It is an opportunity, therefore, to make arrangements that may benefit some interests, some of your great employers and some of your friends, such as the President of the Association of Greek Industrialists, Mr Fessa. Did you suddenly discover that La Poste is the first branch that has been irreversibly affected by the crisis? But, of course, you have next to you in Maximus his former director and his suggestions you apply with religious reverence. But it is an opportunity to establish an undemocratic, uncontrolled and dangerous arrogant totalitarian system of power, which is common secret now, that it has not just party references, but direct references to your face. This - I fear, Mr Mitsotakis - is a Greek version of totalitarianism, the Greek version of 'orbanism' that we see in Europe and we condemn. You'll tell me I'm wrong with you. So, if you say that I am wrong, what do you have in mind when you decide, in the midst of a pandemic, to give uncontrollably, without accountability, without transparency, 20 million euros to the media - what media? - by circumventing the procedures of "GENERAL" to a company that accidentally collaborated with your party in an election to give the money in the beam and uncontrollable manner. Does the press need backup? Of course the press needs backup! Come here to agree together on an amount which needs to be distributed in terms of transparency and criteria for workers who have, in terms of their sales, not uncontrollably, not in terms of opaque EUR 20 million in the middle of a pandemic! Where'd that money go? Where's that money? Are you going to tell us? Why do you abolish “GENERAL”? Why exclude the instruments that you are not fond of from this funding? So now, to let us know about the pandemic and give money to a site based in the United States of America, to let me know about the pandemic there?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u68	'DOCUMENTO'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u69	Yeah, okay, but that's not funny, because if that's not an attempt to buy out - even blackmail, I'd say - to reward the minds and punishment of the 'actuals', what is it? You are therefore taking advantage of pandemic as an opportunity to set up or strengthen relations between dependency and absolute control of citizens' information. If this is not a question of totalitarianism, then we do not understand the words. But if, in the building of information, you are pursuing a policy aimed at supporting or advertising, even depositing the government's work, a project with characteristics both hostile and so barbaric for the social majority that every democratic citizen should be concerned about is being developed on the basis of society. I would say that this is a deeply reactionary, unilateral and anti-popular restructuring of the labour market, firstly by the complete deregulation of labour relations, and secondly, by the cannibalisation of small and medium-sized enterprises, for the benefit of some other interests. On the basis of this plan - not on the basis of some wrong choices - you have turned hundreds of thousands of workers into subsidised unemployed, unsafe and troubled for tomorrow. You have legislated on rotating work, doing the 'half-wage job, half-wage'. And you left, of course, at the same time, uncontrollable redundancies. All this wasn't necessary. This wasn't all legal because of the pandemic. They were your choices, with a clear ideological and social figure. Nowhere in Europe - please tell me if you found it - there was not this model of dealing with the crisis, that is, subsidising contracts of employment and not maintaining contracts of employment. This is your inspiration and your patent, it's your plan.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u70	That's why it worked.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u71	Well, what worked and what didn't work, let the market say. Go out and talk to businessmen, small and medium-sized, go out and report and face the thousands of unemployed, thousands of people who are now living in insecurity. Leave that account. We'll see him. But he's your inspirational plan. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Today you have referred again to the proposals for counter-population. We have tabled an integrated proposal, which at its core was the forward and horizontal support for work, small and medium-sized enterprises, 'invisible' workers, scientists, professionals, artists and all those social groups you have left in their luck. We insisted and insisted on a forward and brave intervention in order to keep supply and demand alive. And you come here today and you talk about 'leaf trees'. Indeed, Mr Mitsotakis, at the summit - which you have held by teleconferencing - when all the leaders of the South demand that money be given to the market, do what Lagard itself has said in the European Central Bank, but also in the Economic Department of the Commission, on the need to market 1.5 trillion euros, do you come out and say that there are no "leaf trees"? Is that your attitude? Are the Southern demands that liquidity be given to the market, that money fall to keep the demand and supply alive, are you talking about ‘leaf trees’? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I would like to mention to you the following: Germany is making interventions over 50% of GDP, France over 25% of GDP, Italy 40% of GDP and you here 3.5% of GDP. Because it's so! With an ideoleptic perseverance you ignore the proposals made by almost all the social actors. We believe that this is a disastrous tactic. And it is a tactic that can have in the back of the mind the perception of transferring the theory of herd immunity to the economy, that is not to support small and medium-sized enterprises and work, to let anyone who has endured to survive and perhaps come back later to support those who have survived. You referred to your plan and said that it is a 29 billion, 36 billion, 36 billion, project. You didn't even bother to study it to make a substantial confrontation. In fact, you have referred to the sacrifices of the Greek people, which are the liquidity pillow that, for the first time in time, while I monitor the modern political history of the country, brings a government to the next day, leaving a strong hold and a strong security against a possible crisis. The usual in this country was to receive either chaos or burnt land or empty funds, as we received in 2015 that we did not have to pay for pensions. You, therefore, had EUR 36 billion, almost EUR 37 billion, of which, as you quite rightly said, the EUR 16.7 billion, was locked in to repay the country's next debt obligations. Therefore, 20 billion euros from the labors and sacrifices of the Greek people as a safety pillow for a difficult moment, as a fuel to keep the Greek economy moving. If added to this and the remaining liquidity, which may be available right now, you are approaching almost EUR 40 billion. I will tell you what we have proposed, precisely because this is an advantage for the country, because the neighbouring countries, the heavily indebted countries, not as much as Greece, but countries with a very high debt, such as Italy, such as Portugal, as Spain, do not have that possibility. In order to meet the immediate needs, they must lend and therefore increase their debt immediately and not only increase - which will indirectly increase, as is ours - from GDP declining. That's what we told you. Of these some 40 billion liquidity ahead of us with a plan to spend 14 billion on the budget. No suspensions of payments, but budget expenditure. About 7 billion to keep the wages, as we said at 100%. You could say, brother, let's be at 70 percent, 80 percent. What are you doing? Half a wage, half a job. You give EUR 7 billion to keep wages in March and May. We said that 3 billion euros should be non-refundable aid to enterprises and 1.5 billion should be granted as a social solidarity allowance, because you only give one part of the long-term unemployed. There are thousands of people who are invisible right now, no one sees them and who don't know how the next day will dawn. That logic has exactly the idea that when you're in a difficult situation, but you have stock to burn, you don't waste it. Aimed to strengthen demand, strengthen supply, so the next day will find us stronger. You ignore our proposal. And what are you doing? You're wasting your time spending the pillow. You spend it on ruthless expenses, but even September will arrive and we will be with thousands of knuckles, we will be with thousands of unemployed, we will be with a recession that we have never seen again in 2008, and we will not have a pillow. This will be your work. Mr Stournaras came out the other day...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u72	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u73	You have Chief. He'll answer later. We're talking. You don't want there to be a rival? In the end we will not talk at all and we will not even speak of our opinion. Mr Stournaras comes out the day before yesterday and says: 'Don't worry, 4% will be the recession', when the International Monetary Fund itself talks about a recession of over 10%, when the Commission itself says that the recession in the South will be 10%, but everyone says that Greece will be a champion in the recession, because tourism is 20% of our GDP. This is the negative juncture we live on. If, Mr Mitsotakis, the recession is 4%, I give you that 4%. But, whatever the shorter writes, it will have your signature and your seal, it will be the remission of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, because of his inertia, his steam, and his inability to predict exactly what the Greek economy needs. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But, all right, you are rather used to the recession, because you had 25% cumulative from 2010 to 2014 and another 15% now, you will reach self-resistance rates, but in the recession and not in real percentages! Look, ladies and gentlemen, we consider this crisis to be an opportunity, but as an opportunity to change the bad texts, as an opportunity to strengthen the real needs of society, as an opportunity to support our fellow people, as an opportunity to inspire all of us from the value of solidarity and not an opportunity to deepen inequality. Of course - and I left this last, Mr Mitsotakis - not as an opportunity for scandalous services, to disperse public money into the pandemic. Because in the last few years what is seen in the light of publicity is, unfortunately, so much that no one can even glean them. Fortunately, I would say that the veil of silence that you are trying to secure in various media is not capable of covering them. We do not know where to start on this matter. I can only refer to the great scandal of the days, which was the subject of training centres. This is not only a scandal because people obviously wanted to serve five or six businessmen who would do all the work and take the 35 million lion share, but the problem is at the core of practice. You humiliated thousands of scientists, free professionals, all those who had electionally made them a flag, the middle class is them, in a degrading process to get a six hundred through a fake - teletraining by learning how to open their computer and how to make a file for lawyers, while at the same time you could give this money directly. And you knew very well that you could give it directly! Because there is now - you all know it - the possibility of reorientating the ESRB programmes and you were very well aware that this money could be given directly. Didn't you know? I went out and you didn't come to answer the question I asked you, of course you choose the territory of your conflict - your right, but the people are judging - but since you're here today and we're here, give me an answer. Because Mr Gerapitris, who came to me as 'instead of it', said that this document I tabled yesterday - which proved that you knew from the European Commission that you could give this money directly to the beneficiaries and not through false programmes - was a document before your activities. Today I would like to present to Commissioner Ferrara, Mr Brutsi, the letter of 18 March, which informed him that the programme could be carried out normally, not through training, but directly to the beneficiaries. But he chose something else. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The question I asked Mr Brutsi was whether he did so alone or in cooperation with you and has not answered. This silence, in my view, is a suspicious silence that exposes you. In any case, it is very simple for you. Say here today: Did you know about this or have you not? Anyway, if you hadn't done it all on his own, why do you keep him in position? Why did Mr Brutsis, after this humiliating process, in which he submitted hundreds of thousands of scientists and after the revelations, which obviously have a scandal smell, appear in his place? What's the message you're giving the other ministers? 'All right, there's nothing wrong with doing any work.' You must answer today because this shadow, while you keep it, will follow you. Of course, as I was saying, there are other issues. Nobody knows where to start, where to stand, where to stop. There are direct assignments from the Ministry of Education from the Ministry of Migration Policy. There are - within introductory - 'friendly' companies that suddenly changed their objects and started taking hundreds of thousands of euros for prison reliefs, and had another object three days ago. There's a mismanagement. There are business that blows up like mushrooms and three days later they get commissions. There's all this. But listen to something. Society is not blind and society sees these things and has not been given to you, it has not been given by anyone - certainly not by us - a white check. Instead of assessing as positive the attitude of all the anti-population parties, which we put back to address the pandemic, we have put human life as a priority, we have not made flags of mistakes and omissions, you come here and you appear as the one who has no reason to answer, to speak, to give answers. For us - and I close with this - the crisis is indeed an opportunity, but it is an opportunity not to try to create profits and damages in a confrontation of political purposes, not for personal and micro-group pursuits, not like you, who live the myth of the soldier or Moses, as a friendly instrument for you, nor is it, of course, an opportunity for 'jobs' to shrink democracy, accountability, parliamentary procedure. But it is a first chance - first of all - to stand before every citizen who is tested, to every family who fears the future and to face the pandemic test together, not to leave anyone alone. It is an opportunity to change priorities and practices, to change perceptions, to bring the social majority to the forefront. It is an opportunity to turn our backs on the policy of depreciation of public space, the logic of market laws, even in sensitive areas, such as health, education, the environment. It is an opportunity to strengthen the solidarity and co-existence links between the social groups. Finally, it is an opportunity to promote and implement a new social contract. Because this crisis teaches us that we need a new social contract in Europe and Greece to go forward, a social contract that in its preamble will write the measures out of the new crisis, based on the fair growth and interests of the many, and on capital, it will describe the country's course towards a fair, democratic tomorrow, with man and his needs at the centre. That is precisely why we will do at least what goes through our hand to create the conditions for this new social contract to make the programming commitment of a progressive government that needs the place, based on a broad democratic and progressive coexistence and which will take the ship out of the rocks again, from troubled waters of recession and social injustice that you once again have, the conservative component, led with your policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u74	Mrs Fotini Gennamata, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have passed the first wave of the coronary test, and we have escaped the great evil, as Mr Chiodra says. We have all been disciplined in the difficults to protect both our health and public health. We have all learned to care more in Greece and this is important and let us keep it. A month and a half now, the Greeks and Greeks prove that, yes, when we are united, we can do it, we know how to set great national targets. We've proved it in the past. We followed the expert advice and supported the "we wait at home". At this point I feel the need to say a good one and thank all the fighters on the front line, all those who have not stopped working self-sacrificingly, so that everyone else can remain safely in our homes. Ladies and gentlemen, now is the time to slowly regain the thread of our lives from where we left it, only that we now have to deal with the coronary and that makes a great difference. Even greater is the government's responsibility in this second phase, because we need to ensure those conditions that keep us safe. As the Prime Minister said, the second phase is based on a purely government plan. Its implementation is, of course, dependent on individual responsibility, but mainly on the effectiveness of the state mechanism. There is the key, as is the scientific documentation of each step. I will repeat what I said a few days ago, that the government's bureaucracy is not, in practice, abolished by Mr Chiodra and the Scientific Committee. I will not dwell on why they thought a few months ago that children have a great deal of contagiousity or why they were telling us that they don't need masks - they may have done bad - but they are now being imposed. I understand that we are going a little further with this unprecedented pandemic: seeing and doing and doing nothing is known in advance. I'll accept that. But without an operational implementation plan, without - finally! - more tests, for which we have been shouting for too long and without mobile primary groups - we have been recommending a specific proposal that has been accepted for months, but still has not been implemented - the lifting of measures is a dangerous exercise. I think it is incomprehensible to change the strategy now, in practice, and adopt the logic of the Johnson type about 'the herd'. We have all agreed from the outset that this is not the national strategy that we are pursuing. Apart from what is said, there is no doubt that it is a risk that the schools will be opened up. Besides, your government officials say it's actually an experiment. At least make sure that the money is given to the school committees, which you carried the burden to ensure all the protective means necessary for the health of both children and teachers and workers in schools. I'm coming to the masks. At the moment, Prime Minister, who are becoming compulsory, there must be strict discretion, because otherwise we will have a shameful gain. There's already at this time when we're talking black market. In addition, at least public services, public spaces and at least supermarkets should be provided free of charge. You have to force them to do this for their clients. At least! Do you know how big the burden is for a four-member family? Most masks are disposable, except those that are washed. How will a family now have a serious reduction in its incomes, its incomes, on a monthly basis? It is therefore an obligation for the state to contribute to this issue. Nothing will be like yesterday in the economy and employment. We have a great deal on our minds and, unfortunately, it is not the first for the country and the people. It's another lift. And we don't start well. We do not start at all when you come here today and ask for the change, speaking of recession and unemployment at the beginning of 2010. When will you finally assume your responsibilities, your responsibilities? Thirty-five billion deficit, you handed over. If you want to talk about trust, you know that trust is built on sincerity and truth. So take responsibility for what the country has lived for, finally ask for an apology from the Greek people, and not to attempt at this time, at the crucial time that all of us have set back, to lay the blame once more! I understand that it is much easier for you to oppose populism, but we will not allow you to do so. So you have an obligation to speak the language of the truth. You owe this apology! The bell rang in our country, Mr. Mitsotakis. See the elements of the ‘ERGAN’ system. In March we had forty-two thousand more redundancies than recruitment in half a month of crisis. Tourism, small and medium-sized ones, farmers are at great risk. Our aim in the Change Movement is to keep society up and alive. If the country's production base is now collapsed, the cost of the crisis will be many and the recovery in the next period will be even more difficult. So we can't build on ruins. At least, that's our position of the Change Movement. We are fighting for two months with responsibility and with very specific proposals. You said yourself before, that we are now lending with the help of the European Central Bank. So, now is the time to make use of this the possibility, so as not to collapse the production base. And if need be, we should put a hand in this famous pillow that Mr. Tsipras did not hand over. The part of the pillow that we can use is what came from the overtaxation of Greek citizens. It's the Greek people's money. And if we have to keep the economy up now, now is the time to make use of them, which we have the backs of the European Central Bank. When are we going to do this? When we don't have them? But then we are surely walking in a new memorandum and you will again have the responsibility! So we need to intervene now. We propose an interim programme to strengthen our defence. Yeah, it's a defensive policy, the intermediate program. But it is absolutely essential. So we will then be able to proceed with the counter-attack with an integrated economic recovery plan, taking stock of the Europeans' final decisions, which I shall then speak about. We are talking about a new change programme. I would therefore like to make a few points about the government's choices, which form an unfavourable reality. Firstly, the Prime Minister and the Government have so far not presented a comprehensive plan either for now or for the aftermath. They shall proceed to fragmentary and inadequate measures, with vague and appropriate announcements. - now they are talking about a package of 24 billion - a sum of measures, deferrals of payments, loans that will be repaid, as if at some point we press a button and everything will start to work normally, and all the companies, which are closed all this time, will be able to respond by magic to everything that they cannot do in these two months. These measures obviously serve - in most cases - the few and the strong. I'll come back to this. What do we see around us? What predominates is the communication exploitation of the pandemic, the one-saleing of information and, of course, the enchanting of the government with public money. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister is a commitment to communication and customer logic. A state of party, a state of the right, is being set up within the coronary crisis, obviously with its own guidance. If that's not the case, answer us. Opacity lasts well. The voucher scandal has Mr Mitsotakis in charge first. We've brought this up. I'm not going to go into these details now. Now we're burning to see what's going to happen. I understand that SYRIZA, who is so awkward and has had no proposal all this time, has nothing else to do: what the Change Movement shows, takes them and makes them a full-fledged one. Let's do what he wants. Everywhere millions of euros have been awarded by opaque procedures and a laundry, legislative acts. Advertising programmes totalling EUR 20 million are awarded to private companies. Very serious problems have arisen in the recruitment procedures of the ERC. Moreover, the issues of democracy arise. The institutions must finally come out of the quarantine. The normal functioning of this House, social dialogue, pluralism in information are essential components of our democracy and I would say a precondition for restoring social and economic life. It is incomprehensible that important bills should come without debated in detail and that all the stakeholders be given the opportunity to express themselves. There are no fast track procedures in Parliament anymore. That's it! Two. Workers and the unemployed are actually left to the margin. Not only do they make mistakes and omissions in the field of work. Don't be ridiculous. There's a very specific plan here. And the responsibility rests with you again, Prime Minister. The Ministry of Labour has already been exposed to teletraining - a "monkey" - incapable of planning measures to prevent the risk of mass unemployment. The Treasury under our pressure and the resonance of our proposal has leaked from what I have heard this afternoon - we will be told more - a work subsidy plan. A plan, however, linked to the expansion of parttime work, with adverse changes in the terms and conditions of workers' contracts. You understand very well what that means. Thirdly, the banks continue their violin. They apply the classic banking criteria they deprive, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises in need, liquidity and loans. Money is being channelled back to the having. Relaunching the small and medium-sized enterprises with these allocations and banking criteria is not going to happen. The government opens the chambers of the courts, relating to auctions and seizures. Only the banks won one more time. Of course, the citizens are still unprotected by the bank's excessive charges, while everyone is heading for electronic transactions. Fourth. Small and medium-sized enterprises are being mocked. They're left to their luck. Small and medium-sized business together with the self-employed are over seven hundred thousand. The two hundred and fifty thousand both employers and six hundred thousand workers are employed. It's the backbone of the real economy. In the measures announced for this category, EUR 500 million has been secured, while for large companies employing over 50 people EUR 7 billion. The euro. The distribution is not just heterogeneous. She's challengingly unfair. The Government of New Democracy leads them to extinction. And that is a decision that finds us completely opposed. You do not have the right, Mr Mitsotakis, of course, to lead to a dramatic shrinkage in the middle class. Five. Farmers have been abandoned in their luck. In government measures farmers remain the poor relatives. In fact, at the time when farmers were seeing their prices collapsed on amnophilics, consumers bought them three times above the price the producer was getting. What are you talking about? There was incredible speculation. Ladies and gentlemen, in the new phase we are going through, the war has two fronts: health and the economy. That is why I am tabling some of the proposals in our mid-term programme today. They are proposals for immediate implementation, in particular, targeted and realistic. Mr President, I ask for your understanding of the time. All the previous speakers spoke at least twice as much as you had given them. I'm starting with the sanitary front and the necessary support of the ERC. I like that. Now everyone is "scathed in the aprons" of the ESS. Everyone wants to say that something amazing was done in this area, which was never able to do the PASOK, which also established it and solidated it and rescued it from the debts with which it was received in 2009. I am going to go back to dentistry because I don't have time to talk about it. It turned out to be the National Health System the most important weapon we had in our hands in this battle. We are absolutely proud of this because it has indelible the seal of PASOK, of our extradition, no matter what you do, no matter what you're saying now. You will not rewrite the story, perfect and complete. Immediately we need more tests. We were shouting for lab requisitions and all to join in a central planning of the state. After you managed to get these most reagents, why haven't you so far done it? We'd have more evidence to move on safely. Now Mr. Chiodras is asking for it. Now that Mr Chiodras asks, I hope you will listen to him and be more effective for everyone's sake. So, finally, the mobile workshops of the primary care network with house visits. Essential upgrading of the National Health System and the strengthening of hospitals - not just in words - and reintroducing them to full operation. Soon we'll start having other losses than patients who can't go to hospitals. Chronic illnesses, but with serious dangers to their lives. Organizing centres for off-seasons virus - we have called it since the beginning of the crisis - and supporting 'Help at home'. To be rationally managed by donations. I am pleased to hear that the Minister of Health will inform us in the next few days. Until now, we don't have a picture. I believe that an independent authority should handle donations, with absolute accountability in the House through the Committee on Social Affairs. To become a special plan for monitoring and protecting vulnerable groups in particular in vulnerable structures. We were yelling and we didn't hear. We would have avoided both the problems in Larissa and Kranidi and, of course, the deaths in private clinics. Take action on the islands in the summer and hire me if necessary. We don't have an uptake picture. Where'd all those people hired to the National Health System go? I hope the Minister will let us know this afternoon. Of course, as a practical recognition of their offer to introduce sanitaries into heavy and unhealthy. These are urgent emergency measures. Of course there is, more than ever, a need to regenerate the National Health System. I don't have time to talk about this. I hope in dentistry something more I can say. So I come to the front of the economy. I would like to put forward six specific proposals. First, a work subsidy programme. The program we have proposed is processed, bold, costly. It concerns the maintenance of jobs for a million workers in firms affected. The state, in a very simple and transparent way - has all the elements of "ERGANE" - covers 40% of the wages of workers for six months, but on two conditions, however, very important. It's not in the finest letters to override. The first condition is the prohibition of redundancies and the second condition is the non-favourable conversion of workers' contracts. From what the Prime Minister told us, I understand that you will be subsidising the wages of the workers that you recognize in advance and you legalize that they will enter part-time while they were not before. So you establish the elastic forms of work and when your subsidy is done, the workers will be faced with a new reality that will have the seal of your Government, your signature and your approval and not just of employers. I wonder what criteria. How? Where? Everybody? That's not just a service. It's a gift. The measure we are proposing is completely costly. Its amount is 2 billion and can be covered by 1.5 billion from the 'SURE', to which you have also referred. We know that there are 600 million unreservedly in the European Social Fund. Secondly, support for the unemployed. No unemployed person registered with the OAU without unemployment benefit for six months. Of course, subsidized training programmes, seriously this time, qualitatively and transparently. Thirdly, support for small and medium-sized enterprises. We highlight their crucial role in growth and employment in our country. Of course, we all know that they are severely affected by restrictive measures. No advance payment can be requested on the basis of revenues from 2019 when it will be dramatically reduced for this year. The government's advance is just not enough. In particular, for this year, the advance payment of tax for those affected by the crisis must be zero for the remaining 50%. The tax corresponding to any actual revenue will be paid after liquidation in instalments. At the same time, the reduction of tax rates from 24% to 20% within 2020 and a sustainable solution to the issue of cheques. I've been talking to all of us, small and medium-sized, farmers. The question of cheques is very important. Responsibility must remain with the issuer by granting the loan banks, as much as it needs to pay. Otherwise the market will collapse and especially the food chain, which is at risk. Fourthly, protection of the first home of weaker borrowers from auctions. Personally I find it incomprehensible that the funds start to fly out of their homes. I think it's completely inhuman. I have heard your suggestions. After the very heavy pressure we have exerted on this matter, you come to make a hole in the water. You are extending to this failed system that you voted for. You described yourself a moment ago that she was a loser. In fact, the evidence you presented is not accurate, because a few days ago Mr Stavros said that out of the three thousand hundred and ninety-eight cases that were adopted, arrangements were made for only eight hundred thirty. Good, good! Remain another three months of this failure to regulate another eight hundred thirty, while the problem is huge. We are not saying that the poor payers should be covered, but give a serious extension to the protection of the first home, as the PASOK had done, and come here to the House to discuss in the intergroup, which I have asked you and have accepted all the parties - apart from New Democracy - a definitive, sustainable and fair solution to this problem, because you know that red loans will be launched in the next period. As for red loans, what to say. Since 2016 we have recommended Bad Bank and then they fell to eat me by saying "the militant genitalist, what is it he says?" A few days ago, the Governor of the Bank of Greece said it over four years ago. Only all these four years have been lost, both responsible for SYRIZA and the New Democracy. Fifthly, special programmes for farmers. I spoke before about the value of the primary sector, or rather, to say it better, of the agri-food sector, because it is also in processing. We therefore propose an immediate advance of 50% of the aid in May, with the activation of the De minimis regulation for farmers, fishermen, fish farmers, farmers, who are brutally affected. Also, a subsidy for wages and wages to work unemployed registered to the OAS as land workers. Sixth, support programme for tourism. The pandemic crisis particularly affects tourism, with, as you well know, the entire Greek economy and indeed, over time. A special plan is needed to make use of the brand of Greece and increase its competitiveness. First of all, we propose in this specific plan that the following should be included: measures to enhance the competitiveness of tourist enterprises, such as a zero tax advance for 2020 and a suspension of debt payments and a reduction in VAT for two years in the focus and accommodation of 6% and other tourist services at 13%. I would remind you that the catering shops up to 1 June, according to your plan, remain closed and are being destroyed. Repeal for two years of the end of the night and of the increased VAT on the Aegean islands. To stimulate liquidity for re-launching with state guarantees and loans, and of course, targeted promotion campaign in cooperation with the EOT and the relevant tourism actors. This work has already begun and it's started well. They need backup. Also, a large social tourism programme with incentives to move families, at least for one year. Greece is a safe country and must remain, so we must claim a protocol and certificates from the European Union for controlled health movements, otherwise tourism will not freeze for this year. Given that the vast majority of half the millions of seasonal workers, mainly tourism, but also foodism, will not be able to obtain the conditions for unemployment benefit in 2020, there must be two changes: more flexible conditions and an extension of grant time from the unemployment fund. Ladies and gentlemen, I have repeatedly spoken about a change of course, which is also needed for Greece, but also for Europe. With this Europe we are not going forward and the future of the Union is no longer judged, let everyone understand it. It is time for a new European treaty and our aim is to move on to a European federation. In Europe, we are not commended, we are demanding. It needs new money, innovative tools, non-conventional solutions for the non-conventional crisis that we live in and is not the responsibility of either of us. Therefore, a EUR 1.5 trillion programme for all of Europe, in short a Marshall European project. Transfers and not loans to the Member States, which mean new Memorandums and suspension of the Stability Pact for three years. Mr. Mitsotakis, come out in front of this race in Europe, not behind the backs of Macron or Pedro Sanchez. We are giving the battle through the Socialist Party every day, a battle that is not easy, because until some time ago we have had very great contradictions between the socialists of the North and the South, but for the sake of the pressures of the South, serious steps have been taken. Do it in the People's Party too, you have a responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, every great trial, every crisis counts our boot, the real one and not the one that propaganda creates as a shadow. From the first moment on, we have chosen our own path, the path of the progressive opposition that the country needs, which supports what is positive, which proposes what must be done and not done, which criticises injustices and failures, which protects the interests of the non-preferential, the workers, the weak, because they must not pay the marble and this crisis. That's our DNA, our DNA, our paradigm DNA. Returning to everyday life brings with it great problems and major changes. How to identify ourselves in a changing world, it is obvious that everyone will do it with their own stigma, because now is the time to return politics. Not all are colourless and isotopic. We are experiencing a violent technological transformation, which obviously has benefits, but it also has costs. It raises inequalities even within developed states, and that is the great risk we need to see and heal quickly. But that's our choice. Your choice, obviously, is in the long run to leave these inequality, because it is none of your business. For conservatives the answer seems to be the same: Return to the regularity of austerity and market worship. People are embarrassed, but it is certain that, in desperation, they will cultivate isolationism and nationalism. For us Socialists, it is clear that our principles and values are being vindicated and that we all see it, and that is why it is clear that all this time, as well as the next, we will live through many imitations. Many in the words will try to represent the socialists and the social democrats, but let the Greek people be careful, because bad imitations have paid them dearly, to heed for their future, because there are many who want to hide behind words socially and in practice with their policies to lead things to the strengthening once again of the market and of the powerful at the expense of some more weak ones. There is no doubt that everyone is now asking for a more state. His role and importance in protecting the citizen have been recognised, because it has proved to be a fact that the markets themselves cannot do that. The private sector, which had not felt the need to support the state, today in the talks we have clearly said that 'yes, we do admit that we cannot ultimately solve all the problems on our own'. They're colossal, I don't know if next year they'll be open. So it is no longer the state, which is demonised for all suffering, but what guides citizens' steps in this very difficult balance that they have to cross into an uncertain future. "Uncertain," said George Gennimatas, "is the future for those who do not look forward." We look forward to and work for this future. It returns, therefore, a social democracy that was smart, flexible, human, determined to break the ties to neoliberalism, because it turned out that all the previous time that it did so simply strengthened him and fueled him with ideas and proposals that were finally fruitful of the parties of the right and of the centre right. The aim today of the Social Democrats is at last to focus on the great "l want" of people, the life of citizens, health, education, work, the environment with a strong seal of democracy, justice and solidarity. You can be sure, then, that the part of the change, which has made all the major reforms in this place, on which we are relying today, will come out just and much stronger. We will take the lead again because time is ahead, so that nobody stays behind and we write together the new social contract with the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u76	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the procedure is followed by the former colleague, Mr Athanasios Kontaxis, from Pramanton Ioannina. I assume, Mr. Contaxis, that this is unprecedented. You didn't live in Transmigration, with so few and such precautions, but we'll deal with it. We welcome you. Mr. Koutsoubas is called in Stepma, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, the JRC has been facing this unprecedented health crisis with a high sense of responsibility. We have adapted our action so that we can contribute to the protection of public health. The same did, of course, for all the Greek people, adjust their lives to protect and protect themselves, observe the disciplined and determined instructions of specialists. What was won so far was, first of all, won at all his own sacrifices. At the same time, however, we said that individual responsibility must be based on an integrated state health protection plan, on the protection of the rights of all workers, because if the primary basic state responsibility does not stand up to the great requirements of the period, if - much more so - the time gained so far for the shielding of the public health system, which - as you yourself have admitted to - is at a very bad level, the situation can be uncontrolled, especially in view of a possible new wave of pandemic in the coming period and especially since the autumn, as the experts predict. We are talking about the public health sector which all of you, and those of the New Democracy, the PASOK before you and those of SYRIZA, have left intact on the brink of collapse, with the sanitary to give this battle with great sacrifice. We do not jeopardise, but we ask you: can you rule out that the increased victims in a number, which were in other states, in relation to the overall population - this tragic result - will exist in Greece as well, just over a longer period of time? None of you can rule it out, obviously. This is why the strengthening of the Public Health System is urgently taking place with mass recruitment now of permanent doctors, nurses, other health care and the supply of physical personal protective equipment for all workers in hospitals. The end of the quarantine will also reveal that a number of critical sites and structures, such as workplaces, education, public transport, are completely unprepared. It cannot be possible for workers' health protection measures to be stopped outside the gates of factories, supermarkets, hospitals, other large workplaces where there is indeed a very large crowd. It is not possible for workers to go on a daily basis in public transport in order to move about their work because of the reduced routes which - not to fool each other - are not going to increase too much. Schools - even high school and high school or even primary schools - cannot open up without the necessary conditions, the conditions of protection, without the necessary measures and instruments which, of course, teachers and students must supply for free. Justifiable, then, parents, teachers, students, students are concerned about their opening and their concern is not, you know, in the air. Here you in the pandemic filed a bill that goes up - if possible! - the number of pupils in kindergarten and primary schools per school hall in twenty-six instead of reducing them. We tell you clearly: Leave this unhealthy management of misery aside at last. Stop playing with the struggles of the world. Schools must meet all health and safety conditions with continuous capacity to clean up during school hours, with special care for those of teachers - even with special permission - and for those of students belonging to vulnerable groups. Even massive tests you need to see to be the whole world of education more sure. The world of the educational community, therefore, has specific needs and demands for the present day and is aware of the situation from the inside because it has experienced this school of vacant children as sardines in one class. It is also your work, gentlemen of the New Democracy, but also of SYRIZA, who may have said that the schools will not be opened without a single claim, because he has his nest caught for what we are living today. Also, the lifting of the quarantine will reveal far more that labour rights have received a overwhelming blow. Any anti-Semitism you and BSE had in your patronage, and you have the courage to speak of supposedly unprecedented support measures for workers. Workers from industries and workplaces who daily report these miserable working conditions, all kinds of employers' practices, threats, blackmail, all they see is the provocative support of great employers. You're provocative. Make sure you don't know that all this time hundreds of businesses are getting rid of staff, putting thousands of ice workers on parole of contracts. You do not know that with a tool to rotate work, the employment of a few days is squeezing out workers by intensification of work. Didn't you really hear anything about the payout, the paid-off delay, the overtime and the days off? But who, really, see you? Here you do not pay the newspapers to the people, otherwise - in your own words - heroic hospital doctors. What can be expected from private sector entrepreneurs? At the same time, cleaning workers in hospitals remain unpaid for months. Their contracts are over. The ones you call "heroes" in the proclamations, the ones on the front line, are due to them all in the middle of the pandemic. For them, really, are you saying that you're looking into their eyes"? Do you not know that with business support measures, i.e. differences in aid, facilities and financial instruments, you have solved your hands in some big business sharks? Not counting April, on the basis of official evidence, more than a hundred and five thousand redundancies were made either directly or in contracts ending or with the so-called voluntary departures, as forced final resignations are, of course. Haven't you ever heard of the hundreds of redundancies of workers who've been working at airports for years? Who can now check what is going on in the workplace, since even this incomplete labour inspectorate's control mechanism you put it on ice? Don't tell us about the conditions that companies must respect. You know very well that entrepreneurs are obliged to take back to work the same workers whose contract has been suspended for as long as government measures for the pandemic are in force, that is, for forty-five days. In just Greek, that is, what you are doing is making it easier for them to lay off these workers, after they first make use of favourable regulations, exemptions and funding, businessmen themselves. In two months you gave the firm as many antique weapons as you didn't give it all the years of the memorial. Of course, the lifting of the quarantine will reveal that the capitalist economy enters into a deep and uncertain time and duration of crisis. In fact, after a long time we have heard that truth from you too, Mr Mitsotakis. After weeks of trying to convince the Greek people that the economic crisis is a small parenthesis to normality and growth, now you can only admit the obvious, that your very favourite freedom of the capitalist market and not, of course, socialism, socialised production, the central scientific project for the economy you spend is the one that has brought this economic crisis, which now - in your own words again - will be deep and global. So your dearest capitalism brings all this up, highlighting his rot and all his inhumanity. The argument you're trying to serve is that it's the coronary that froze the economy and brought us to the crisis. But the facts themselves are more stubborn. Since 2019, the global economy has been in a slowdown situation and the European Union's economy has been practically stable, while forecasts for 2020 have been essentially talking about worsening the situation both in the European Union and in the United States of America and in China. We've told all of you from this one step over and over, but it looks like one of your ears was coming in from the other. The krone, ladies and gentlemen, has simply brought to the surface, with a strong and violent, if you like, a way of definitely these enormous contradictions of capitalism itself, of the large-scale overcompensation of funds that cannot simply be invested. In our country, the economic crisis cannot be much more profound again. The reason for this is that the development of the domestic capitalist economy has been based on the infamous extrovert that you and the previous government of SYRIZA are methodically cultivating, of course, always loyally following the BSE directives and the other employers' organizations. We as a JRC warned, both you and Mr. Tsipras, that the course you have taken is unpopular, is dangerous. We were only telling you a few months ago, at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, when you were fighting with SYRIZA about who of the two had the greatest contribution to this extroversion, that this course that you both follow in the economy exposes multiples the domestic economy, and in the medium and long term, to international fluctuations. And we have pointed out that if a crisis occurs next time, it will be very acute in the Greek economy, in which tourism, transport, have a very important role. And we've been confirmed. Even the bills you have brought for education - to go further - and for the environment they are revealing the whole situation. Let's say, the environmental bill practically itself was written by industrialists a year ago to be able to obtain environmental permits from individuals. Thousands of self-employed micro-enterprises in commerce, catering, tourism see them compress, on the occasion of the coronary pandemic by large companies. Electronic commerce scans and concentrates trade movement. As far as hotels are concerned, you are closing the small hotels, the rooms in order to understand less the crisis in tourism by the large hotel groups. The focus will eventually work on asphyxiating terms and thousands of small businesses will put a padlock on. We hear SYRIZA say his view is confirmed, that great state intervention is required and that you of the New Democracy cannot do it because you are neoliberal. However, SYRIZA is well aware that the urban management mix chosen at a time is not determined by the particular political views of each individual government, but by the needs themselves, by the capital priorities themselves at a given moment. It's ironic if you think about it, of course. You, gentlemen of the New Democracy, denounced SYRIZA that he was applying neoliberal solutions, but that he did not believe in neoliberalism and that was why he was not effective enough. And SYRIZA replied that because he doesn't believe him, he can apply him in a more prologue way, anyway. Now, we have one, not to say full, reversal of roles. Of course, it does not impress us. If nothing else, this irony shows one thing, your strategic converging, committed to the service of a rotten and corrupt system. Depending on the period, the mixture in the economy must be more, sometimes less expansionary, so the color of the political manager is very small, after all, of importance. Because, in the end, the state and its policy cannot be polite in these and under any circumstances within the framework of this system. He can't even make concessions he made in the past, with other international powers, but in other circumstances. What does SYRIZA also say? It says that the solution can be given through Eurobonds, which will bring about a progressive European Union. However, Eurobonds cannot change neither the European Union's strategic objective, which is the competitiveness of its monopolistic groups, nor cancel the crisis. The debate on Eurobonds, the kronebonds, at least, is simply expressing the contradictions between the groups in the different states about who will lose more than the crisis. The French and Italians are calling on the Germans to pay more. You have also remembered now the governments of the countries of the South, which are well known to everyone that they have committed to the detriment of their peoples over the past years and now during the pandemic period. You see Spain, you see Italy, with different management mixes, but with the same result. Mercy! You are negotiating with the European Union, with the institutions, for a few months' delay in the auctions and seizures, what you have told us today. You are slapping the strategic malicious payments of thousands of households and very small businesses, which are in fact the victims of the previous crisis and the anti-grass policy of the memorials and cannot pay. You continue on the path of the previous government of SYRIZA, which started extinguishing the incomplete protection measures and proceeded to electronic auctions. The state subsidy arrangement for certain loans burdens the taxpayers, the employees and the self-employed. Unfortunately, there are no magical solutions that can serve both the interests of creditors and banks, who want to get rid of red loans on the one hand and over-paid households and taxpayers on the other. The real relief of workers is the proposal for a law which has been tabled in good time by the JRC and which you have all rejected. This proposal was to be voted on by the House. The Scylla of the financially tight European Union is no different for the peoples of Harybdis, the Federation of the European Union, which Mrs Gennimata once again remembered as an alternative, with a single budget and even more tradition of national sovereignty in it. No change, we tell you, in the mix of fiscal and monetary policy, of any new Marshall plan, of any digital state services, is actually not a progressive reform of the system, which results in our people serving its interests and, of course, they do not relieve this system under any circumstances, even if all or some of them are made, from their huge deadlocks and from the upcoming crisis. As was the case in 2009. Capitalism calculates people's lives and needs, mainly based on the profits of monopolies, a few. That's in his DNA and nothing else. That's why we're saying it's not reformed with a few dimes. It's only from a depth that changes, from a depth it's overthrown. Just like that, honestly. But what will mainly reveal the end of the quarantine is what the pandemic itself has shown. The real political problem of the country, the huge deadlocks of the system and the development path that is being followed. It will ask even more urgently the question: development by whom and for whom. To this question you have all answered, and the gentlemen of the New Democracy and SYRIZA. You have responded with your works and as a government alternating both, it goes without saying, but as an opposition again. You both made the opposition and the government. Your choice was the degradation, commercialisation of the public health system, with PPPs orgasming the private sector. It was your choice that Greece should not have a state-owned pharmaceutical company and be ballast in international markets for the supply of health material. Your choice was the merges of schools, the twenty-five sections in schools, the armies of assistant teachers, the vouchers through private training structures. Your choice is the flexibility in the labour market and whoever can withstand. Your choice was to undermine the country's production capacities, industrial units such as LARCO, the undermining of agricultural production to open the road, is assumed, for the extroversion of the economy, that is to say, the great dependence on tourism and shipping, in general, transport, which increases the risks ahead of the crisis. Your choice was the memorials, these useful tools in time of crisis for the capital, so that they stay and then in a phase of a possible recovery, if they come. Your choice is the European Union's strategy, which now proves how isolated one country can be in such circumstances, when in competition it is desperately seeking even health material or other supplies. Your choice is to caging refugees and immigrants in our country so that you do not collide with the European Union and your other allies. Your choice is to participate in NATO and the United States planning in the region, costing us more than EUR 4 billion a year. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] And when we were talking about the modern needs that the people can satisfy, based on the country's productive potential, you said that all of this is maximistic that it is not realistic that it is utopian. Yours minimalist and realistic, however, we have lived through them, the Greek people have lived in them for years now. She's always giving you time credit, she's patient, she's trying to bear. But when? Once the strengths end. And above all tolerances are transformed into a racing stimulus of resistance, changes and radical twists. Thank you. The rest in my dentistry. I was the best in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u78	The most concise, Mr President. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like, starting today's speech, to express my grief for the image presented by the Greek Parliament. I say that with soul pain. If the other Presidents cannot bear four hours to listen to the Presidents of the parties, I do not think today's speech was necessary. Each came and said his own - he does not listen to the opponent, he does not respect the presence of his opponents - just to make his party special. I'm telling you, every president who comes speaks and leaves. It is disgraceful that Members of Parliament also have the floor - because their President is leaving - and they are blocking - within or outside the introductory part of the House. We are talking about a very important issue. It's not pandemic the major issue, it's all about the economy. I would say that it is much more important, Mr Prime Minister, than our budget. I have to say once again that you have to submit it from the outset to the budget you submitted in December. Because he's been derailed. It's no longer the case. We have an emergency. Unfortunately, however, we are sitting here talking only to address our party audience. I'm sad, I repeat. The parties' presidents must - at least once a month come here or once a month - sit five or six hours to listen to opponents. It's respect for the opponent, but also knowledge of what the opponent says. You could hear something different, something that the President of the SYRIZA Party, PASOK, KINAL, KKE, Mer25, the Greek Solution, of the New Democracy did not think. We don't all know it all. Let's get something from the others. [[At this point the President-in-Office takes over the President of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS]] I start like this and go to my speech today. Prime Minister, I was very pleased to hear you referred to Thucidis at some point in your speech. That's a great report. I must remind you, however, that Thucidis of the Epitaph refers to something quite different from what you said. He is referring to Athens and to the same one who left a city - state self-sufficient for peace and war. I'd say it's unlucky historically - because I'm an archaeologist, a historian - the selective reference to Thucidis. Because if we refer to Thucidis, neither you nor PASOK nor SYRIZA, you left yourself alone and ready for peace in Greece. It's not today's problem. You're not even a year of Prime Minister. But I am referring to the time-consuming presence of your party. So, I'm saying it was a bad report. I'll put it in the Minutes, if you want. He's here. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The "conservation of the good above the property" is exactly what Pericles says. Let's actually go. You spoke, Prime Minister, about a fair burden sharing. I ask the Greek Prime Minister: Prime Minister, for 10 years the Greek people have been paying for them. Because, in this unpleasant new burden of pandemic and unpleasant economic events that will come, it is not the citizens' fault. It is not the citizens' fault for the pandemic or the measures that will never take any government seriously. Because we're also going to put forward proposals here. Because we're not just here to criticize. I regret the leaders of the rest of the parties, who have constantly heard them make criticisms and suggestions only too few to infinitely. If we want democracy to be enriched, it must be enriched by proposals. What has troubled me in particular, Prime Minister, is the plan for auctioning. Why would it be three, Prime Minister? Can you tell me? Why don't you make them a year like you did to the chosen canalarchs? You told them they wouldn't pay anything, and next year we'll see what they'll pay. Do the same for the auctions. That is to say, transfer it for the time being. I say this because we have a whole proposal for auctions. We have not only talked about Bad Bank as a party. We have submitted our entire analysis programme. Oh, no. There's another way. If you cannot, all auctions are suspended for one year. And next year we'll do what the funds do, the New Democracy, the KINAL, but also SYRIZA. How much does the fund buy it? He buys it with 3%.5%.10%. Charge 15% you. I'll be with you again. I have one question, and I repeat it, because I listened carefully. You spoke about tourism, Prime Minister. You said that the aim is to reduce the negative consequences. The target is excellent. Will you tell us how? Because I, too, intend to be the President of the United States, or I may want to be something else. I can't find the way. The way I want to hear from the government, not the target. This is not a pre-election period - unless it is and I do not know it - where you will set targets. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Implementation of policy means a way. I have this goal, and I want that way to go to my goal. This is the rationale of the Greek Solution. You said, Mr President-in-Office, 'leaf trees'. I fully agree with you. There are no ‘leaf trees’. Don't be fooled. But after a while, I heard you give back money. How did it happen - why are you a serious politician, I have known you for years - to say that there are no "leaf trees" and to address SYRIZA and then a few minutes later to self-determination and to identify yourself by speaking of benefits? In the end, Prime Minister, the way you do it, there will be no 'leaf trees', but no money or trees. Because I want you to point out to me the way, not the target or the 'I'm going to do'. The 'will' does not work, at least in the production process. There is also the three-month extension. I guess you didn't hear me before. As far as the auctions and the quarterly extension are concerned, what does your Minister mean? That after three months, the borrower who doesn't have to eat today, will his pocket be filled with money? Will his pocket have to pay? Where's he going to get them? You are talking about a subsidy scheme. I heard. You're talking about a bridge program, a subsidy. But again, you're not telling us the way. Tell us how this is going to happen so we can know. To be able to tell the Greek who lives in Kosani, Crete that you have a red loan, but the Prime Minister said after three months he has found the way - and he is - to relieve you. Not giving a little bit of hope to someone, saying that you will do this without saying how. It's important to convince us. Also, there's something that bothered me, Prime Minister. You came here, you told us five things. You told us, however, that the Ministers would inform you of the measures this afternoon. Why, Prime Minister? What are we talking about here then? You said the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Development would say some things this afternoon. Couldn't the Prime Minister say it today? And do I have to wait this afternoon to see how? Will they tell us the details this afternoon? I want the details to criticize the Prime Minister. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] How will it be, Mr. Comrade? Will I wait for the Minister to let me know if I can get a press release and make a review? Wrong route. That is my opinion. I might be wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u80	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u81	I can't have a dialogue with everyone. So you're here to let us know. But at the end of the day, your ministers will inform us. All right, this afternoon around 19:00 with 20:00, we'll get a press release. It's going to pass in the change because the media control it. And neither is the Greek Solution nor the Mer25, nor the SYRIZA nor the KINAL. We're gonna get a press release and no one's gonna play it, Prime Minister. Here I ask for your grace and your help. Pick up the phone as Prime Minister and talk to the PSE yourself. I won't say about the channels. You're putting ads on the channels. You're right, it's your right. That's how SYRIZA did "Groups", pastures, etc. You're doing it. Take a phone, however, and say you can't show New Democracy all day. Not all day from morning until night I see all the ministers of the New Democracy parade. This is where Kathimerini was annoyed, which, as a newspaper, is a co-chairman. And he said he'd better not talk to the ministers, but act, work. He said, "KATHMERINA" wrote it the day before yesterday. Every morning you open a channel you'll see Adoni, Mr. Stakoura - less of course - and all the ministers are paralyzing. It's not a TV star parade. The Minister's doing a job. After all, they all have a job. And this job is either a MP or a minister under the office of Prime Minister or a citizen better. To work. So take a phone, show the rest of the parties. I see a news report and I hear what the Prime Minister said and what the Minister said. Then they throw a wedge of SYRIZA, a little of KINAL, little KIC - the Secretary of the KIC has left - and infinitely for Mera25 and us. We're nonexistent. This is no accident, Prime Minister. It's not fair either. Because I know you're doing well, you can find a way here to call the President of the PSE, anyway. Democracy cannot work like this. How will the voice of the Greek Solution, of the Day25, of the JRC and of the other parties be heard? I'm talking about everybody. We need to understand what's important at some point. I heard the good presidents, who don't give us the pleasure of being here, they came, they talked and they left, they talk about recruitment. I can say: hire two hundred thousand Greeks tomorrow morning. To recruit all Greeks." But they didn't tell me where the money would come from for that. It is not a question of auctioning populism by saying 'to recruit'. It is important that I have the way to ensure that these recruitments do not become a new barbaric in the already burdened Greek economy, which is bankrupt and not to be mocked. I didn't hear any way, I didn't hear any suggestions. That's what bothers me most. Now we are going to the other part, Prime Minister, which, unfortunately, you have allowed. I say 'unfortunately', because you are a serious politician and allowed them. Listen: "You can't leave home for no reason," experts told us, "but if you have to go out, then you can go out doing a paper." 'All shops', Prime Minister, you told us, 'but some shops will be closed'. "The gloves will not help you," you said all together and yelled, "but they may even help." They're all the strangers that messed up the world. They've been confused by children. 'This virus will disappear in the summer'. It was said by many infectious and epidemiologists, "but perhaps it will stay forever or perhaps come in September." "We will remain locked until we reach the immunity of herd." Yes, which means that everyone needs to be infected, but remaining locked in our house. It's all contradictory, it's all different. Do you know what he's done to the world? In addition to the terrorism suffered by the Greek Prime Minister, I would ask you to listen to me - and I am honestly going to say this straight away, and I am going to be briefed by various types of information. Listen: 'The virus does not affect children, except those that are ill'. I heard it from a university professor on a Greek channel. My uncle hears it in the village and says: what does that man say? "We took the virus from the animals, but the animals cannot be contaminated." That's what they said. It's things that have been said. Listen, because some of you are disgusting, all you know what they're doing? They're rejuvenating the civic logic. So you want to drive the citizen? So, we're saying, if you don't get sick, you have to wear a mask. A few months ago, we shouldn't have worn a mask. Now we have to wear a mask. Indulgently now we have masks. Before we didn't, we shouldn't have to wear masks. So not all of this is directed at beings, unfortunately, Prime Minister. Let's go to the rest. Look, Prime Minister, I find it a bit suspicious that the entire political system has fallen on the Greek Orthodox Church for ten to fifteen days and everyone wanted to close the churches, not to hear the bells, not to hear the loudspeakers, not to hear the priest, not to do the divine function, not to do anything. If I are to protect Greece and the citizens, I understand that, and I hear that with great respect. At the same time, at the same time in the previous days, however, mosques normally operated. And the loudspeakers were working, and the imams were up. Everything was real. Whoever doesn't believe I'm presenting the videos to them, but also the reports from our Thrace. I'm telling you, it's from our Thrace. You come, Prime Minister, curiously, suddenly, because Ramadan started five to six days ago, and you say the churches should open now. That's a coincidence, I'd say, a strange coincidence in my mind. I can't interpret it. In all likelihood, the government could not close the mosques, the government could not prohibit Islamics from giving more than the minaret and allowed the Greek churches. I ask: What right and what scientist told me that the loudspeaker is carrying the coronary? What scientist told me, I'll just say, that the epilepsy couldn't make a ride? He's carrying the coronary? Or for the divine function by themselves? What scientist told me that? Because I want to listen to this scientist carefully. Because neither with loudspeakers nor bells nor with functions is the coronary transferred. So this selective reference, particularly from a conservative - centre-right party, will you, liberal? - that keeps up with customs, customs and traditions, it seemed very strange to me. So, I say again, Prime Minister, you feared that you could not shut down the mosques for that, and you opened the churches. That shows you're also unfair. I want to say something and I want you to listen to me. A great politician, Prime Minister, and great governments are the ones with great and unresolved problems that exist every day, make them look small, become small and easily resolved. This is the great politician, Prime Minister. Not to overthrow a problem and come back and say 'we have received it from the previous ones'. And I'm not talking to you, everyone did this, the previous ones, the previous ones, the previous ones. It's always the previous ones. Because we live in 2020, this must be stopped. Because first a man is shown, Prime Minister, he cannot one day - I will show it to you now because it is your Minister - Chardalias who is released with a mask and the other without a mask. It's an example. I have them here with dates. One day, Mr. Chiodras will come out of me, without a mask and the other will come out with a mask. One day, Chardalias will take a picture of me with the Ministry's General Secretariat with a mask and no mask. I do not say that for you, you are not responsible to God. But some people have an official seat, and I've got too many photos. I won't say about the protossalt trixate. Because with the psalmist, the coroner is carried, but with the Protossalt, no, to understand your contradictions! And I won't say it's your fault for what happened outside the Maximus Hall. The reporters were on each other. But they are images that, if you like, the prestige that our country should have in a pandemic, not even you, the possibility of saying "citizen sit at home, guess." It can't be done. You cannot, on the one hand, tell the citizen "Hold your house, guess" and, on the other, do squirms in the triad of Protossalt, which, as a gyro, was running in Athens and told us "we are still alive". Okay, we know, we're still alive. It's all these things that really are, Prime Minister, they are disturbing. You've been inviting the polls here a while ago. You're absolutely right. It is a very important moment to see that the New Democracy and you personally record 83% acceptance and positive comments. Do you know, Prime Minister, that history, unfortunately, is reproduced in a strial? The exact same and better percentages were taken by Mr. Tsipras in 2015, 87%. And you know, unfortunately, from 'Ozanna' to 'cross', crucify Him' is a step in this Greece. So is always, over time, history has shown it. I hope you don't suffer it, clearly things. Why? For the sake of our country. Have it all go well, make it work and applaud you, if you succeed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u82	The 'cross' in politics has a different meaning. We have a cross of preference.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u83	Yeah, vote. It is also a volley, Mr President, but it can be more. You know, there's a volley, the boulder that was shooting, and there's the volley the other one. Let's get down to the point. So I say, Prime Minister, that some things, unfortunately, especially with what is happening in the media are annoying and I will say it. I hear we are being bombarded by an ad, which has cost many millions of euros, Prime Minister. It's the 'we're waiting home'. Okay, it was an idea, you made it happen. Why don't you make a better idea? In order for the Greeks to stay at home, there must be Greece. In order to stay Greece, Prime Minister, and really stay Greece, do a promotional spot and say "Take Greek products, support Greek products, only Greek products". Italy has already done so since yesterday, and unfortunately Turkey is not an example for me, but Turkey is doing so too. Make a spot, and I'm sure of all the channels. To get the citizen to actually get Greek products and not imported. Greek milk, Greek cheese, which is about EUR 10 billion, some say 8 to 7 that imports of meat, milk and other products and we will reduce the trade deficit. They're just things. There should be no auctions to stay at home or stay at home. If there are no auctions, in order to stay at home, there must be Greece. If we want Greece to exist, there are proposals that can be made. Spot, bomb with Greek products. Push the supermarmals with only Greek products. It's not hard. They did it in other countries. I don't want to talk about the masks or launch shots that SYRIZA did. All right, we produce masks. A friend of the New Democracy, the industrialist, what's his name, Dabelis? - he did a production. I wish there were ten other productions, twenty other productions, twenty other, thirty local productions. Produce products. You want a mask, a respirator? We should produce here. It's important. I heard Mrs. Gennamas talking about honor. You know the problem on the Greek political scene, Prime Minister, is that they don't know the basics, not Mrs. Gennimata, but generally. You cannot impose a valuation scheme on a product that has the raw material imported. It's not up to you. I want you to understand that. In other words, even the mask manufactured in Larissa in the agro-industrial industry, the raw materials are imported. So you can't put valuation status unless the government and the state pay it. I want here, when we say things, to really mean them. That is why we need to go from the production line, Prime Minister, from alpha to the omega, because it is not enough to do the industry with imported raw materials. Because I, too, produce products, Prime Minister, for 60% of the products my company produces, the materials are imported. You can't impose on me a valuation regime. It is not possible because the European Parliament that sells me the material can tell you that it wants it more expensive or cheaper. It's, unfortunately, a stock market. I'm saying that to be consistent. We'll make suggestions later. I said it all along. The Prime Minister spoke of a security bridge for your schools. Mr. Chiodras and Mrs. Keramea spoke of a "important challenge". With uncertainties the return to school." Listen, ladies and gentlemen. You've got kids most of them. Who gives the right to anyone risking our children's lives? Listen: "Signant challenge. With uncertainties the return to school." If this is called a Minister's statement that wants to convince the citizen that his child is not in danger, you are wrong. Why did we open the schools, Prime Minister? You tell me a reason. If you're sure there's no problem, let's open it all. If, however, there is what it says "major challenge, uncertainties", when it comes to human lives, there is no risk to uncertainty. Risk his child, Velopoulos, if he wants. Risking his family. But you can't risk someone else's kid. Of course, I'll give you a number, too, so you can understand teachers. 73% of permanent teachers are over fifty-one years old. I mean, he's at a dangerous age. It's sixty. How do you do that? So these are your mistakes, Mr Prime Minister. You've got more mistakes. I have here, Prime Minister, and your signatures. This is one of all New Democracy MPs. I'm tabling them in the Minutes. These are your signatures, gentlemen. You accused the Syrians from here, who disappeared as usual and left - only Mr Giannoulis - that they had direct assignments. Here, take them. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's over four hundred questions from the New Democracy about direct assignments with complaints through incredible means. They're justifiable, Prime Minister. You were quite right - I read them one by one - about these assignments. They smelled like scandals. But you come here today and you do the same, unfortunately, with direct assignments. So, on the one hand, you cannot accuse SYRIZA's gentlemen of making assignments and coming as government to do the same thing just as you do. They're direct assignments. I saw some masks of tens of millions of euros. I'll testify to the Minutes to see them. It's in a New Democracy assignment. I'm telling you that. I couldn't figure out why you fell into the trap. On the other hand, you made a mistake. I think it is wrong, Prime Minister, that of the CEC. It was a mistake. I am not saying that the Minister and the Prime Minister resign. Who hasn't made mistakes in his life? We all made mistakes. You'll tell me that in politics the public pays it too. Yes, I do. You can fix it, Prime Minister. It's easy. It's not hard. You were giving EUR 600 to lawyers and EUR 470 to CECs, i.e. EUR 1070 per head. That was the cost. Now you give the scientists 600 euros. Where is the EUR 470? Aren't you giving it to me? I'll give you an idea. Give EUR 470 to all scientists - what you would give anyway - on coupons to buy Greek products only to support the primary sector, the rural economy, agriculture, livestock farming, to have hope for tomorrow. Some may smile in here because they haven't worked in their lives for one day because they do service, but production is so supported. The farmer, gentlemen, hungered Easter because he didn't get a goat from the Greeks to bake. He really hungered, and it's not populism. Let's get serious in here. The production line is thus supported in certain ways. Who's that? After I give the money, an obligation will have for the one who would not have it in his pocket, the scientist, to go and get 200 euros of Greek products, such as honey, butter, meat, milk, to move the economy first. What's simpler than that? It is not so difficult and it can also give examples of indirect premiums to other countries. Spain did it last year. But, unfortunately, here you have confused the realistic economic policy and arguments with populism. If that's populism, you probably don't know the meaning of the term. Prime Minister, I want you to get a phone to all your ministries this afternoon and ask your ministers how many people have files ready. Mr. Gerapetritis can do that, the sympathizer, otherwise, who speaks very well Greek. Take your ministers and check them out. How many people have ready-made NSRF files in their drawers? I am talking about the NSRF, not these NSRF for 200 euros and 500 euros. I'm talking about real investments. They're files ready, Prime Minister. Only in a ministry are there twenty-six investors who have been waiting for three or four months to start their investment and I can inform you, if you want, in person, and Mr. Gerapetritis, I can tell you which Ministry he is. These twenty-six investments are hundreds of millions of euros, Prime Minister, who are delaying three to four months and could give jobs. They could give jobs to Greeks, start the process of economic production. Because the ministers are stalled because I remember you saying - and you were absolutely right, and you were electorally speaking, but also in the budget - that the procedures will be speeded up. I told you, if you don't know, I can testify to you. I can come to your office or give it to Mr. Gerapetritis and tell you which Ministry he is, to understand that you are all good at saying things. And I don't want to expose any Minister in here. There's no need at this stage. But four months in the drawers of a N.S.S.S. Secretary ready? Do you know what the worst, Prime Minister? That the individual is required to have 40% to 50% of its own funds in the bank. He's testified, Prime Minister. Listen to me for a minute. I want Members to understand what I'm saying now. The private investor for an investment of EUR 10 million with a 50% subsidy, the 5 million must have it deposited with the bank and committed - 50% is from the NSRP - and wait six months for the private with parked money and that cannot touch them, because if he touches them and lacks the capital, the NSRP can take this project away from him. I mean, it's incredible what's going on, Prime Minister. I'm telling you, it's unbelievable. Take a closer look at it. Take the initiative. What can we do? Unfortunately, in this country we must also take the masty once and for all. I'm saying that to understand it. So the hard thing is not to close an economy, Prime Minister. You closed it for good so the pandemic won't go on. The hard thing is to unlock it, Prime Minister. Now the hard stuff is starting for you. I sincerely hope for the good of my country that the plan will go well if you have a plan. I don't see the plan. But I wish that for the good of our country it would go well. Whoever it was, and Tsipras and Gennamata, I would wish it wholeheartedly for the sake of Greece. But I'll tell you something. From what I heard, Prime Minister, I heard only measures on loan, borrower money. I didn't see a production of wealth. I didn't hear a way to produce wealth. And there is. You know that this loan, Prime Minister, is not outrageous. We'll get it back. We won't have to turn them around, Prime Minister, if we don't produce ourselves if we don't work on primary production ourselves. Then we'll never be able to return this money. We will all be trapped here and apologise to the Greek people. The worst thing is that we will not be able to help those who voted for us and the worst of all will be that there will no longer be a Greek who will be hungry. If that - I repeat - is reasonable, we have another logic. Listen to the distortion, Mr. Roussepoulou. We give the Greek money so it doesn't work. The benefits are to keep them from working. Do you know what I would do, Mr. Russopoulou? I'd make a plan so that the money I'll give to go get a place, go to work, work for the Greeks, don't make them soft. The Greek wants a job. The Greek does not want to be merciful. It is not a poor house for Greece to share benefits to poor people. He wants work for the Greeks. Find a way. There are. If you do not know in the New Democracy, read our program how to do this. Other countries have done so. I say it because I want the Greek to work. To produce, Mr. Comrade. That's not how it works. Mr Stagiras, a while ago in SKAI, if I am not mistaken - because the ministers are on the canals all the time - said that within three months of today Greece will be running out with just 12 billion euros. It's his statement. The fund of Greece is 36 billion. Your Minister said it. From SCAF it announced 24 billion dollars over a quarter. If we do the removal, Prime Minister, you'll see that there's no money left. You tell us that in three months there will be no money in Greece. Greece won't have any money. That is what your Minister himself told us. You are telling us about 7.5% of GDP, 3.5% of GDP, today you have told us about 17 billion. You told us about 7.5% to 14 billion, and today you told us 17 billion, that is, 8% and more. What's the matter with all this? I want to know. And what measures are they actually costly? Because 800 euros have not been taken yet. Prime Minister, you haven't got 800 euros. If we were out and said to raise the hand of anyone who took 800 euros, they would pick it up, but in this way - I'm sorry - why didn't they take it, they haven't taken it. I ask people and they tell me they didn't take them. You announced measures in March, Prime Minister. May's coming in now and they still didn't get any money. For small and medium-sized enterprises, unfortunately, I will tell you something very simple. You do well and open the focus, because that's where Greece can get money and move the market a little. But I have a question, Prime Minister. You tell the restaurant "You have 100 tables, you'll have 20" or it'll work in 1/4 that is. So reduce the fixed expenses - VAT, PPC - to 1/4. Since you are compelled to operate a company that needs 10 euros permanently with 1/4 of its operating space, then find a way. You know, in business, we need to talk a little bit of business. Ask businessmen, your friends, if you don't have one, or ask me. If you tell me I make 100 euros at 20 meters, I'll make 20 euros. I can't host a client's log. It'll be every two yards per three yards, says the other one. It can't be done! Listen to me, it's fine to talk about it here, but you go out to the market and put them on the market. The market has its own rules, it has its own conditions. You did this. Decrease, he says, rent rent, Prime Minister. That is to say, a private person wins - right - but the other one loses, the one who rents it. And he's a private person, he's renting a space, and he's taking a hate. Find a way to balance it from taxation, but not from HISPIA, because that's a fairy tale, Prime Minister. Because the discount of HISBIA is small compared to what the other one loses, who owns the property. I'm just telling you things. You give EUR 200 million to the vouches - all right - and EUR 150 million to the rural economy only, Prime Minister. How will Greece produce? You give the rural economy EUR 150 million and EUR 200 million to the vouches. Wrong is management. You're doing the wrong thing. You're saying you're going to give electronic insurance information. This New Democracy troll story will stop, Prime Minister. Now listen. The 2019 liquidation has not been effected! No payments have been made for 2018! They haven't identified much of the payments to the FBI due to a change in payment codes from 1-1-2020. They were exempted from the allowance of EUR 800 - and rightly so - free traders. I'm telling you a few things to understand that all right, you have consultants, you hear them, you come, you say things. They are not being implemented, Prime Minister. They don't apply them. It's not just one of them because politics and football are a team sport, gentlemen. If I have a broken leg counter, whatever the Prime Minister can do to me from there, the best player and be - not Maradona, not Messie, I don't know who he is - he won't be able alone. That is why the opposition parties must also help, because it is a pandemic, it is a problem, it is an important problem for Greece and the Greeks, as long as we can with proposals only. Opposition is easy. Now listen to other mistakes. My Business Platform for the Ottocosari for Free Professionals. They put in instructions on 28-4-2020. One part of the platform was closed on 21-4-2020, the other was closed on 28-4-2020. On 28-4-2020 they put in the directives on the submission and payment of insurance contributions for March. They can't, my Prime Minister, they can't! It's a good digital country, but that's not how it works. Wrong! I'm closing because I've consumed a lot of time with hotels. Prime Minister, 16 billion euros will be lost, for granted. It's hard to regain them. Let's win more than that suffering we've suffered. Let the epidemiologists stop talking about the hotels. I was listening in the morning to "ANT1" two epidemiologists talking about how hotels will work and one said that breakfast, Mr. Vice President, must take it room service. Has the epidemiologist realised that the man who works in the provision of a service, that to have room service a hotel of three hundred need two hundred employees, need to wash the dishes, be carried, wear a astronaut suit everyone who goes to the room? These things can't be done. It's very difficult. I'll say it one more time. Hotels will suffer a huge blow. Don't deceive ourselves, Prime Minister. We don't have any illusions about the economy going well with hotels. The turnover lost in 2020, according to the Chamber of Tourism Research, is about 5 billion. It's gone this year. However, this may begin, Prime Minister, something that Greece will be grateful for for for the next ten years. What's that? Two or three sections. First section: Call all hoteliers and tell them that in China, India and Japan some special robots began using in the workplace. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. There is. He's at the Ministry of Tourism in Japan. Turn around. It's about some work that can be done without direct contact. Secondly, those who open up the hotels, Prime Minister, should commit, with tax relief, a reduction in VAT? - get Greek products at their hotels. Greek products! You are from a country, Mr. Colleague, from Lamia, you have very nice local dishes. Therefore, must the hotels throughout Greece take Greek products, Greek production, standardization, Greek product, support the farmer, farmer, fish. So those who come here this year and because we have very nice products, quality products, much better than other countries, will ask for them in their country that they go and thus have the possibility of exporting products abroad. It is an indirect advertising, but this is how the farmer and the farmer, the Greek beekeeper, wins the Greeks and moves the process. Do you know how big he is? With Mr. Villard the economist we talked about it, Prime Minister. It can be about 1.5 to 2 billion euros the price of products. In other words, 1.5 to 2 billion euros will stay here in Greece, in Greek wallets, in Greek pockets with Greek products, with a reasonable increase in time. I said it, because forty-five thousand jobs will be lost anyway by tourism. Whatever we do, they'll be lost. Because I'm talking about economy, take this one right now, see why I'm talking about production of Greek riches. German sugar, ladies and gentlemen! In Greek supermarket, Prime Minister. We shut down the Sakharovy Industry, kicked people out, committed crimes. The previous governments - and I will fully agree with all of you - have given every unsuccessful Member of Parliament money. Yes, it is German sugar, Prime Minister, and here it has Germany's address. It's in Manheim. You know Germany, I know her, too. I'm saying that to understand. Greece, which had self-sufficiency and adequacy in sugar, imported from Germany. Let me take 'MERCEDES' - which I take 'MERCEDES' - from Germany, I understand that. Greece has no "MERCEDES". But get to the point where I don't have sugar and honey? Something is wrong with the Greek economy, Prime Minister. These are the problems and these need to be resolved. They've been pathogens for decades. If New Democracy wants to stay as the best government - because that's what you're saying now, I'm going to believe it too - do the basics, because you're actually going to composite. That's the reality. An unpleasant news I have to announce. Today, Prime Minister - unfortunately for us, for our country - EXXON MOBIL, TOTAL and ENI have been suspended in Cyprus. Unsatisfactory development. Just look at this, my Prime Minister, because the fact that the work of the companies that gave us a pillow - as I say exactly - is a crime that, unfortunately, we will find in front of us. Because there are no friends, there are interests. I am also calling on Mr Tindemans - since yesterday afternoon, there have been incidents in the northern continent of Rama, our Prime Minister. People entered Greek homes and persecuted the Greek Northcontinents. Look at it. I'm making an appeal. You're the man who pledged in here for the North-West Pensions. We expect you to implement this commitment for the Greeks as well. Let's do it. It's hard, I know. Let the process begin to take place - but step by step. You know, I don't make a sterile opposition or plunder. But I will tell you, my dear Prime Minister, what Agathon said in 448 BC, Athenian tragic poet. Three things must be remembered, Prime Minister, when it is in power, that it governs people - we must understand that - that we must manage people and everything that happens around them and always according to the law, and third and most importantly, that it will not rule forever. Remember that, Prime Minister. So run fast, you and your government to leave work behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u84	We don't just have information, we have an archaeological knowledge. We have Marriage, Pericles. And I wanted to say about the "acquisition and safeguarding the goods", I don't know if it was made a mistake, but it's Democrat, it's not Pericles'. Democrat said so in his in vain first Olythic Word, that splendid reason, with which he was trying to convince the Athenians to fight Philip. If we do anciently, we can do it right. After ancient times, in modern times. Mr Giannis Varoufakis, President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group. Here, Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, because the Prime Minister started by announcing the return to a more normal parliamentary system, and I will be allowed, ladies and gentlemen, to remind you that you have chosen to deviate from parliamentary normality. And you did, rejecting Mera25's proposal for a teleconference with a full composition of the House. Neither close nor what we had, this sequence of legislative acts and the half-empty or almost full-time parliamentary leave. The Prime Minister referred to the British Parliament and I am very pleased that he did so. Only he made a mistake in the timing of his report, for he referred to World War II. He didn't mention today. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a more traditional, more typological parliament than the Lords House? The House of Lords operates in full teleconferencing. The House of Commons, with a minimum lively presence and the rest of the Members of Parliament by teleconferencing. We proposed this, and you rejected it by choosing the sequence of PPPs by choosing a derogation from normality. You had no reason to do this. If we, as Mer25, can have a teleconferencing conference with two hundred and three hundred, there is no doubt that the House could. The European Parliament, which has many more Members of Parliament, operates normally at a teleconferencing conference. It was your choice. It is never too late, ladies and gentlemen of the House, to do so now like the British Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time of threat to Hellenism, a debate like today is very important. It was very positive that the Prime Minister decided to tell us about the issues of economic pandemic, economic collapse. However, in order for this debate to have substance, there must be a specific reference to the situation in which we are in, but also to a specific reference to a specific plan of exit from the crisis, or at least to the stirring up of the shoulder wave of this crisis. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister did not make any specific reference either to the situation that we are facing or to the exit plan. Your word, Prime Minister - if you can hear me - represents the triumph of propaganda on the truth, which only as an election presence you have tried to pass today. You made a speech, Prime Minister, reminiscent of an open election term gathering. You said at the end of your speech that you speak only the language of the truth. Let's see how we mean the truth, because I'll remind you that when Orwell in his "1984 novel" wanted to talk about the propaganda and its toughest enforcement, he left it at the Ministry of Truth. I will ask you a simple question, which I have put to Mr Stakoura, but I would like to hear the Prime Minister answer specifically to that in his own language of truth. Has national income been reduced or not in the last quarter of 2019? Simple question. Has the national income been reduced even further or not by January and February that passed us? I ask this because the Prime Minister said - and quite rightly so - that the crisis is global, as it was in 2008. Yes, Mr. Mitsotakis, the crisis is global, as it was in 2008, but this crisis comes to strike a Greece, which was already falling before the virus and which never recovered under the Memorandum Policies that you inherited from SYRIZA. Prime Minister, a government, pretending that the economy was going great and that we were in development, is not a government that can manage the great deterioration of the recession, which you refused to have existed despite the fact that it existed. But let's talk with numbers. We wanted to hear numbers from you. We wanted you to tell us where we are, where we come from and how we will deal with it. Since you do not, let me give you our figures on behalf of Mera25, because here we are, here you are, here we will also be, in two years' time and in two years' time and we will have to stay written and tabled in the Minutes of this House the figures, which we too consider to be reflecting the crisis, which comes and prejudices for the measures we need to take. We believe that, at best, GDP in 2020 will fall from about 190 billion to 162 billion. In mid-March I was talking about recession, at best in cases, minus 10%, and then some of you swamped me. The International Monetary Fund three weeks later came out and confirmed it. I said: at best. Today, my appreciation is this and I testify to it, and I hope I'm wrong. I tell you that the figures show that on average, we need to estimate about 162 billion falls from 190 billion. We are talking about minus 14% - 15%, with a budget deficit this year, Mr Mitsotakis, Mr Stakoura, at least 16 billion, which means that at the end of the year the debt will have been slashed to 222% of GDP. For 2021 make your own assessments and deposit them. I'll tell you my assessment and make a comparison at the end of 2021 and 2022, when we'll gather the evidence. We believe that without the harsh austerity, which we obviously think you have already accepted, in 2021 of the 162 billion-dollar income that we will have this year will go to 170 billion. In other words, at best, there will be a recovery of 5%. This will, of course, leave us alone with 170 billion in 2021, compared with the 192 billion GDP last year. In this case, you will have a budget deficit of 10 billion a year next year. If, however, there is austerity - and I will explain why you have already been exposed to it - we will be talking about a GDP at the end of 2021 of the order of only 165 billion, that is, with this austerity, there will be a growth in 2021 - growth - a'rebund' in the basketball language - not more than 1.8% -2% and a State budget deficit of 12 billion. In other words, plus - except for the next eight to nine years, on the basis of what we have as data today, this country faces a budget gap to a minimum at best at the best of 60 billion. That was why the Eurobond you were asking for was important. Because the Eurobond is a form of debt restructuring, the transfer of national debt to the European level, so that these 60 billion at least are not charged to the Greek State, the Greek debt and the state budget and go into the euro zone. That was the essence of the Eurobond. The Eurobond does two things. Firstly, it transfers from the state budget to the European level, which has hit a portion of this unbearable debt at European level, and secondly, because of this transfer reduces the time value, the total amount of debt, the net present value of the euro area's public debt due to this restructuring. That was the importance of the Eurobond and I am very glad - you know, you have heard me say it - that you also embraced the Eurobond after so many years that some of us are talking about Eurobonds and that our language has haired. The Eurobond was the only way to avoid austerity, which will impose on you, which will impose on any Memorandum Government. It was the only way to have a chance of a serious recovery after these grim figures I referred to. Unfortunately, by sending Mr Stavoura to the Eurogroup teleconferencing on 9 April with an explicit mandate and, in fact, with an announcement before the Eurogroup of 9 April in this Chamber that it will not be 'Varoufakis' and that it will not veto that Eurogroup, you have actually sold the Eurobond. The Eurobond ended that day. On 25 April, when you went to the teleconferencing conference of the European summit, you went to bury it, to say 'final' and replace it with the fig sheet, to which you referred, the Recovery Fund, for which I will say two words in a very short time. In those days, April 9th and April 25th, because you had released the veto before entering the teleconference, Mr. Mitsotakis, Mr. Stavoura, you remembered turkey, consenting to Christmas with an ethnic style. Today you come to speak and report to the recovery fund. Mr Mitsotakis, I hope you know - I am sure you will know - that there is no such fund. This fund is a fig sheet. Let's see what they've already announced. They have not finished it, but they have announced - and you have agreed - some basic principles of this fund. The first principle is that there will not be a single euro in it. There will be absolutely no guarantee of this recovery fund, not a single euro. What you are calling for, and what you have decided to do, is to give 0.6% of European GDP in the form of guarantees to the European Commission, so that the European Commission can borrow around 250 billion - at best - from the markets, with our own guarantees, guarantees from the Member States. That's what you did. How did it come from the 250-300 billion to 1 and 1.5 trillion, when I heard Mr. Jedilloni speak the day before yesterday? How are they going there? Leverage. In other words, you are giving the European Commission the opportunity to get a loan, which will use it as a guarantee for a second loan on the first loan! Mr Mitsotakis, you know that this is the policy and tactics of LEHMAN BROTHERS. Remember, you've heard of CDOs squared, CDOs2, structured bonds, which within it has structured bonds. That's what you decided you'd do. Do you know what the tragedy is now? That the European Union, the summit, decided on this, put itself in an incredible dilemma. On the one hand, this will raise money, but it will be toxic, as it will be based on loans based on loans and a great deal of money, but I do not believe it will be, because the private sector will not lend a second loan on the European Commission's already committed loans, given the damage that the private sector has. But even if they do, they will only come in the form of loans to businesses and states. In other words, what you said quite rightly - I was very pleased to hear your statements on the day of 25 April - is what we have been saying for too long that loans do not help the South, do not help the poor, do not help the bankrupt businesses, nor the Greeks, nor the Italians, or the Dutch. You said that, well done, I agree. But know that a fund, which is filled with money on the basis of loans built on loans on guarantees, can only give loans. So, in your own words, this is a great failure. Nor would Lehman BROTHERS - and I say this once again - have such a courage as the German Government and the Dutch Government, which impose such a toxic fund on the rest of the European Union, which will either be toxic or toxic. That is the dilemma on which they have put the European Union, but to which you have consented. How did you agree? Don't veto. I have heard Mr Tsipras drop you before, as part of what you did not do at the summit. Mr. Tsipras, would you veto in case you were Prime Minister on 25 April? Would you say that we are not leaving here without a Eurobond? If you would do it on April 25th, why didn't you do it before? Or do you continue to insist that in the summer of 2015 you saved the country by saying "yes" to the third and later fourth memorandum? Once again, Prime Minister, since 2010 - and much more now - as a country we have a simple choice, difficult but simple. When you have been bankrupt, you have made a deep restructuring of the debt, a cut in public debt - perpetual bonuses, we have been talking about and mocking us, and now they say it - the interconnection of repayments with the growth of the gross national product - all this is part of the debt restructuring - or, therefore, of such a deep debt restructuring - that is, what you have seen - whether you are now accepting an inhumane fifth memorandum. I should like to point out once again - second time in this Chamber, but we must do so, because this is our national duty in all the wings of this Parliament - this: when you have the German Foreign Minister, Mr Haikh Maas, it refers to the troika and its tools as torment tools, I should like to remind you of what I said in 2015, and you also broke me into a memorial here and the foreign troika. I had spoken about the Troika process, the Memorandum Process, as a virtual fiscal drowning. I was more noble. The German Foreign Minister today goes out and says and admits that what happened in Greece was the application of torture tools. Aren't you going to use that? The German Foreign Minister has given you such a huge amount. What are you going to say? Will you say what you said in 2015, that they were doing and shut down the liquidity because we were calling for debt restructuring, which was necessary in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2015 and especially today? Prime Minister, you are pleased that there are no prerequisites for new loans from the ESM or, more indirectly, through markets with the support of the Greek State bonds from the European Central Bank. I'm sure there's no prerequisites. Residents? Do you think there will be no commuters this time in two years? Do you think that we will have reached a minimum of 15% of the government budget of the year and that the enhanced surveillance - in other words, the troika - will not tell you this? "Come here, Mr. Stakoura. Here you have agreed 3.5% of the primary surplus. Okay, we won't ask for that. We have a great disaster. But come here. Won't we go from minus 15 to minus 5?" These are ten units of GDP of austerity measures. These are the things that you have condemned the country, having called on the nonsense of the Eurogroup of 9 April and the toxic fund, instead of the Eurobond of 25 April. You tell me. You may think that the European Central Bank can do so. This is a political decision. He can transfer our loans, buy on the secondary markets tens of billions of Greek bonds, without a post-paid bond. There's that possibility. Prime Minister, please get up here very much in your dentext, in this step, and say: 'I believe that this will be the case, that the European Union understands the difficulty in which we are in, will lend us from the ESM, we will reach 220-225% of debt as a percentage of GDP, we will have a huge budget deficit and will not come to demand post-demand, because the European Central Bank will transfer these debts'. Come and say it. I tell you that this is not going to happen, and I tell you for a simple reason. Mrs Merkel announced it,'schwarze Null', when the German state returned to the small but surplus budget. Tell me. Is there a possibility that the German political system, which will in fact bring its own people to a great deal of trouble, will allow you to be at a minimum of 15%, minus 10%, to let growth stifle this debt and this deficit? Tell me. I'm telling you there's no chance. They're going to Rome, they're going to Madrid, they're coming here to Athens, and they're going to require a hard retired person. It is a very irresponsible question not to answer this question and, in particular, 'yes' or 'yes'. And if 'yes', what these post-migrants will be, what will be the rate of GDP, the austerity they will require. Tell us. We won't blame you for that. Make a prediction that this is what we have to do, a national plan for what we are waiting for. The worst thing that awaits us, when we're done with the virus, at good time, will be the austerity measures and the transferees. Tell us your appreciation of what these will be, tell us what your tolerances will be against this troika, which will come and demand them. It is highly irresponsible to rejoice in what you have brought us today as positive news, namely that the European Central Bank accepts - it says - the Greek Treasury bonds and that the banks will get more easily liquid from the European Central Bank. Under normal circumstances this is very good. I repeat, under normal circumstances. The circumstances are not normal. The banks ended after this collapse of private sector incomes, triple, quadruple, fivefold the flow of red loans, which is now being observed. You know it's done. The banks are bankrupt. They had never escaped bankruptcy, but now it is now quite clear that a new recapitalisation is needed. I would like to ask you a question: What helps the fact that they take the bonds of the Greek State and find liquidity from Frankfurt? Liquidity - you know it now, and you say it, cowardly - cowardly, smack, well done - it doesn't help the bankrupt. What helps the Greek State, which is deeply bankrupt - did I tell you what the figures are - to get cheaper or cheaper loans from the ESM? So - I will say it once again - as a country we have a simple choice, whether you are in the government, whether it is Mr Tsipras, whether it is Mr Velopoulos or the JRC. It doesn't matter. The choice is: Restructuring or Fifth Memorandum. Third way, there's no way. Restructuring or the ‘leaf tree’ of the ESM and the European Central Bank, on which you appear to be based. That's why, when you talk about horny "leaf tree", at the house of the hanged man, you know what we shouldn't talk about. The "leaf tree" is what will keep you alive, under the terms of the post-trainers, who come on their behalf. Prime Minister, I will put, beyond our party controversy - seven specific questions, very technically, very technically, beyond ideological differences. I think that, before we deal with our ideological conflicts, we should have information. We need to know what the situation is - I spoke a little bit about what the situation is - but also about what the government's intentions are in terms of figures. Mr. Stavoura, Mr. Mitsotakis, how much do we have to borrow this year? Over the years 2020, how much do we borrow? What is your Ministry's prediction, Mr. Stakoura, of how much we'll borrow in 2021? What will be the ratio between the ESS and the bonds you have issued because the European Central Bank buys them? I would like an answer, a comprehensive answer - tell me so much - because I want to write it, to remember it. I might learn things from it. Second, do you intend to reduce the wages in the public sector? There may be reasoning to do this. We'll be against it. But we would like you to tell us. Do you intend, given the deficit in the state budget and the troika, which awaits us around the corner, to reduce the wages in the public sector? In the private sector, what are you going to do with the minimum wage, with the collective agreements? That's the third question. Fourth question: Pensions. What are you going to do? What's your thoughts? May answer dependants. You tell us, if it is so much the fall in GDP, if it is so the government budget deficit, I will do this in pensions. But tell us. Fifthly, I asked it again, but I will put it in the context of the seven questions. What do you think will be the austerity brought by your slogan regarding the Eurobond at the summit? Will it be 5% of GDP, 3% of GDP, 10% of GDP, 15% of GDP? What austerity do you expect the enhanced surveillance, the troika of time? Sixth: Banks will be recapitalised. There's no other way. "HERAKLIS" is over. Efforts to resolute through the "ERAKI" veterans. I don't have to explain it any more. This is what happens when you rely on a market that collapsed to restructure the banks. It collapsed, for the simple reason that - as I said before - we have a multiplication of red loans. Banks will be stacked, in other words, as was done in 2012-2013 on the government of Samaras - Venizelos. When 60% -70% of the shares were taken through the Financial Stability Fund, the banks were effectively destabilised. Do you agree? Secondly, will it be done again, as Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos have done, with shares without voting? Again, will you strengthen the bankers - which is not even Greek at the moment - without the public having control over the decisions of the boards of directors? The answer I ask is specific. Finally, what are you going to do about HERAKLE? I'm telling you, and I'm telling you again. Yes, I do. "HERAKLIS" is over. It cannot achieve that purpose, for which you have legislated it. There is no possibility that banks will be liquidated, ceased to be bankrupt and to avoid recapitalisation through the ERAKLE. Bring an act of legislation on which we at Mera25 - I think others - will go out and applaud the streets - not the streets, in here, by teleconferencing we will applaud, to keep the social distances - for the "fresh" of the "HRAKLI". Answer me specifically - I have before me, Mr Mitsotakis - hereafter: If you do not freeze him, as we say, will this amount of 12 billion guarantees or not be activated? According to the law - we have read it very well - if for three consecutive months the funds that have bought the red loans from the banks do not collect a minimum amount from the borrowers - which is certain they will not collect it because of a coronary - then they will have the right to come to you and force you to get 12 billion from the "cushion" - from the ESM that is to say - to give it to the "rapid" funds from Delauer and New Jersey. You will not give it to the banks, or to the borrowers, or to the Greek society that is currently facing a new, huge crisis. Who's the one that stops you from freezing it? Because if you do not respond to me, as you do not respond systematically all these weeks - two months now - we will continue to say that the only reasonable explanation is specific interests, which are binding on you and do not allow you to do what is the absolute logic, namely 'frozen' a 'HRAKLE', which will get a new debt to add it to the shoulders of the Greek public, the Greek citizens, the Greek taxpayers in favour of the 'hard' funds. I hope you will answer these seven questions in your dentistry. I fear that you will not answer these questions, which means that, in fact, you have chosen the way for the elections, for the simple reason that it is the only way to go through the fifth memorandum, as the previous governments have done. We'll be ready. The proposals of Mera25 are very specific. We have begun to develop them and put them in the public debate and here as early as 10 March. It is seven plus one and let me report to you very quickly. First, massive, deep haircuts. Deferring taxes, contributions and payments has never helped anyone bankrupt. Big, deep haircuts. I've said it since March 10th in here. There's still a prepayment of business tax. I imagine Mr Stavros will make a reduction of this today. Not doing this reduction to zero, that you haven't done it a month now, it's a joke, Mr. Stakoura. Today are you still talking about tax prepayments, the 2021 tax on the basis of the calculation of the revenues of 2019 that are currently not and will not exist in 2021? Secondly, we had requested debit cards with EUR 300 each, numbered, for at least three hundred thousand families of the poorest Greeks who are unpaid and will not get one of the 700 euros, of the 800 euros, of the 500 euros. Third: Do you want to give loans? Some loans must also be provided. We understand that. To be dependent, to be contingent loans. You give a loan to a company and you get it back only if its profits exceed a certain level and the rate of repayment is proportional to the rate of profit growth. If they do not reach a certain level of debt, within the loan contract you will have given the subordinated loan, the debt is actually derecognised. Fourthly, 'HARAKLI''', a public private debt management company, like the one we have proposed from the outset as Mer25. He was in our election program of July. And to God, let the ideas that they will lose their homes, but they will stay inside with a subsidized rent. The only solution today is to maintain property rights even at the rate that has been paid back - even small - by borrowers, with a lease, with a lease to the public private debt management company, until they start paying them back, so that people have the hope that some time they will be able to do so. Part of this, of course, is, once the HERAKLIS has finished, the statification of the banks, which will be done by holding the government - your government, which is the government - the right to control the operations of the banks. In other words, do not dare do what Samara - Venizelou government has done to get shares without a vote. This will be a second crime, which will be added to that of 2012-2013. Fifth, structural changes: are you not in favour of structural changes? Get a serious competition committee to check the shamefulness of supermarkets and other businesses, who manage to collect and obtain unacceptable income, in the midst of a pandemic. Six, for the farmers. The state must become the buyer of the last moment, in order to keep the crops at a level, so that, when the coronary is gone, it has left the agricultural sector, so that we do not have even greater precipitation of this sector. Seven. Lawyers, professionals, architects, people of art. There should be a public payment system based on market tax units. The so-called credit rating units. I don't have time to develop it and I won't. These are the seven policies that we are proposing for within the country. None of this is going to work, since we are in the situation of enhanced surveillance of the Troika, unless there is a veto in the EU budget - you have the right to do so - if there is no provision for something that is equivalent to the Eurobond. If you allow the fifth memorandum to bring the country to even greater depths of its debt-government, you will be accountable, as were the previous Prime Ministers of yours. Prime Minister, this is where I think we'll agree. At difficult times each government needs a mature people. A people consciously, conscious of the common interest. A people who trust his government and be ready for personal sacrifices for the common good. You need citizens who, despite the great personal suffering they face, carry out, as they are doing today, acts of touching generosity. Today, you still have this people as government. As we had him in the first five months of 2015. But if you continue to have him you must give specific answers to the seven questions I asked you. To continue to have him at your side, at these difficult times, just like - and you did well - reject the immunity of the herd, you must reject the reasoning of the herd in which your communication staff is pushing you. Judging by your current position here in the House, which I have heard very carefully, I do not see that you can keep this people close to you for a long time. You have already started to grasp the great words of all the Memorandum Prime Ministers before they take the big loans. This great people, Prime Minister, these citizens deserve better than the summer capturing of 2015 and your own capturing, five years later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u86	After we prepare ourselves properly, we will enter the secondarys, which are half the time warranted. Not the abuser. Since we have a few seconds, Mr. Varoufakis, to tell you that I do not monitor the House of Lords, because it forbids me from Article 4 of the Constitution, as Mr. Gerapitris knows. But I am watching the House of Commons. It's seven hundred years old. As you quite rightly said, today in the six hundred fifty, they have fifty present and a hundred by teleconferencing. They don't have the remaining five hundred with a teleconferencing. However, we are listening to you and we are all discussing the Conference of Presidents without being smart. I never imagined, when I became President of Parliament, that I would speak with doctors more than with the directors of legislative work and parliamentary control. I'm talking to doctors more. It's an emergency treaty. We put a teleconferencing conference on the environment bill. Heard there was no consultation. Twenty-five bodies have been heard for eight hours. The Rules of Procedure provide for ten bodies. Twenty-five bodies have been heard. In plenary, now that the market opens, we will make the necessary supplies. Plenary was not prepared, such as the Senate, for conferences and such a telecom service. In a few days' time, we will be able to participate better than the British Parliament in a number of e-conferences, not alive, than two hundred Members at the same time. So we do. We were just not born to manage this. The President of the New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has the floor for his denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u87	If I understood correctly, Mr Varoufakis, what you are charging Mr. Tsipras was that he did not fully insist on the strategy of the big bluff and did an impressive asshole, which loaded us with the third memorandum, went bankrupt and led the country to a protracted austerity, while the world economy was going very well. What would've happened if it hadn't happened to that stupid fucker, we'd never know about it. In any case, the twin Tsipras - Varoufakis proved to be destructive and traumatic for the country. It is good to remember and remind us both of what happened in the first half of 2015. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr President, at the beginning of the epidemiological crisis, the Greek Government used the slogan "we wait at home" to convince Greek citizens that we need to change our behaviour. I believe it is a slogan that the citizens embraced, understood and served. Listening to Mr. Tsipras' position, I thought a different version would suit you very well. 'we remain the same'. Same and unchanging. This is Tsipras and SYRIZA, whom we have heard today. It is a party which cannot make any substantial self-criticism. It is a party, which does not have the courage to recognise that the country has achieved something that has escaped from usual. It is a party, which does not have the courage to give credit to the Greek people, but yes, to the government and the state - because the state is identical to the government - the fact that things have happened over the last two months, which, if anything, is unusual in our country. In this way you do not minimize the government, you do not minimize me personally, you do not minimize the National Representation. You minimize the country as a whole. I would expect your tone today and your way of greater braveness and recognition of what the country has achieved in tackling the health crisis. You have used the term'self'. All that's happened in the past two months has been about self-evident. Right - I will say, and I have done so many times in my speech too - you have first credited the Greek people, who have fully complied with the suggestions of the special and political leadership, has shown solidarity. The Greek citizen accepted a significant discount on his individual freedoms to serve the whole good. The great thank you belongs primarily to Greek citizens. But no, Mr. Tsipras. None of what happened in the last two months was self-evident. It was not obvious that we made a decision before we had the first case in Greece. For example, to cancel the carnival events in Patras. It was not self-evident that we dared, much earlier than many other European countries, to close schools, book shops, pay a large financial cost, because we saw what was happening. It was not self-evident that we succeeded and built a single message, which we contacted the citizens. The citizens have heard this message in a substantial way. It was not self-evident that in forty-eight hours the Department of Digital Policy managed and created an application with sms so that citizens could not only use the paper, but also use the messages to communicate the reasons they invoke to get out of the house. It was not self-evident that huge digital leaps were made in the crisis, such as intangible e-prescription. If they were so self-evident, why didn't you guys do it all this time? None of this was self-evident. If you compare the performance of Greece with other European countries, you will find that other European countries, such as Spain, in which you are a party, with which you are a brother, the notorious Podemos, have been far behind in taking these decisions, for which you may know better, and the result is what we are seeing today. I am going to pay tribute first and foremost to the Greek people, but I am not going to accept that dealing with the crisis by the government and the state mechanism was about set, as if it were on the autopilot. I imagine, Mr Tsipras, that you too have heard the whispers in society, which is called underground, but often and out loudly: 'What if...'. What if that's the way it would be? We'll never know. Luckily, I'd say. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Please, I understand that your word is sometimes the mirror of your political embarrassment. But a little more recognition of this great effort, which has been made not by the government but by the state as a whole, I think it would be more appropriate to what Greek citizens feel today. I don't want to leave two remarks of interest to me. One is the use of the word 'integralism'. I will address here and the President of Parliament, who is particularly interested in history, but also worthy of Central Left officials, who I think are aware of the importance of words. When the word "integralism" is used in the literature of political science, it refers to very specific regimes, such as Nazi Germany, to what Stalin did, to North Korea, possibly. Be a little careful in this Chamber when we use words with such a heavy burden. They neither honour our democracy nor the great effort which we are all doing here, so that we can - I have listened very carefully to all the political leaders - find a common place and a common area of understanding, because that is what society requires. Let us come back to one reason, which - it is my personal assessment, perhaps I am mistaken - gives a certain perception that 'we will wait for you at the corner of the first failure, when you fail, to shoot you'. That's what I understood, I may have understood wrong, but after all - I'm not the final judge. But when we face a huge health and economic crisis, we do not serve this new climate, which we want to build. In any case, my personal view is that society has gone very far ahead of these logics and whoever chooses to follow such a reason will simply be out of season. I now come to a number of specific points. I will start with health and then go to the economic issues. Tests, masks, schools: three topics which have dealt with the public debate and which have also been discussed. I will start by saying that this government has served a policy which has taken the scientific data very seriously. That's what we've done since the beginning, that's what we're still doing right now. I would like to point out, of course, that unlike doctrines and magicians, science does not possess infallibility, nor does it always consider that what it says is by definition correct. Perhaps, something science can say, come other data then and question it. Hence for very difficult choices, which we must take, there is not always absolute agreement everywhere, of all sciences. We are not the only ones dealing with this problem. All the countries of the world are facing it, which are moving towards a gradual de-escalation of drastic measures, which we have taken. Our test strategy has been recommended by the Committee on Sciences and so far, at least, it is a strategy which has proved to be correct in principle. We have chosen to test only those that our committee has indicated that we should test. The number of tests, obviously for the next day, needs to be increased and communications have already been made by the Ministry responsible on how to do this. I am not only talking about molecular tests, which can diagnose the virus while it is alive and possibly even before symptoms occur, but I am referring to serological tests, which can possibly tell us two things, if you have passed the virus and have antibodies, or if you have the virus at that time, and may be conditional, but not with the same accuracy, of the molecular control tests. We have made a choice, in terms of antibodies tests, to wait a little while, so that we do not rush to obtain a test of dubious effectiveness and we did well. Because other countries, which have rushed to do so, have found that they have found themselves with a test which they have not been very precise, and thus cast doubt on the data they need to carry out a policy. Now that we know and have the committee's recommendations, we will obtain such tests, on a chronological basis, in a large number, and, indeed, we will be able next week to announce details and that will be done by private donation. The state budget for the first large batch of antibodies tests will not be imposed, which we will need to do. In any case, we all know - and this applies to all countries in the world - that cases which have been officially diagnosed are much less than actual cases. We know this, it applies to all countries in the world, it is not only the case in Greece. In Greece, the real cases are far more than two thousand four hundred cases, which we have identified. However, if the spread of the epidemic was much more silent and much more intense, we would see that in our hospitals, in our intensive and unfortunately, in the most tragic indicator of all, which is the number of people who are losing their lives. These are the indicators that we need to observe, these are the indicators that we are observing, and precisely because we are observing these indicators with great attention, we know that we have managed to limit the epidemic to a minimum. I would also like to say that Greece was and remains one of the very few countries, which continued throughout this epidemic to track, the so-called 'contact trading'. The Civil Protection did so and it does so very effectively. In many other countries, they have exceeded their data and have not been able to do so. We will continue to do so and indeed in the 'contact trading' we need to be able to carry out more tests and I believe that soon, perhaps within the next month, we can also have creditworthy tests, which means that we will not have to wait a few hours, so that we can have the result, but perhaps at the primary level, this test can also be done within ten-15 minutes to have a reliable one - I stress it: credible - answer. So this is in terms of the test strategy. The final measure to deal with an epidemic is not the number of tests, it is the other indicators I have talked about. From the beginning, the aim of the government was one: to limit the number of our fellow citizens, who at the same time will need to come to our hospitals, they will need to be intensive. Because only in this way could we limit human losses. This is something that we have achieved, something that is recognised worldwide, is conquest for the country. It is a conquest for the country, after ten years of suffering to finally have many positive publications for Greece. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You don't show satisfaction with that. You're ejecting a misery, like this is bad for our country. You're wrong, Mr. Tsipras! You're wrong with this policy. It is good for the country to be able to cope with the health crisis in confidence reserves right now. And it's definitely good for the Greek society. It is good for Greeks to feel contentment and pride. We haven't felt these feelings in a while. Sure, the hard stuff is ahead of us. I will not disagree with Mr. Varoufakis on this. The difficult things are ahead of us, and the great challenge is to keep the core of these positive emotions at an hour, which will be more intense in a deep economic crisis. I know it's not easy, but that's the challenge. It is a challenge that concerns all of us, not just the government. I now come to the subject of masks. Look, with the masks, we fully followed the recommendations of the Health Committee. While we were locked in the houses, the masks weren't necessary. It is now necessary - I will stress this - only as a supplementary measure. The committee keeps saying that. It is not a substitute for individual hygiene, it is not a substitute for distances, it is not a substitute for not coughing and not sneeze on others. It's a supplementary measure. And the committee has clearly explained where the use of the mask is compulsory and where the use of the mask is optional or in any case there is a strict recommendation. In any case, I listen to the debates with care. I've heard Mrs. Gennamas in all this argument as to whether or not we should go to esteem. It is a reasonable question, and I do not get over it. I would like to say, however, that we had a similar debate - the Minister will remember - when the first deficiencies in antiseptics had been detected. We have then chosen not to go to a logic of strict pricing but to make strict recommendations on the volume of antiseptics that can be sold in supermarkets. Finally, the market itself, with our encouragement and great convenience, solved the problem. We have very large and significant production of domestic antiseptics in the country. There is an absolute possibility of meeting market needs and at very competitive prices. I think that's gonna be the same thing with the masks. The masks have the additional advantage of having a substitute, the textile cover, for which in the next few days, very clear instructions and TV spots will be given on how each Greek citizen can easily build a cloth cover and, above all, what are the conditions that he can use in absolute safety. If we see, together with the Minister, that there are market distortion phenomena and shameful speculation phenomena, which in any case the Ministry is hitting them, we are here to reassess our position. We do not consider it necessary at the present time. The fact that, yes, there are Greek companies - and not one - which very quickly came to fill the gap in the market and build masks is good. It's a substitute. The whole of the European Union is currently discussing how to replace a piece of protective equipment manufactured in China. In other words, we, Greek businessmen, did it here and did it very quickly. I will salute this effort. It is another possibility to enrich the market with more product. The more product there is, the less we are at risk of prices leaving upwards. Of course, I'd like to say one more thing. As a large part of these products remain imported, the valuation creates a very great risk that the imports of masks will be stopped and that we will be left with masks where we need them. I would also like to say that under no circumstances has the supply of hospitals and the critical infrastructure of the state, which must have access, not just to mere surgical masks, but also to the masks of increased protection. In fact, we recently supplied a large batch of FFP3, which are special masks only for intensive. These are available in hospitals. As I said to you, next week the Minister will present the donation framework fully, what we have, where we have it, how we have it. We have created a very modern logistics warehouse, with a very advanced system with absolute transparency and accountability, so that everyone knows what we have received and where it is directed. I now come to the question of schools. It is different to have a scientific disagreement on the issue of schools and completely different to create consciously and methodically a sense of insecurity in Greek society. Some newspapers, some insiders that are close to Census, do just that. It's gonna be a mistake to do it, and I'll tell you why it's gonna be a mistake to do it. At the moment, most countries - Italy is an exception - choose to gradually open their schools and do so because they know that there can be no return to normality, without open schools for many reasons, economic, social and psychological. It's not good, - those who have children or adolescents know it - children being at home all the time. There are therefore good reasons for opening up schools. We know more today than we knew two or three months ago. In fact, there was at the beginning of the epidemic the view - an estimate that children could be 'emotional bombs'. This view is no longer supported by a majority of scientists. The appreciation we have is not entirely proven, but this is the estimate that most experts seem to agree, and this is that children are getting harder and transmitting more difficult. In any case, we move on to open up schools, having ensured, as far as possible, less co-existence in quills, alternating access to courses on a single and even day basis. I believe that we have taken all the necessary steps to allow this opening by rules and conditions. In addition, the committee told us yesterday and said so in public. The suggestions we had accepted were for even faster opening up of schools. We put a brake on. We're keeping the elementary issue. I am not yet convinced that primary schools should open, for the simple reason that young children are more difficult to impose hygiene rules and it is harder in primary school to go to breaking classes than they are in high school and high school. We will see and consider the issue and make our final decisions on 20 May. I'm making an appeal. It is a question of having a scientific disagreement and it is a second issue - which I do not want to see - to see a political spiral on this issue. It would be wrong to do so, to create additional insecurity in children and parents. In any case, I would like to say something else. Closed schools are intensifying social inequality. Children who do not have access to the Internet or who have computers working too late, children who may have problems and tensions at home who do not have the possibility or support to be able to access telephony, children who go to some public schools, who may not have the necessary equipment are at a disadvantage, relative to children, who go to private schools, who may go further ahead at the moment or with some public schools, which have succeeded and adapted to these speeds. It is a great mistake over the closed schools to come and consolidate such social inequalities. We've made a political decision. I hear the criticism, but I would like to point out that it was unanimous - and I will say again, Mr Tsipras, it was unanimous - that the committee' s decision, which recommended the closure of schools when it was proposed and the opening up of schools, as we open them up. We don't do things on our head or experiments. I have also said from the outset that this process, this plan is a well thought-out plan. It's what the word says, it's a plan. We can monitor the data, we can see seven to fourteen days ahead and if we need to adjust the plan, here we are to examine and implement it. I have also said many times that opening up and returning to the new everyday life is more difficult than sitting at home and, yes, additional responsibility is needed. We don't throw the ball in society and we take our tail out. We didn't do it before, we don't do it now. Together we are in this effort. And it is certain that if there is no individual responsibility, there will be no good collective effect. It is not a question of transferring responsibility here: it is the state, it is the citizen's fault. We are all together in this great adventure together and together we will succeed or fail. If we fail, we'll have failed in total. Society will have failed, the government will have failed, we will have failed, we will all have failed. There will be no one who will come out and celebrate here on the ruins of a possible failure. No one can want that, and no one can wish it. There is a very dark world on the Internet today - very dark - who is battering and investing in national failure. Don't make this part of the political controversy. Don't do it! Let's leave it on the Internet tarts all these lousy trolls, which are coming today and sprinkling on a possible failure. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I now come to economic matters. I shall start by trying to make a bridge with what Mr Varoufakis said and with the questions he has asked me, which cannot be answered unless the first question is answered, how much will the recession be? If we do not know how much the recession will be, most of the other questions you have asked cannot therefore be answered. When we say that we do not know how much the recession is going to be today, but we certainly know that it will be heavy, that is based on a very simple presumption: we do not know how long the health crisis will last. We do not know today whether we will be able to have tourism in the summer and how much tourism we will have. We do not know whether there will be a second wave of the virus in October, which will allow us again to limit economic activity. We don't know! I wish we could predict. That is why a great deal of time is given to the possible recession. It is clever of your intelligence, Mr. Chief of Antipopulation, that because the Governor of the Bank of Greece said that anything more than 4% is my recession, so there is a Mitsotakis recession, which comes and sits on the organic recession. It's a little inconsistent with all that you're talking about. With the same logic, I could say that I get Mr Varoufakis' prediction of a 15% recession and anything less than the 15% recession is a success of Mitsotakis, because he has succeeded and reversed the recession. But are these serious arguments? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Do you not see that all the countries today - and countries, Mr Varoufakis, which did not go to hard lockdowns, like Sweden - have a very large economic impact, because it is quite simply a global recession of supply and demand at the same time? Yes, our country is more dependent - not as dependent as it may be - on tourism, which we know will be hit more. For all this, it's not the coronary, but it's the Mitsotakis and the government. Okay. If you believe it, that's how it will be. What can I tell you? In any case, our job here is to see how we can mitigate the recession, and how we can in 2021, Mr Varoufakis, not have a recovery of 1%, but to have a fragile and brave development, which will once again fill the public funds, shorten the deficit and will necessarily reduce our obligation to have an additional debt. The debt debate is an essential debate and all the work that is being done and the pressure that is being exerted at European level - because it is not only carried out by Greece - is being carried out by all the countries which have a great debt as a percentage of GDP, Greece has some specific features in its debt, and you know them better than us, it does not have strong and high financial needs for a decade - it is precisely not to add an additional national debt - I stress, a national debt that we have. That is why the great pressure on the recovery fund is more direct funding, subsidies, and less lending is a battle, which is given at European level. If you believe that a country can in itself give an answer to this question, then you are completely ignoring European balances. However, a pressure lever is being formed today so that the final result is certainly better than what it seemed to be a month ago. We have supported society, we have supported employment. I was amazed at what I heard, that we liberated the redundancies. But don't you know that redundancies were forbidden? You don't know that thing? When you say so, don't you know that? So, how do you say that thing? You say it ignorantly, do you say it to distort reality? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You can accuse us that this policy is not effective, that you have something else to suggest. It's your right. But you can't do the white one. These times are over. From there on, we have proposed a concrete and costly plan, with a lot of money, which is on the market. Today the eightcosari and the free professionals were paid. I'll close it down because I've already misused time. I have here your plan "We stay up", in which SYRIZA comes and says that "we want to do what we want to do" - to spend, to say it very simply -14.3 billion and to give security, liquidity, to operations of 12 billion". In both liquidity and guarantee, we do not disagree much. Somewhere nearby, they'll reach our numbers. But be careful over here. 14.3 billion intervention! Aren't you telling me, the money that will be missing from the state budget, from lack of revenue as a result of the crisis, which can be 8 to 10 billion, ever counted? I can't believe Mr. Tsakalotos has signed this table. I'm blocking it! I personally rule out it. Because the real cost of your intervention is not 14 billion, it is 25 billion. I mean your financial intervention. If the real cost is so great, then you know very well that cash is not enough to be able to support it. So you either have to be aggressively borrowed from the markets, at a rate that I do not know or have to break the frozen money, which you put aside for debt service. If you want to do this, please go out and say it: Yes, we want to get out of this money and possibly suffer the consequences of such a policy. We won't do that. We think it's necessary to keep reserves for the next day. I have heard several interesting proposals from Mrs Gennimata, many of which we are considering as measures for the next day. Let me tell you, of course, Mrs Gennamas, that because I carefully studied your programs, what you posted on the Internet, they had nothing to do with what you said today. You said completely new and different things. I've seen you overpaid benefits and expenses. However, I have heard some interesting proposals. I hear thoughts about what we're going to do with the advance payment of business. These are all measures considered by the financial staff. Whenever we are ready we will announce them, but we should always have an overview of how far the overall financial footprint of the interventions we are going to make. We need to know that the country still has access to the markets. As you have seen, we have recently been on the markets at a fairly satisfactory interest rate for the juncture. We therefore have an obligation to strengthen cash resources from there on, to prepare ourselves for the great counter-attack that we need to make in the second half of 2020 and, of course, in 2021, so that as soon as possible we can reverse the negative effects of this unprecedented crisis. I should like to close, Mr President, by repeating that the Government is always here and now to give substantiated answers, to recognise its mistakes whenever they are made. On the question of vouchers, we were the ones who took the programme back. We took it back because, in fact, this programme did not offer quality training to the freelance professionals who entered and spent tens of hours training. That's why the program got it back. The program was never an income substitute. It was income and at the same time it was possible for freelance professionals to acquire new skills. We got it back. In any case, the CEC market has not been created by us. We found it on the CEC market. This is the CEC market. To her, and you were giving a lot of money. It's not just us. And you were giving money to these C.E.C.s. And therefore, if, according to you, there is a suspicion of a scandal, it is much more burdensome to you than to us. Because we, after all, didn't give the money. You gave it to me. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But if it is a question of quality, that is why we took the programme back. I must also tell you that, having done enough research on this issue, I see that this market is a problematic market. It is a problematic market that needs to be corrected, which must be strictly guaranteed quality. It's a big mistake, going ahead, to devaluate the concept of teletraining as a whole. All our policy, not only our own but also the European Union, is based on the logic of acquiring new skills, largely through distance learning. We therefore have an obligation, as a government, to look structurally at how this market works and not to give the impression, which, unfortunately, has been spreading - and which has been spreading over the past few years, has not started this problem for your day, and you have not corrected it, we have an opportunity to correct it - that training is just a mechanism with which we share European money, benefits effectively, without any substantial added value to the final recipient of this training. We'll fix the training market, make it work properly. And this government will always have the courage to come to Parliament and when something is wrong to say "that was wrong, we fix it". Double mistake is not to have the courage to correct your mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u88	Mr Alexis Tsipras, Chief of Officerial Response and Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, is called at Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mitsotakis did not stand today - in his secondary speech he did not stand - and he took out his real self, showed his real feelings. Not only does it recognise the attitude they have shown all these days, I believe all the parties and, above all, the Civic Opposition, contrary to the way in which he was opposed to critical issues, nationally important issues, and with regard to the debt crisis and with regard to national issues, in particular the resolution of the dispute with the northern neighbours, which at the time, in fact, had adopted all the extreme criticism of ethnicism, and today applies what we have rightly decided - 1/10 of the responsibility shown by us today, to show you a better place - but it has not acknowledged anything about the responsibilities of your own party. They are responsibilities over time - and they were right to hear from other political leaders here today - not only for the great recession, 25% of GDP was lost in 2010-2014, but also for the time before, when you did, indeed, leave the country with a deficit of more than EUR 30 billion. Not only do you recognize your own responsibilities, but also in a disgusting way, you are trying to take the stand of the overwhelming majority of Greek citizens and parties who have put back from the pandemic in order to appear as a tropic, that all this has happened to you. Why? Because it was not self-evident, when all the countries, one after the other, throughout Europe and all around the world, were taking the same measures, you should take these measures too. So we owe our lives to you. Let's get you some candlesticks, let's do some tamas, give you a good time!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u90	The candle individually, Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u91	Personal, Mr President. I promise. But it is not serious about these things and it is not a serious and responsible leader's attitude, to try in such an obscure, provocative way to familiarize collective sacrifices. Yeah, it was obvious they had to shut down. I would remind you that on 23 March Greece became a lockdown. Belgium, which is the first country in number of victims throughout Europe - we are in position ten, the top ten, that is, that - with a similar population as us, was closed on 17 March. On March 13th, ten days before we closed everything, our neighbour Italy had a hundred and thirty three victims, and it was an alarm. Alone, if we didn't all move on to what had to be done and done, that's right. But I don't want to get into this pointless conversation. Because it is both meaningless and glorious and macabre to compare deaths, to compare deaths to deaths in other countries and, indeed, to imply that they are due to Spain, for example, because the Left prevails. Then, indeed, we should say that Albania and Bulgaria are the best countries in Europe, which have a smaller number of deaths than ours. That's a bad comparison. However, I shall return to the end of my speech, because something has been heard which I will not leave. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take advantage of most of the time of my secondary speech, particularly as regards the next day's issues. Because, now, the vast majority of people who have put their backs know that there is a big question about the next day, a great question about their lives, a great question about their work, their income. In fact, I would like to say that I have been very pleased to expect your speech, which you announced, at least, that you will make announcements on critical issues, that you will describe the next day the measures to support society, the economy, the workers, the free traders. But we did not hear something that makes us more optimistic today, leaving today's debate. Nothing specific at least. You just told us the recession would be great. You're not an economic commentator. You are the Prime Minister of the country, who has to appreciate what this recession will be and take steps so that it is not great. All I understand from what you have said is that you have Mr Stournara and Mr Varoufakis on the same level of appreciation. Hey, make Mr. Varoufakis Commander of the Bank of Greece if you like. Because you told us that it was intelligent - he says - when the Governor of the Bank of Greece predicts 4%, I think that I, as Chief of Officer Response, will consider anything more due to you. O Governor of the Bank of Greece, whose term of office you will be renewing. Don't laugh! You'll do that. Unless you don't. Say it. Go out and say what he says is airplanes. You come out and say that when the European Central Bank predicts more than 10%, when the OECD says that the country that will be most affected throughout Europe is Greece, we have a Governor of the Bank of Greece and says airplanes. Say it! But the recession that will hit us will be huge, precisely because you do not adopt a programme forwards, which will keep the real economy alive, which will keep the engine of small and medium-sized enterprises running so that it can reboot more easily. You came here and announced - the only essential news I think that came out today - the extension, the extension for only three months of the first home protection. And compared to today, after this unprecedented health crisis that has created unprecedented economic consequences - some are talking about our symmetrical, but also - our country champion - the biggest crisis facing the world economy since World War II certainly, perhaps even since the 1920s, you are coming and comparing the agreement that we had with the institutions, when the economy was running with 2.9 - so much you have received it - with what we are today, where it is absolutely clear that a new huge 'fusk' of red loans will be created next to the existing one. And you do that, and you know that we had a framework in which you agreed at that time. It can be proven - and it may prove - that there may be a need for more perimeter. However, we had taken an extension until the end of the year, so that by December 2019, from 1-1-2020, a sufficient framework for protecting the first home would be lodged. We had not received an extension to abolish protection. And you come today and you get a three-month extension. I will not criticize you for what you will bring. We'll see when you bring it. Why three months? In three months will the recession be saved and market problems are exhausted? There's some pressure, is there a deadline? We, indeed, had a deadline. The banks had to move to a pan-European level at stress test. And red loans were pushing their balance sheets. Now it's not going to happen anywhere stress test. So why do you retreat to this unbearable and inhuman pressure from the institutional side - which do not come out publicly to say so - that in times of coronary and recession, which will be unprecedented, we must lift the protection of first residence? And, of course, I would point out that the crucial issue is not only the protection of residence but also the new bankruptcy framework, the new bankruptcy law. Here I would like to hear a comment from you. Is it true that you're preparing a middle-class ventilation plan? What will be that framework? We have brought an amendment on several occasions so that there can be an extension by the end of the year. You have not accepted this amendment. Now you come and extend three months. Obviously, on 1 August - unless you prepare plans to escape until then - the problem will be here and you will have to respond to this problem. It's a major social problem. You come and say you've given 24 billion. Okay, if you gave her 24 billion, we're fine. We said 26 billion, that is, 14 and 12 guarantees. For two billion, we're going to ruin it? It's a good program. Where's that money? It's money to be announced on the news. But in real businesses and beneficiaries it has not even gone 1 euro. That's the money for the announcement! Even 1 euro, however, has not gone! The reality is that it shows how many truths they have received today the allowance of EUR 800, who and how many have received the EUR 600. The question has been raised - I think Mr Varoufakis has put it - for the tax advance. It is perfectly logical that this question should be raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Velopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u93	I am sorry, Mr President, I did not hear Mr Velopoulos. I wasn't in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u94	What can I say now? They're all copying us. We have raised the issue of tax advances. Finally!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u95	All right, you too. In any case, I would like to speak positively, not negatively. It is critical and reasonable to ask this question. Because a tourist company will have a drastic reduction in its incomes in 2020. Obviously, he will find it difficult to pay even the tax due in 2019. How will this company manage to make an advance on the basis of this income? Closed undertakings, suspended undertakings are obliged to pay municipal fees today. They have fixed and ruthless expenses. What are you going to do about it? The European Union has been given 138 billion for the strengthening and lending of small and medium-sized enterprises. What are you doing here? What will happen with the possibility of banks being able to borrow through the European Central Bank's extraordinary programme? Will this money be given to the real economy through guarantees, or will the banks continue to have the barrels closed and lend only to anyone who can prove that there is no need for borrowing? Because that's what's happening today! These are critical questions. He's waiting for the market world to hear it. Of course, the world of the market has seen many vulnerabilities. You have announced - it is one of the things that is well announced - that Mr Stagioras, on 17 March, is a 'fresh' of debt-sharing to the banks. It has never been legislated and the debtors continue to pay normally or "red" their loans. And the insults of the tax collector companies continue despite government assurances on the contrary. You went and suspended for seventy-five days on the post-paid checks, also creating an imbalance in the market. You have squeeze the truce on those who have the cheques in their hands, without predicting any advance from the banks only for very few of them, on the loans of the informed exporters. The large majority of small and medium-sized enterprises is the one, which remains excluded from the banking system. You have, in other words, given an extension only to the person who issues the cheques and not the bearer. These are huge issues and they want answers. You're telling us there's no redundancies. Do they hide your reality? Only in March there were forty-two thousand less recruits...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u96	Before the measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u97	Yeah, that's exactly what I'm telling you. Before the actual account comes. Because we are the only country in Europe to be subsidised from the suspension of labour. Obviously it cannot be a suspension and suspension and unemployment. But when these businesses come to work, to reboot, without any substantial support, redundancies will obviously be uncontrollable. It's not gonna be the small and medium-sized business to do that. Tell me now: How can a businessman who has a restaurant in the catering area and is forced now when the weather opens out, while he had four, keep the same number of workers he had? But is it possible to come here, as if you are from another country and criticize me above, which I tell you, with your policy, will the number of redundancies and unemployment be increased? Unless you want us to continue living in a virtual reality situation, only to see what they choose to show us the media and the site - which you are dedicatedly funding - and to save you all and say what good you are! With regard to the 'SURE' programme: obviously, and now you will change the tactics, because you could not even enter this programme. Because the European Union is setting up a work subsidisation programme rather than a job suspension subsidy. Now, of course, you'll cook it a little, you'll cover it up. You will say that the scheme, which we have created as an opportunity in the crisis, of rotating work, will become a stable, that is, half-work, half-wage wage and part of the wage will be paid by the employer and a piece will probably be provided by the European Union. Nice things! I could speak for hours and compare exactly what is going on in France, Sweden and Denmark. 100% is paid by France, 95% by Sweden, 75% by Denmark. But there are special population groups too. For example, there is the problem of farmers. Our programme, 'We're standing up', which you are constantly passing through, has had that logic. I mean, the logic of having a specific tank of fuel that's loaded. And leave that now that Chakaloto didn't sign it. And leave that disgraceful behavior behind. We ruled four and a half years and took the country out of the memos where you failed three times. And we have regulated the debt, and we have created the country's credibility internationally. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We have created the credibility that you have exhausted in just eight months, promising that through high-income tax reductions you will bring growth of 4%. And now the coroner saved you, of course, because you would say "it was the coroner's fault". But the truth is, for three consecutive quarters, since you received 2.9% growth, we had a slowdown. And the truth is that before the coronary came, at the beginning of 2020, you were 2 billion below the surplus target. So what will farmers do? How will farmers survive? Do you have a plan for farmers? We were saying that there should be non-refundable aid to specific industries, to tourism, to agricultural production, to small and medium-sized enterprises. You say, a returner and this returnee two years off, and then we'll see. We're listening to something about interest rates, which are taco-glyphics. So our logic, Mr Mitsotakis, is that when you have a tank that has fuel, so that you can get out of the storm, stand up, you have to use it and not exhaust it by making circles into the storm. That's what you guys do now. In culture there are thousands of workers and businesses. Summer season is vital to them. You made an announcement to cancel all the events. There was little support for these people even though many important people from Mickey Theodorakis to important composers and lyrics have come out and talked about strengthening the world of culture. It is obvious that the relationship you want to have with them is to use them as photographic decor in directed stigmats for communication purposes. But to support two hundred thousand people who are currently sinking into the crisis you have no plan. I'm hanging up with tourism. It contributes 20% to the country's GDP. Will there be any plan specific to social tourism programmes, even to strengthen internal tourism? If you have no plan and you are in "see and do" at least do not blame the opposition that does what is required, that is to say make you critical, and do not even bother with this criticism. I see Mr. Brutsi sitting there unspeakable. All right, here's what we're talking about. You came and accused SYRIZA. SYRIZA came to implement training programmes that you committed yourself to because the framework was 2014-2020, you know that because if he did not implement training programmes, he could not even disburse this money, but they were programs normally. And he did not give direct assignments to six owners of our friends who are related to our ministers' partners, but he gave social actors. You did not reply to me, however: are you comfortable that for three weeks your Minister, next to you, was taking him out on televisions while he had the letter I gave you from the Commissioner and lying to the Greek people, that these are good programs with some small flaws - now you said that they were disgusting - and that he could not do anything else because he had to distribute that money? He was lying and you're keeping the liar and the hybrid! So, what am I supposed to understand? To understand that you're so good at admitting your mistakes? You admit it, you'd have kicked him out. Or should I understand that you're afraid of getting him off the hook and saying things he shouldn't say? Don't forget to say about the masks. It's nice to stitch them up, but look at you, a luxurious family if you have to spend 10 euros a day finding masks, with incomes getting to the nadir, I think that's not a serious situation. And in any case, there must be appreciation. It's been six minutes, and now it's 1,2-1,6 euros each. And I come and close with this, so that I do not get too far, Mr President. I said that at the beginning of the position, Mr Mitsotakis, you have only been able to take off your true self, the unidentified one, who does not recognize the attitude of counterpopulation despite it as weakness. And you came here and said what you obviously spread it all over the Internet, "what would happen in this country if...". If what? If it was SYRIZA in the government, and it wasn't you, our savior? So I'll tell you what would happen. First of all, there would be no Minister for Development who, at the time of the crisis, would come out and say that it is the natural stimulus of the market that is greed and there is no need to quantify. There would have been no Minister who would have tweeted to advertise 5 euro lessons of ancient Greek when all of us had to have entered a solidarity regime. There would be no Minister to go out and exaggerate the Greek citizens who sit at their house and have no income that there would be three hundred pounds of them. There wouldn't be any Minister to set up work. The price of bed in private hospitals would not have risen from EUR 800 to EUR 1,600. They would not go 30m euros for tests to private individuals but go to the public institutions. We wouldn't have a Minister, like Mr. Brutsi, doing business with training centres and humiliating a hundred and fifty thousand scientists free professionals. We would have stood next to everyone not only in the sick but also in those who do not have the opportunity to look optimisticly at the future because they will not have income. We would apply what we across Europe would be subsidising work, enable the economy to be supported, yes, by the 'cushion' that we created from the sacrifices of the Greek people for an hour of need and not by keeping them, so that others, who will surely need it in the future - large businesses - can be financed, but small and medium-sized businesses, work and the world of work. That is what we would do and that is what the Greek people will judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u98	Mrs Fotini Gennimata, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister, you also referred to your prototype in the fact that citizens' confidence in the state has increased. Indeed. Like also, that national self-confidence has been strengthened and that there is a raft of optimism to the Greek people that we can make it. You have no doubt done your duty - we are not zeroing the work done, but obviously there are gaps, omissions, delays and mistakes - and we have undoubtedly contributed to this climate with our responsible attitude. But, Prime Minister, this seed we planted all this time needs watering to grow. And alas, I say this because, if we do not pay attention now, we do not do everything we need - and that is why we are constantly tabling all these proposals - the crisis that will follow will crush optimism and restore rage, insecurity and uncertainty. That is why I think this whole debate is completely cynical in the way it is being done on the issue of recession, because behind each unit there are padlocks, unemployment, cuts, poverty, despair. We must therefore all be much more careful, because if we do not succeed, that means opening the way to populism, to the extreme right and to a new division. So we all have a duty here, to the extent that each one of us is, depending on his role, to prevent this development in the country. So the fair distribution of burdens on the difficult things that are ahead of us must not just remain a reason for lack of content. It must be proved in practice with very specific measures and political options, with one objective, that the weaker ones do not pay the marble again. And our responsibility is precisely with our proposals to make sure that this does not happen. We are therefore committed to this objective. I want to say a few words about the resources. There is certainly no 'leaf tree'. But there are great opportunities today, above all, because, as you have said, because of the crisis and not for another reason, we are taking part in the QE. This gives us the possibility of liquidity at low interest rates. We must make use of them. The government must make the most of the resources from the ESDP and the European Investment Bank and the tools it gives us. And, of course, we must take advantage of the fact that there are no budgetary restrictions for 2020, as well as for the resources for 'SURE', which are not few, but we must demand that the level of the Union rise in the next period, because it is an important programme. So I come to the individual issues. As far as the auctions are concerned, I expected that in your dentistry you would at least accept, after giving this extension to the failed programme that I described before with details, our proposal for a cross-party committee. Instead, do you insist that you present another new plan, which you have discussed, Prime Minister? Just with the bankers? I insist and reintroduce it. We all agree in this Chamber. Go out now and say that we accept the proposal to be a intergroup committee, and all together to discuss and find a solution. It's one of the biggest problems, and we have it in front of us. And, of course, it is also the greatest proof that we have not left our commitments behind. We will be followed by the previous government's commitments to our children and grandchildren. Don't say what we want now. As far as labour is concerned, if it is not taken care now, we have a radical transformation of the terms and contracts of work in Greece. We will be talking about a wave, about a middle-aged job, about part-time with very low wages. We're hitting the alarm bell. You cannot allow that, and even with the signature, to happen to you. Secondly, you know very well, Prime Minister, that there are too many contracts that have been concluded and we have been asking you for some time now and we and the GFCM to legislate to extend them. Do it! You are well aware that it is not possible to open negotiations within this crisis for the renewal of contracts. Well, you'll have to take care of it. We have been calling you for so many months to declare the sectoral contract compulsory in foodism. It was about four hundred thousand workers, and with great trouble - I assure you, they have reached this agreement. The fact that you have not done so all the time today makes them even more vulnerable in the huge crisis that the industry is aware of. As far as pensions are concerned, we have been telling you all this time that you left about a hundred and twenty thousand pensioners pending the adoption of their pensions with no income. I must tell you, Prime Minister, that you received about a hundred and twenty-five thousand outstanding pensions and you managed in February before a crisis to raise this figure to sixty thousand two hundred. This is a 22% increase in outstanding pensions. Do you call that an effective policy? I call it incapacity. I come to the famous Easter bonus. We have asked you, and with an amendment that we have tabled, to extend to the police officers, to the officers of the Armed Forces who are on the front line all this time and to workers in social infrastructure. On 17 March you yourself, Prime Minister, in a dictionary you said that you would see to it that the police and commissioners in general are supported and that only gratitude can be left to words. But you haven't taken care of it. Just make sure they're cut off the allowance. Behold, the field of glorious glory! Be consistent with what you say in your own message. The people of culture are huge because it is clear that they will not be able to work for too long. What about all of them? We need a specific support plan for this sector and we have heard absolutely nothing. For voucher, I'm going to say two words, because what we're interested in is going forward. I was not going to go back to my dentistry again, but because you have again tried to drop the headlights and imply that others before Mr Tsipras are responsible, I must tell you that the scam is not about the centres of lifelong training, it is about the register on the platforms you have built and made within three days, your Government, not personally, but, in the end, you have the responsibility. Friday afternoon the notice came out to become the platform record, Sunday afternoon it expired and Monday morning as magically a tripartite committee had evaluated this whole story - within the weekend it all came to light - he read 100 thousand pages of educational material, ended up and made the register, in which you mandatoryly directed a hundred and eighty thousand scientists with the hidden instructions in the small letters that you know how to let the mouse run and turn the pages without doing anything at all, because you knew that the program is also a monkey. Apart from the scam that was set up, the program was on the basis of the "monkey" with the blessings and guidance of the Ministry. Many of those who took it worked on teleworked at the same time and knew much more than you tried to teach them. Surely the area of training centres needs upgrades and evaluation and certification and criteria in particular in the next period, which can play a very serious role, since many families will avoid sending their children abroad. So we are here to discuss how this is going to be done. But don't blame them for the set-up, because they didn't participate. So I come to health. Because we are going through the acute phase, as I have said before, in the difficult phase, which we need to coexist with the virus, the first thing we need to do is an integrated primary system. If that is not the case, we cannot achieve prevention and effective and timely treatment of people who will be ill in the next period. Monitoring, therefore, and effective care can only be done through a serious primary system and the serious primary system must have mobile workshops, must have home visits. For these mobile workshops and the integrated primary system all the structures currently in existence by the municipalities, certified individuals, and, of course, the many health centres that exist throughout Greece under the strict supervision of the EEAS, should be exploited. And because we now need to organise matters of public health and safety even better, it is clear that we must leave behind the dreams of many speeds of health, privileged for those who do not have one. That is what I hope definitively belong to in the past as designs. And in order to upgrade and regenerate the National Health System it takes before all resources. It also needs resources for the better organisation and reinforcement of hospitals and for the research that needs to be done at the same time. Resources for digital technology need to be allocated to public hospitals, permanent recruitment, for better infrastructure. It needs decentralisation in the administration and merit - at last! - and not a party. A specific plan is needed for the islands and the remote regions, and of course, a plan to tackle biological threats that are now being put into our lives. All of this must include a regeneration plan for the National Health System. I come to the refugee - immigration, because recent events in Samos must all activate us and mobilise us. It is clear that after the first phase, where with complete failure you tried to deal with the issue with authoritarianism and the orders on the islands, we went to a stage with promises from the competent ministers without a reflection, which only put oil on the fire. And I want to let you know that the soul warehouses have now become silicon warehouses. And as the fire in Samos showed, it's too easy for the fire to light up, not only this fire that we lived through. It's in the settlements, the problems are huge. Health has also been added to the humanitarian crisis. The issue needs to be addressed immediately, and it wants to be tackled immediately on the part of the government, but at last you have to give up voice abroad and change nothing in Europe's immigration policy. Because the countries of North and Central Europe have solved their problems, transferring the problem to us and enabling Turkey to constantly blackmail us in one way or another. And since I said Turkey, I cannot help but mention the fact that we must all be vigilant about the growing challenges and constant overcomings that are taking place above our country and say once again that Turkey's challenge is not a shortcut, but is part of its overall review policy, so our country should also have a clear national strategy with clear'red' lines. I have told you many times, Prime Minister. Because we are going back to the pace of everyday life - they are harder, but we are entering everyday life - not to leave these issues behind, they are extremely serious. We will continue to press and ask for institutional information from our representatives and the Committee on Foreign and Security on all developments in relation to Greek-Turkish. In closing, I want to report to both the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff. Here the world is burning, and unfortunately you have your hawaii! Maximus is constantly leaking election scenarios - for which you did not find a word in the seventy-five minutes that you were put to disprove - and Mr. Tsipras is pinching on the other side and starts several micro-groups - because his hair drowned is caught - and various tactics for supposedly progressive fronts. Listen, I've told you many times that we have drawn up a stable autonomous course and we're not going to change from it. We believe that this is exactly how we are useful to the Greek people and we are deeply committed to the expectations and hopes of the people seeking a different path, far from maintenance and populism. And this road exists, it is the way of the Movement of Change, the line of change! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u100	Good. Mr Koutsoubas, President of the KKE Parliamentary Group, is being called to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u101	Mr Mitsotakis, you may have chosen - especially in your dentistry - to enjoy yourself here with Mr Tsipras and to respond to a certain degree to these gifts with a banner, Mrs Gennimata and Mr Varoufakis - but our people are watching with real anxiety the next day and today, but mainly the next day. That is why, of course, we are not going to follow this cathode. Besides, that's what we've always done. We will try with arguments, as much as you disagree horizontally and vertically with the views of the Communist Party of Greece in here, as we always try to do, to analyse our positions, our proposals, and above all, addressing from this point of view the Step towards the Greek people who listens to us with real interest. In the last two months, you have all appeared almost all of you as late followers of the public system and of the workers in it, after you had taken care of shutting down hospitals, other health structures, cutting off budgets, labour rights. Even the legitimate demand for workers to join hospitals in heavy and unhealthy remembered it now. However, none of you who have so far ruled this place has dared so many years to do so, even though those who refer to it had ruled this place. It is precisely to ensure that there is a health shield, from the very beginning we have called for the recruitment of all the necessary health personnel, to equip hospitals with all means and infrastructure. We insisted on the requisition of the private health sector which had to - and must - enter under the responsibility and control of the State in order to ensure adequacy and resources and infrastructure, but above all compliance with the rules. If this had been done, phenomena like the waste of initial diagnostic tests that were carried out in the private sector would have been prevented according to the wallet, of course, or much more, the lack of protection in private structures that cost up to the life and health of our fellow human beings, as well as health in these structures. Of course, you have all rejected this order. In fact, you have reached the point where you are baptizing the rental of services by means of EOPYY contracts and even the undoubted, of course, as we all know, for the big-timers. This is what the New Democracy is doing, and that is what SYRIZA has proposed. From the very first moment, we also said that the necessary quarantine does not mean quarantine in the claim, in the voice of the people, means immovableness in general like what your Government wanted to impose and seek to impose with the contribution, unfortunately, of the Officerial Representation of SYRIZA - in the name of a falsified responsible for counter-population - but also with the assistance of some media which have actually imposed quarantine on the real information, devouring every voice that shows state gaps and shortcomings. Today, in the face of and in the gradual lifting of restrictive measures, the voice of the people, workers and their struggles for today and tomorrow must be heard much louder. The end of the quarantine will reveal even more the image, it will reveal that the public health sector remains intact. And let's say, Mr. Mitsotakis, that we now have a better public system. So what changed in two months in coronary conditions? Of course we know very well and the question is rhetorical. While there is a need for permanent staff of at least thirty thousand health recruitment, on the basis of the data and information provided by the competent bodies, only three thousand additional staff were recruited, only three hundred eighty-eighty doctors and two thousand six hundred ninety-two nursery and other health personnel. In fact, when you know that these thirty thousand that they need are behind the real needs, since in previous years thousands of hospital beds have been abolished, laboratories have closed down, even whole hospitals. IF beds, from five hundred fifty-seven before the epidemic, have now become seventy-seven-five. Of course, you are saying that your aim is to approach the European average of the thousands of two hundred beds ICU. However, this European Union average is below 50% of the IF beds that our country should have. It is this average that cost thousands of lives in European Union countries. It is this average that forced doctors in Europe and now, but also before the epidemic to be forced to choose who will live and who will die. The fact that the public health system is far behind even the daily needs of the people, far more than those of the pandemic, knows that millions of patients with chronic illnesses who have postponed treatments, even those who are under investigation. You know very well that in the new medical appointments the previous ones will be added and, of course, the public system will not be able to respond adequately. Therefore, these must be implemented immediately, that is what we are proposing. What to start with? For the privileges you have given - will we also insist - on the great employer? In order to allow for unilateral rotational work or for the possibility to impose free and unrestricted wage reductions by 50% for at least six months? In order to enable each undertaking to make the combined use of all flexible tools, that is to say, that it can unilaterally impose rotating work on part of its staff, suspend other workers' contracts of employment, combine this measure with teleworking with the same worker and whatever it likes, even transferring workers from one company to the other company in its group, but without safeguarding their rights? All these so-called extraordinary deep anti-corruption measures have come to stay, and this is what the workers themselves are saying, Mr Mitsotakis, are trying to keep safe, not only against the coronary, but at the same time also safe against all this immunity. They want to stay strong protecting their lives and their rights. And this fight cannot be carried forward for any distant future. It is carried out every day and has not stopped, if you want, nor at a time, because it is now that the public health system needs to be shielded and not tomorrow. Now the private health sector must be demanded and put under state control and planning and not tomorrow. Now we need to take protection measures at every place of work and not tomorrow. We must now strengthen the action to prevent the people from paying for the broken crisis, so as not to permanentize unpaid work, rotating work, teleworking and so much more and not tomorrow. All the so-called extraordinary anti-corruption measures that have passed into the pandemic by means of legislative acts must now be abolished to reload the burdens of the crisis to the Greek people. This is also the message of the racing events these days and of the Day Day tomorrow, of course in the special circumstances that the unions are organizing all over the country tomorrow. And, by the way, the responsibility and decision to celebrate the Dayton Day belong to the workers themselves, to their clubs and to their unions and not to the government, but to any government. So do not hide behind the sanitary staff. You have not even dared to say that, of course, you, Mr SYRIZA, to at least keep the arguments. The new account, gentlemen of the New Democracy, is that we will all pay the burdens of the new crisis fairly, he says, a way. Who are you trying to fool? Again, the workers who still pay for the cracks in the previous crisis. The truth, of course, is quite different. Your policy is a policy that strengthens the big capital against the vast majority of the people, which will continue to be the hardest. And of course I am referring not only to direct assignments, to the various IEK Brutsi scandals, but to the larger ones, to the great scandal. The big scandal is that your government, as did the previous governments, has finally found a chance to load the burdens, problems and contradictions that the system creates in the economy again on the workers' backs. The various support packages, whether directly or indirectly, go to the big capital, which can now park those workers who want free, but taking direct payments, financial support from banks and many tax exemptions. Even the support measures for workers finally have a limit and a measure of the needs again of the major entrepreneurs who do not want consumption to collapse nor to shut down hundreds of thousands of businesses sharply. The pillow you fought with SYRIZA didn't fall out of the sky. It is the bloody surpluses, it is the Greek people's money and you only give them to strengthen the big capital again. Of course, very soon all this account will have to be paid. The financial result will write minus, state debt will run and who will be asked to pay again? As all of you of course understand, the question is rhetorical again, because it is clear that you will again call on workers to put their hand in the pocket with new and even more taxes, with possible new wage reductions and new pension cuts. We don't do any futures. Already the legislative acts with which you are ruling, the government decrees, in other words, show who is paying for the crisis. Does anyone seriously think Case can solve the problem? It has not succeeded in the 1930s, it will not succeed either now, because the problem is not the lack of funds, but the existing excessive funds and the lack of good profit to invest them. The state stimulus of the economy, not just does not tackle this problem radically, but on the contrary increases it. State expenditure is increasing the state debt and so they will have to be repaid afterwards. The burden will fall on the people's backs and none of them will have the capital to pay. After all, the European Union's lasting memoranda is in full effect. Capitalism, so good of fans, propagandas and lovers you're all in here, is finally bankrupt. It produces economic crises, we see them one after the other, poverty, unemployment, wars and interventions. As for the European Union, its so-called solidarity now shows its teeth between the Member States and, above all, the peoples, because it is a union of such competitive capitalist states. Ladies and gentlemen, just because your strategic political options are identified, you can fight who can best serve them, like couples in quarantine conditions. That's your realism. Realism has been testified all these months every day. We will continue to do this here in Parliament, with suggestions, with questions, constantly. It concerns not only workers in the workplaces that have been suffering all this time, not only farmers, self-employed people in towns, but also artists and soldiers of our people, workers in the Armed Forces, security bodies and a number of other areas of social activity. But this so-called realism is now beginning to blur more and more employees who have accepted it to date, who see exactly your deadlocks, the deadlocks of a bankrupt system, who feel that there must be another development path, the socialization of the means of production, the central scientific planning, the only road that can really meet modern popular needs. And that is truly realistic because it is indeed the only philosopher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, too. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is not Mr Tsipras here, I wanted to make him a good point, well-meaning, not bad comment. But he's on TV. Today, Prime Minister, the CEC has shown that it was against how well we deceived the European Union and I am not talking about you. I am referring to the money that the European Union gives and which each government chooses to use not because it wants to help the Greek economy but because it wants to help the people, to some mysteries, to some programmes that are strange, while it is money that could be invested properly. And I hope you will do so now at least, since you say that you will restructure the JRC and it is to your credit, in any case, that you have understood it slowly. Because you were the Minister of Government and you of the New Democracy and PASOK did the same as SYRIZA. You know, in order to make legions, it's a given fact that they have to be paid. If it is not paid, ladies and gentlemen, that is to say the voter, the party executive, it will never vote. That's how you've had your word and that's how you're still doing right now. Now, let me say that it is good for Mr. Tsipras to hear what the Greek Solution says, because half of what we have said. And he gave it to Mr. Varoufakis, too, while it was things that we were talking about. Furthermore, for the seats we were talking about earlier, that is to say if a store that has a hundred square metres is obliged to operate in ten or fifteen square metres, in 1/4 of the space, it means that you have to do the same with the fixed costs - for example, I say - with PPC, with OTE, with its rent. It can't work at 100% when it works at 25%, it can't. But he asks the government to operate at 25% and pay for 100%! It's unorthodox, it's contradictory. Mr Tsipras, who complained, is not here, Prime Minister, that you were not as polite as you should and as good and as consensual as the Prespecies Agreement should be. Instead of thanking you for not doing a committee of inquiry, to see who was responsible for the prespecies' story and we signed a treacherous agreement, he's complaining from the top! You're supporting him today! We have tabled a request for a committee of inquiry, to see what your party will do. Will you agree to find out why we drove to the press? What was the need? What did we have to sign such a deal? What was the need and who was behind it? The other, Kammenos, said 50m euros, said 30m euros. Let's see. We have tabled it and we expect the New Democracy not to change a deal - because it does not want it, because the state keeps on doing so - but at least to see who is moral and natural perpetrators of crime. That is why Mr Tsipras does not complain, because he is well supported by the government, he continues his work. Don't be fooled. Today I saw SYRIZA fighting with New Democracy about who, Prime Minister, did the least of the harm - I heard you say that, unfortunately, and I am sorry - for the CEC. You said 'we didn't do it, you did it too'. I will be happy and live to see that moment where two camps, government and opposition, are fighting for who did the most good here. There's magic. Let us see two rival camps not fighting for at least evil but for the most good - it is very important! - Or whether they're doing a good job. I can't hear that, and that's what concerns me. I also insist on the Prime Minister and the New Democracy telling me not the goal of his Government, but the way we reach the goal. This is not Kavaphis 'value has the course', here the destination, the goal is important. Because Kavafis said it doesn't matter if you get to Ithaca but the route. This isn't the route, it's not a jungle. Here is a political, applied policy on the back of the Greek people. So you will tell us the way and not the target, because that is wrong. And because, Prime Minister, SYRIZA gave the money to the CECs, you had to give it to yourself. In your honor, you said you were wrong. We have to believe that, that's a reality. For the first time I heard a politician here saying 'I was wrong'. I really haven't heard. A mea culpa heard me, but it was Latin, who understood it, then with Andreas Papandreou. But we're actually going. You did the wrong thing, but you didn't fix it. You were about 1,070 or 1,040 euros, and now you're only giving 600. Why? I told you to do something. Take the 200, the 300 euros and give vouchers to buy Greek products, buy Greek agricultural products, Greek products! They do other countries, search and find it. I have told you examples. Why don't we do it? This is how we support the primary sector. I come to something that bothered me. I distinguished from the New Democracy the vote of arrogantness. Gentlemen, you haven't saved Greece yet! Okay, so this arrogance through sites, in the media, and so on, "the great Prime Minister"! I wish the great leader, any Prime Minister of the country, could prove for my country. I wish I could find a Capodist again, I know, if you'd like, a Free Venizelo. But the story isn't over yet. Now starts history. The story didn't end with the pandemic, and the Prime Minister knows well. That is why he is vigilant about what he said today, while his MPs go out and say 'what we would happen if the others were!' Well, look at what happens to us, if you don't do your job well and let others go. The others are opposition. And I say it in a very raw way, and there's some people waking up. And the worst of all is that you compare - the Prime Minister has, unfortunately - done so with negative examples. Why didn't you take positive examples, Prime Minister, comparisons? Why do you have to compare us well with Spain and Italy and Belgium - I say - and you do not compare us with other countries? And because I am not a person to believe what the media tell me - because it is customary for the media to serve interests either governmentally or interdependently, or the pimps, which a former Prime Minister here has ever said - I will tell you the simplest using my mind: in which countries has the pandemic become, gentlemen? Have you looked into it? I'll tell you what! In which countries did the dispersion not occur? I'll tell you now. Coincidence? I don't care, I'll testify. In countries that did not have international airports and connections with China there was no dispersion. Look into it. And I read this in a German university professor's article, who wrote in a German newspaper: "Where he had no international airport related to China or was not transit, they had no dispersal". Turkey - has Istanbul - has dispersed. Italy - Milan - has a dispersion. Spain - Barcelona, Madrid - has a dispersion. Belgium itself and where there was a continuous Chinese presence. But why? The Chinese New Year is early January, shortly after us. They went there, went back to Europe, to international airports and became the spread. It's called a professor. I'm not saying it. But from this point on until the Greek Prime Minister says, you know we had the least evil and have a hundred and fifty dead, it's too! Because I have a hundred and fifty dead! Because a hundred and fifty people lost their lives. It's not the Prime Minister's fault, but let's not boggle on top of everything we've achieved. We would have succeeded if we hadn't been dead. We had a thing. I'm saying this because, you know, some things we need to see more seriously. I heard the Prime Minister. You said no to everyone. And you told us, Prime Minister, that for the tests at first you said no to everyone because the committee indicated that. Didn't you say, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u104	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u105	For the tests, you said personally that you were instructed by the committee at the beginning not to do to everyone. That's right, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u106	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u107	Sure. Who did it to the committee? You. Look, sometimes words play a role. I didn't put Chiodra on. I didn't put the cardinal on him. In other words, I choose, "Yannis is buying, Yannis drinks." That's what you told us. You didn't hear. The truth is another, Prime Minister. We didn't have a test. Say it. It's not your fault. But we didn't have a test. It wasn't the whole planet. Don't come here and say things that don't apply. That's the bad thing. You won't even be serious after that if you tell me that, because it's just not true. You indicated to the committee, you did the committee and the committee indicated to you. Hey, that's not happening. It's a two-way relationship. Masks: The word describes what you said. ‘Supplementary measure’. That's what you said. Then why are you talking about fines? Since it is complementary, why should the other person pay a fine of EUR 150 if he does not wear it? Why should the unemployed person, the unemployed person, who does not have the 150 euros, pay a fine if he is unlawful, since it is complementary and is not important? Another supplementary, other necessary, and another protects your life. It's not the same thing. Let's get this straight. So the unemployed person, where will he find the 150 euros to pay for it? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President is ringing.]] You told us here, Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Vellopoulou, wait a minute. I wanted to ask you this: we have exceeded the time by two hours. I understand that important things have been said. The Prime Minister will not make use of the 15th in his tritology. He'll talk very little. Please, if possible, we must now stick to the end of the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u109	Is this going to happen to me and to Varoufakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u110	And the Prime Minister and everyone. The Prime Minister has 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u111	Leave the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister spoke more than anyone. And he had to talk more than anyone. It's not like that. Be fair, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u112	Let's go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u113	Let's go wherever we're going, but don't go to the end. I heard the Greek Prime Minister say - if these are not for some, they can leave if they do not want - that it was a huge success of the government to send messages in forty eight hours, that we have achieved this too. You know, Prime Minister, it's not very difficult. It's all computers. In other words, sending a message from a state that lives in 2020 and doing so in forty-eight hours, huh, is not a huge success. We didn't go to space. We didn't have spaceships made by my friend Poppas, those fine programs, where he'd take us all to space. We didn't become spacemen. SMS send. You didn't make any Parthenon, we didn't build a Parthenon. We did a SMS. I shall now go to the essence, because we support the primary sector, farmers, farmers and fishermen. I shall read - since the President of Parliament has a weakness - what the Xenophobian'resources or incomes' said, a book thousands of years ago. It therefore recommended to the Athenians, who had passed a throat of the Peloponnesian war, how Athens will emerge again, on how to live again. He told them four ways. One way was agricultural production, to have adequate and self-sufficient city - state of Athens. The Attica land - he said and writes - can feed its inhabitants. Products that are not planted in other regions thrive only on the Attica land. He said that a thousand years ago, ladies and gentlemen. The same will happen with Greece today. Thousands of products we can produce in Greece. Secondly, use of rich ground. Lavrio said it about the mines. We have gas, oil. We promised that. We lost it. Thirdly, exploiting ports - Piraeus - by building a shipyard, accommodation and purchases. He called it thousands of years ago! Today you're selling it. Fourth, equivalency. Taxe-equity scheme. Since then, our ancestors have said it, and today we cannot apply the simplest of all. We're being targeted. Primary sector. That's where you start. So Truman said - after thousands of years, ladies and gentlemen - that when farmers prosper and prosper, the country also prosper. When farmers and farmers thrive - Truman said so - the country thrives. And because some people will tell me about thousands of years ago, yesterday, Stro Khan - a well-known economist, you know, I imagine, many of you - said something very simple: those countries that rely on exports or on tourism are finished. Only those who produce...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u114	Exports of raw materials.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u115	Yes, and tourism. So Greece, unfortunately, is based on tourism. We must restructure our tourism industry, if we consider it industry, because the situation is distorting. Here I have a different philosophy from New Democracy. The new Republic has always said, Prime Minister, and you said it, that the state cannot be an entrepreneur. I strongly disagree. The German state cannot be an entrepreneur, it cannot be Italian, French, American and it cannot be Greek. Then you can't be businessmen. You're just politicians. I want the politician to think entrepreneurially, because the businessman thinks the profit, how he wins. If the politician thinks how my Greece will win, my Greece will get better. That is what we say and it is a different approach. And that was the wrong tactic we've been in for decades. We must support the food industry, which is tomorrow, the water that is tomorrow, because that is where the great battle will take place, as evidenced by developments. If countries close their borders, as most of them have done, Prime Minister, I fear that we will not have food, because most of them are imported. We must support domestic processing. We need to change our tourism. Specific things. I want the Prime Minister to tell me if a new memorandum is coming, if he has information that a new memorandum is coming. It is important for the Prime Minister here to say that there is no new memorandum coming, that the New Democracy will not sign a new memorandum. Because if the New Democracy signs a new Memorandum, that means we're going to new adventures. I told you about the hotels. You want to open the hotels. Well, do something very simple: reduce PPC's accounts. It cannot have the same fixed size as a huge area that will be obliged to have fewer customers, because there is a crisis and it must protect its customers. You cannot say that a hotel with a hundred beds will work with twenty, thirty - which means 30% to have a chance of winning - but will have the same cost as a hundred beds. It won't come out. It's not coming out. It's very simple. Also - to help people who make advertising of the country - for me from now on, if you want to make tourist view - is not Theocharis here - the slogan must be one: the country's health insurance. It's gonna be the slogan. If you want to play tourists, beyond our beauty, play with the country's health insurance, that we are the safest destination. If you say - and you are right, the Germans say so - the French say so, the Italians say so. - that we went well, use this as a siege ram, so that we can break the problem that others have. Unfortunately, unfair competition? I don't care. My Greece wins. I don't care either Italy or France or Spain or Germany. Play with it. Mr. Tsipras, I see you're back. You weren't here. I said the best for you. I said you complained that Mr Mitsotakis did not support you in the Prespes, but I told him that today you support him well. Today he supports you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u116	You guys were doing fine toward the end. Now you're repeating?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u117	Repeat the mother of all learning for those who were not here or for those who are here. I'm going to tourism. At some point a plan has to be made with thermal and thermal tourism. The revenue we can earn, Prime Minister, is about 3.5 billion. I will give you an example. We have seven hundred and fifty medical sources in Greece. Germany uses them and makes a lot of money. Do you know how many things work? One hundred and twenty-four. Seven hundred and fifty are under-operating - they do not work - a hundred and twenty-four. Revenue from this? Three billion euros. Globally, the turnover is about 57 billion euros. Greece could be able to do so, and it is a primary possibility. I also insist on supporting fishermen, agriculture and livestock. Prime Minister, do you know that our country since 1981, since PASOK, has so far not designated fishing zones? Do you know that the Aegean with the Moroccan, Algerian and Turkish veins is devastated, why have we not set fishing zones at twelve miles? I'm not talking about territorial waters now. I'm talking about fishing zone. The European Union has been waiting since 1981. Do you know when it ends? March of 2021. If you don't do it where you're the last government, we're losing the chance. Well, it can't all be symptoms! They're symptoms of a process with pathogens. This is where I'm going to say it right away, so everyone can figure it out. We need to prepare ourselves for a food war that comes, a global food war. Because if the pandemic continues, they will close borders, which means that the food will be very important for the Greeks to survive. And we have neither sufficient nor self-sufficiency. Because the president is pressing and I don't want to be a bad guy and he's yelling, I'm going to table in the Minutes a proposal for amateur unions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u118	Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u119	I have proposals for the country's amateur unions. Subsidy of part of the payroll of three months. The paradoxes they're paying even now while they're not working. Look at the municipal stadiums used by amateur clubs and pay rent. See the suggestions I make in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Hellenic Solution, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Check the gasoline. There cannot be gasoline worldwide and in Greece, friends and friends, that we have a problem with high prices. Because I said adequacy and self-sufficiency to tell you that Romania and Russia have suspended exports of cereals. Soon we'll call it the bread. That is why we need to reorder our logic at primary level in the fourth and fifth generations. The advertising of Greek products. I insist, Prime Minister. Make aggressive advertising of Greek products. I won't say about public investment. It must be increased anyway because this is where development is, Minister. But let me tell you about illegal immigrants. It's something I have to do. A Greece that went bankrupt, a Greece that has problems and gives benefits to Greek citizens to survive, to long-term unemployed, etc., gives 500 and 600 euros. Some people give them. The NGOs and the European Union. Prime Minister, if you don't take the poachers to the inhabited islands, as I told you, and in private, I fear the explosions that are coming will be terrifying. Done at Samos. They set on fire, because the gangs between them, I wanted some power to pay while it's free. Some people are sad, uncomfortable, and they're a little stiff. I don't care. I'll call it in here. I repeat and stress it. I would ask that some, gangs, in Samos, pay power for these poor people, refugees, immigrants, illegal immigrants - I do not care - while it is free. And they made mafias inside Samos. They burned it and the Greek will pay for it. These are mistakes. To the uninhabited, because the coronary is next to us. Let me remind my friends in the New Democracy that you are doing well in public. That's a reality. I never believed in polling. But remember something. Today the Greek is fighting for a living. To live and not die. In twenty days' time that story will end, it'll try to live for euphoria so that it can live better. Since you have no plan and programme, Prime Minister, reorder the logic of living, go to the euphoria to live well, to live well and to live well. But it wants initiatives from you because I'm afraid your ministers are curbing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u120	Mr Yiannis Varoufakis, President of the MERA25 Parliamentary Group, is hereby called on to move to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, we really don't know. You're right. We are living what Frank Knight had termed the 'rotial uncertainty'. Not only do you know what's going to happen, but you don't even know the possibility distribution of the different results. It's a reality. Indeed, you are right - and I will agree with you too - that the people are not interested in who will be credited with the difference between my forecast, your forecast, Mr Tsipras, Mr Stournaras and the result. What is of interest to the people is from you, from the government, from the parties to a debate like today to hear assessments and how these assessments are interconnected with proposed policies and actions. What the honourable Member and the honourable Member want, the citizen to hear from you, Mr Mitsotakis, today, is this. "I appreciate as the country's responsible Prime Minister that the recession will be so. Without knowing it'll be that long. But this is the average of my estimates. My government is preparing on the basis of this assessment to do this. If I fall out 5% up or 10% down I will do the other." In other words, depending on the dispersion of the error of assessment policies. That's your job. You have a sacred obligation to do that. If your financial staff do not have such an allocation of estimates and have not linked each of these estimates to one of them, then we are talking about a complete failure of the government. If you have this distribution of estimates and you know what you will do in each of the possible manifestations of this procedure and you do not inform Parliament, then you are currently in breach of Parliament's process of informing Parliament of the economic issues that you have started. If you do this, what can I tell you? Perhaps you would like to use Parliament's Step for a pre-election presentation. That's how I take it. Unless you don't have a plan, if you don't have any estimates. So you had to quit yesterday. When you are facing a pandemic, such a disaster does not qualify as a governor as manager of the crisis not to have such an allocation of estimates. Do you have it? Are you going to tell us? So, let me use the time - I will not spend a minute more than what you have given me, Mr President, of the House - to repeat my seven questions. But I will repeat it in the context of the allocation of estimates. Prime Minister, depending on the different sizes of the crisis, if we have 10% less than how much will you borrow in 2020, 2021 and 2022? If it's less than 8%, how much will you borrow? If it's minus 15%, how much will you borrow? Second, you're going to lower the public wages? What should be the recession, what should be the percentage of GDP corresponding to your primary deficit to say I will cut public wages. Answer us. I'm not asking you to be a prophet, but tell us if it's over so much a percent, then I'm gonna start thinking about a public wage cut. In the private sector under what conditions will you begin to table proposals in this Parliament to cut the minimum wage for the abolition of collective agreements? Same for pensions. What should be the size of the urban wave of the recession to start cutting pensions? And what will be the correlation between the size of the recession and the size of the pension cut? Say it here. That was the purpose of today's debate. If we have a minus 12% primary deficit in the budget, what do you think will be the size of the austerity that the troika will impose on you next year or in 2022? An estimate. What demand will be made by the troika, which will be a red line for you and will you tell them 'no pasaran'? No way. Is there or will you say yes to what they suggest or impose? On the question of your banks, I asked a specific question. Do you agree with the assessment of Mera25 that recapitalisation will be needed after the end, the final of the HERAKLIS project for resolution? You may be indifferent. But tell us. The second question that goes with the first package. If recapitalisation takes place, will you get shares with no vote, as took place in Samaras - Venizelos? These are specific questions. They're dependent on different estimates. Finally, once again, will you freeze the "HRAKLE"? Am I wrong to say that if you don't freeze him you're going to have to borrow but 12 billion for the predator funds? And if I'm not wrong, will you freeze it? And if you don't freeze it, why won't you freeze it? Do you know what 12 billion means? You know but the rest of Parliament and the citizens who listen to us: 7.5% of GDP of the year. That's what it means. Will you get a loan of 7.5% of GDP in such a situation that the country is in, to give it to predators who will immediately the next day make this money as currency outside Greece? Answer us. It's a very simple question. Prime Minister, we have agreed that Eurobonds or something like Eurobonds are a necessary treaty - not sufficient but necessary - so that national debt is not charged with the cost of this collapse. That is why you embraced the Eurobond. You said, however, that the summit is being fought not only by you, but also by colleagues, I imagine, by the Italian, Mr Conde, Mr Sanchez and others, in order not to impose the budgets of the States and national debts. Really? Mr Mitsotakis, you have misinformed Parliament. That's what you sold. Finish this game. This game you lost. This battle has been lost since on 9 April Mr Stagioras accepted on your behalf the abolition of the idea of Eurobonds and the replacement of the loan by the ESM and since you accepted this recovery fund, which you referred to, on the basis of guarantees and loans. The story of the Eurobond, the debt restructuring, has expired so that these billions that the Greek economy will need do not add to the Greek budget, the Greek deficit and, of course, accumulate on national debt. You said quite rightly that we are part of a European family and that it cannot be a country alone. That's right. A country is not enough. But the prerequisite for this country to be saved is to have at least one veto at the summit. If there is no veto, Dutch and German memorandum armies will pass over our country and you know that. Without a veto. Mr. Mitsotakis, who is currently obliged to veto? Mr. McCrone or you? There is no doubt that in the long term France's public debt is not viable. But is France comparing the problem with the problem we have? If it does not veto the summit, at the Eurogroup, the representative of the country most affected by all the other countries, the representative of the country that can have - fortunately and well - both in your Government and our people - the smallest number of victims of the coronary, but has the largest number of hungry victims throughout the European Union. If you do not veto that this debt will not be transferred to the shoulders of the Greek public debt, to the government, to the state, there will be no chance of recovery in the next ten years. You said before that, in 2015 with our own government - when we were together - the Greek people were forced to be loaded on their shoulders by an inappropriate third memorandum. Look, having political controversy between us is absolutely legitimate. Do you want to criticise both my ministerial service and the SYRIZA government for the first five, six months? Do it. But you are hurting your credibility when you refer to the third memorial as inappropriate. Because when you're bankrupt, two are the solutions. There's no third one. One solution is debt restructuring, and that is what we went to do, and we demanded and conflicted with the troika that said 'in no case should you discuss debt restructuring' or take a Memorandum. There's nothing third. What you said about credit lines is a memorandum. Let me just say it. When you left the government - and stop saying this about 2014 - in 2014, GDP in euro was lower than it was in 2013. Let that go. But beyond that, and if you were in the government, you would have received 7.2 billion from the troika to pay 22 billion that year and the following year 18 billion. It would either be a haircut of this debt, debt restructuring, or a third memorandum, whether you or us. We fought not to take a third Memorandum, and you were applauding each time Diaselblum spoke, which basically said "Take the third Memorandum and put it in prerequisites". Today I am watching you, and I am afraid, because when you talk about the third inappropriate memorandum, you are basically saying that you are continuing to deny the bankrupt dilemma. We are bankrupt today, we were bankrupt in 2015, we were bankrupt in 2012, in 2011, in 2010 as a state. When you're bankrupt or restructure the debt or get a new Memorandum loan. Speaking of an inappropriate memorandum in 2015 - the third - what you are actually signalling is that you are going very rapidly for the fifth, as if you were government in the first five months or six months of 2015. Prime Minister, you have not questioned the numbers of the upcoming austerity I have put before you. That is clever of you because I think they are even modest. I was hoping you could tell me I was wrong. Do you know why? Because I want to be wrong. I want things to go much better. I'm so sorry you didn't deny me these numbers. But, in fact, by not denying these figures, you have confirmed the Fifth Memorandum and, of course, the elections that you are going to make for it without precedent to a people who are currently facing a pandemic and an economic collapse. Mr President, allow me to conclude by saying that I wish even now what I have been asking for for a month and a half. Teleconferencing all three hundred MPs so that they can function properly, as could have been the first day, the House. Mr President of the House, let me inform you that today at 20.00 in Mera25 there will be a teleconferencing conference with two hundred and thirty-three members of us in Thrace. We're not going to Thrace, don't be afraid. We'll do it from our house by teleconferencing. If you have a technical problem in this House, please tell us to send the two children who help us make the teleconferencing to help the House. Finally, I should like to thank you because I have learned that two days ago at the Conference of Presidents, you have committed yourself to putting an end to the misery affecting Members' ability to exercise our parliamentary duties without arbitrary, unconstitutional restrictions on men from the Security Councils. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u122	And the Prime Minister, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, closes with his tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u123	Mr President, I will be brief. The natural order of the parliamentary order always brings me to speak after Mr Varoufakis. I sincerely did not intend to refer to this issue at all, but I cannot comment on cynical openness, specifying what the country's options were at the beginning of 2015: a new memorandum or debt restructuring. Why didn't you vote for that? Why did you deceive the Greek people then, telling him that you would tear the memoirs with a law and an article? This question has not yet been answered. Even though the order is very late and we are learning what really happened in the first half of 2015. To try to close this debate, Mr President, I think it has been carried out in a good and basically constructive climate, and I hope that this will also be the tone that will prevail in Parliament in the coming weeks, in the coming months, as we have, as I have said, a very dense legislative work. We have an obligation to face up to the major challenges above all sincerity and the government, as I have said several times, is here to be accountable to Parliament, to be accountable through parliamentary control, which has not essentially been interrupted, obviously to answer at the level of Ministers and Prime Minister, whenever this opportunity is given, on the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of this House. We're not hiding the difficulties. Again, I will say that the ability to predict the depth of the recession is an exercise that has only theoretical characteristics today. Obviously, others are the scenarios if the recession is too deep and others are the scenarios if the recession eventually turns out to be not so deep. And obviously we and the financial staff and the European obligations we have to submit in the medium term are also taking into account all these parameters. But they have a large, intrinsic factor of instability. Allow me to make three quick comments on individual sectoral issues that have been raised by political leaders and which I would not like to leave. First of all, it is the reference to farmers and Mr Tsipras and Mrs Gennimata. As you know, we have allocated an additional allocation of EUR 150 million to the Ministry of Rural Development to support rural income targets. We will look closely at the impact of the crisis on agricultural production, supply chain and food safety. Obviously we are here to look at and to study to what extent additional support for the primary sector will be needed. On the issue of tourism, Greece first pointed out at European level the absolute need for a European coordinated response to the issue of transport, in particular air transport, but also the way in which the tourism product can function during the summer. I would like to remind you that after our statements, initial statements made by important European executives, one might not be able to travel from northern Europe to southern Europe this summer. Today, the European Commission has taken a clear line from the Council, after intense pressure from us. I believe that very soon there will be clear announcements on how tourism can be supported and what should, in particular, be those protocols, which will allow all of us - those who want to visit Greece, but also the Greeks who want to travel abroad - to travel safely. Above all, we put the safety of visitors and the security of Greek citizens. These developments are very important. Yes, you have a right, Mr Velopole, when you say that we have an added value today as a country that is'speaking' - and I believe quite rightly - that he has managed the health crisis well. This creates a reserve of confidence, which obviously helps us the next day as a whole in how we promote the destination of Greece. It does, of course, create interesting other opportunities in our medium-term development plan, as I believe that it will strengthen overall the prospect that Greece can have in what is called English - and I use the English term because there is no accurate English translation - Silver economy, that is, an economy that is mainly aimed at people of middle age or retired people for whom health issues obviously play a very important role. This is a medium-term debate to be held and to be held at the initiative of the Greek Government. I'm on a very important subject. It was well raised by all the political leaders. I am referring to culture. Look, we will need to do a special exercise and I have already given the relevant directions to the Ministry of Culture, on how the cultural sector can and must be supported in the short and medium term. We should see and I have asked the scientists for this, although in what way - I hope they are in 'and in what way' rather than 'if' - we can have open cultural events this summer, such as festivals and concerts. I was a little more sceptical about the proclamation I made. I would, however, like to see the cultural sector paralysed in the summer because I know that this is the period when many people who are involved in culture are waiting to be able to support their annual income. I have also asked the Minister of Culture, in consultation with the Ministry of Labour, to see whether we can and how we can redistribute resources from the NSRP for a targeted programme to support unemployment in the cultural sector. This issue has rightly been raised. We will speak very briefly about this sector with concrete measures and concrete proposals, and I believe that we will be able to reach a programme that eases the negative effects on the cultural sector to the fullest extent possible, from the fact that this summer's confrontation in open spaces will not be possible under the same procedures and rules as has always been done to date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-30-S1-commons.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate has been concluded in accordance with the special agenda. The average length of the last eight corresponding sittings under Rule 142a, namely the Rules of Procedure, is two hours and thirty-two minutes. The duration of today's sitting was six hours and twenty minutes. In other words, with a closed House, we met six hours, while with an open House we met two hours. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
