ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to the Parliament's 29-7-2020 authorisation, the minutes of the PKK meeting of Wednesday 29 July 2020 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, with regard to the vote in the entire draft law: ‘Forum interventions to strengthen the development process of the Greek economy, incorporation into Greek legislation of the Directives (EU) 2017/1852, (EU) 2018/822, (EU) 2018/876, (EU) 2016/1164, (EU) 2018/1910 and (EU) 2019/475, public contribution to the repayment of loans for affected borrowers due to the adverse effects of COVID disease -19 and other provisions’.]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 4 to 8]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION ‘Following before the House, by its President, between the members of the Council of State, the Ice and the Prosecutor of the Ice Region, who are appointed or promoted to the extent that they possess before the submission of the proposal for prosecution, to highlight five regular and three alternate members of the Judicial Council, as well as his Deputy Prosecutor and Deputy, in accordance with Articles 86(4) of the Constitution, 158(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure and 8 of Law 3126/2003 ‘Christian Responsibility of the Ministers’, as applicable, after 22 July 2020, to carry out criminal proceedings against the former Deputy Minister of Justice, Dimitrios Papagopoulos, for the possible conduct of criminal offences by the former Deputy Minister of Justice in the performance of his duties’. I would like to tell you a short story about how we arrived here. Following Protocol No 2471/23-2020 my letter to the Minister of Justice, Mr Constantine Tsira, was sent to Parliament under Protocol No 2494/24-2020 of the Minister of Justice with a list of members of the Council of State, the Ice Authority and the Prosecutor of the Ice Authority appointed or promoted to the extent that they possess, before the proposal to prosecute on 26 September 2019, before the proposal of the thirty Members required, to initiate the procedure in accordance with Articles 86(4) of the Constitution, 158(1) and (2) of our Rules of Procedure and of Law 3126/2003 on the criminal liability of the ministers, as applicable. The relevant list shall be entered in the minutes of Parliament and shall be as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u2	The first Vice President of Parliament, Nikitas Kaklamanis, the second Vice President, Charalambos Athanasios Athanasios, the third Vice President, Athanasios Bouras, the fourth Vice President, Dimitrios Vitsas and the second Vice President, Odysseas Constantinople. Secretary of the Committee is the Secretary of Parliament and Member of the West Attica of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Evangelos Liakos. Three draws will be held successively. The first draw will take place between the members of the Ice Bay, which are included in the list sent, to show three members and two alternate members of the Judiciary Board. The second draw will be held among the members of the Council of State, which are included in the list sent, for the appointment of two members and one alternate member of the Judiciary Council. The third draw will be held from the list of members of the Prosecutor's Board of Appeal for the appointment of the Prosecutor of the Judiciary and his deputy. Lotteries will be held as follows: The names of the Judges of each lot will be read by the First Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Nikitas Kaklamanis. The second Vice President of Parliament, Mr. Charalambos Athanasios, will wrap the clergy. The third Vice President, Athanasios Bouras, will place one to one in the corresponding opaque ball, which will throw into the transparent cellar, which is already on the Chair. The opaque balls will then be properly mixed into the transparent cellar by Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas, Second Vice President of the Parliament. Finally, the President of the Parliament will take up one - one of the balls from the poll and each ball to be recovered will be handed over to the H' Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos, who will open it and show it to the President of the Parliament and to the Vice President present and after announcing the name Mr. Constantinople, he will hand it over to the Secretary Evangelos Liakos, who will write the name in the Minutes. From the first call in which the lots with the names of the members of the Ice Bay will be placed, three lots will be exported for the designation of three regular members of the Judiciary Council and two lots for the appointment of the two alternate members. On the second poll, in which the lots with the names of the members of the Council of State will be placed, two lots will be exported for the appointment of two members of the Judiciary Council and a lot will then be exported for the appointment of an alternate member. Finally, from the third call in which the lots with the names of the members of the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena will be placed, a lot will be exported for the purpose of highlighting the prosecutor's duties as Public Prosecutor of the Judiciary and a lot for the appointment of his deputy. As stated in Protocol 2494-24-2020, a letter from the Minister for Justice, which sent us the list of members of the Council of State of the Ice Region and the Prosecutor of the Ice Region, which also includes existing obstacles due to the existence of a matrimonial relationship between one of the detainees - one of the detainees - we would say earlier - because of which they are not allowed to join the same procedural act or action in accordance with Article 8(1) of Law 1756/1988 of the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Communities, if one of the two is taken and the other spouse is then taken, is considered as non-confidential and another member of the Ice Bay, of the State or of the Prostitution of the Igos, respectively. Ladies and gentlemen, do you agree with the proposal on the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u3	The House therefore unanimously agreed on the procedure announced. So now we're moving on to the draw. Please, Mr Kaklamani, start reading the list of members of the Ice Arena. [[At this point I begin reading the list of members of the Ice Arrow from the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikita Kaklamanis.]] REPRESENTATIVES OF THE PAGE SERVICES 1. Good peace. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Demetra Cocotine. DEVELOPMENTS 1. Bijuni Dionysia 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Georgios Papaliadis 3. Flours - Calevidos 4. Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used 5. Franku Navals 6. Miltiades Hadjigeorgiou 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Maria Janakakis - Sarantakis 8. Nicolaos Pipilikas 9. Integrity Papia 10. Georgios Papandreou (wife of Areopagite Ms. Heliopoulou) 11. Antigone Karaiscu - Palogo 12. Vassiliki Heliopoulou (husband of Areopagitou Mr Papandreou) 13. Observations of the Court of Justice Theodoros Canelopoulos 14. Observed. Anastasia Peristerakis 15. Gregory Kotsokostas 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions Christos Jannerikos 17. Luke Morfis 18. Eleni Frankakis 19. Maria Vassilis of Andreas 20. Flowers of Gamari 21. Zambeta Strata 22. George Christodoulou 23. (Bull. Penelope - Parcelidou Konnou 24. Constantine Mauritius 25. Maria Kouvidou 26. (') OJ No L 26, 26. 2. 1992, p. 1. Michalette Static 27. Olga Plantaki - Bonatou 28. Alexandra Siotis (husband Public Prosecutor of the Ice Arrow Mr. Plyotas) 29.0 p.m. Theodore Mantuvalos 30. Golden Flour - Near 31. Georgios Kokaris 32. (') OJ No L 32, 31. 3. 1991, p. 1. Acasoglu pelagic 33. (') OJ No L 33, 31. 3. 1991, p. 1. Elisabeth Tsiridou 34.Bull. Vasileios Mahara (wife of Areopagite Ms. Alevizopoulou) 35. Kalliopi Pan 36. 0 OJ No L 36, 3. 3. 1992, p. 1. Heavy Papadakis 37. Maria Moulianitaki 38. Nikolaos Vergitsakis 39. Constantina Alevizopoulou (husband of Areopagite Mr Mahari) 40. Catherine Crystallidou - Morresis 41. Marianth Pauteli 42. Papachius Myrsini 43. Anastasia Muzaki
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the names of forty-fifths of five judges from the list of members of the Ice Bay have been recognised in total. It is also noted that all the names to be drawn have been placed in the balls - one in each ball - and all placed in the transparent cellar. I would ask the Second Vice President of the House, Mr. Dimitrios Vitsa, to mix the balls in the gallery.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, the following three judges were served in turn as members of the Judiciary: 1. Olga Plantaki - Bonatou 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Constantina Alevizopoulou 3. Penelope - Parcelidou Konnou As alternate members, the following two Judges were served on the list of members of the Ice Bay: 1. Manufacture in which the value of all the materials used 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Miltiades Hadjigeorgiou I would like now to begin reading the list of members of the Council of State. [[This is where the list of members of the Council of State begins to be read by the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis.]] REPRODUCERS OF THE COUNCIL OF THE DESCRIPTION 1. Maria Karamanoff 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Ioannis Gravaris 3. Chrysikopoulou 4. Dimitrios Skaltsunis 5. Michael Pikrained SUBJECT TO THE COUNCIL OF THE CONCLUSION 1. Gorzolida margarita 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Enthusias Antonopoulos 3. Georgios Tsimekas 4. Pyramid Marcatis (husband of Counsellor Mrs Carlis) 5. Panagiota Carlis (wife of Counsellor Mr Marcatis) 6. Marina Papadopoulou 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Diomedes Kyrilopoulos 8. Anna Kalogeropoulou 9. Olga Wheat 10. Barbara Raftopoulou 11. Konstantinos Kosoulis 12. Constantina Filopoulou 13. Observations of the Court of Justice Theodoros Aravanis 14. Observed. Dimitris Makris 15. Komvos Brigade 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions Friday (husband of Counsellor Mr Mazu) 17. Elias Massos (husband of Counsellor Mrs Braimis) 18. Anastasia - Maria Papadimitriou 19. Christos Duhanis 20. Royal Kinjiu 21. Eleni Papademiriou 22. Victoria Plaputa 23. (Bull. Olga Papadopoulou 24. Maria Sotiopopoulou 25. Ioannis Symposium 26. (') OJ No L 26, 26. 2. 1992, p. 1. Panagiotis Tsukas 27. Constantina Connidichiotou - Kollia 28. Love Galenianos - Chalkiadakis 29.0 p.m. Angelica Minzia 30. Ioannis Speralakis 31. Roxanne Giannulat 32. (') OJ No L 32, 31. 3. 1991, p. 1. Christina Sitara 33. (') OJ No L 33, 31. 3. 1991, p. 1. Marlene Tripolistic 34.Bull. Pineapples 35. Christos Liakouras 36. 0 OJ No L 36, 3. 3. 1992, p. 1. Argyraki's virality 37. Nikolaos Scarbellis 38. Vasilis Androlyakis 39. Ktistakis cross-breeding 40. Francesca Giannakou 41. Straightness Darkness
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u6	Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the names of forty-six judges from the list of members of the Council of State were recognised in total. It is found that all the names to be drawn have been placed within the balls - one on each ball - and all placed on the transparent cellar. There's a chance one didn't fall in and fall into the other box. That's why we're counting again. Instead of throwing it into the candle, he threw it in the box he took it from. Found, entered the cellar and completed the number of forty six balls. It's the name of Helen Papadimitriou. Enters a ball and is placed in the cellar. I now ask the Second Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Dimitrios Vitsa, to mix the balls in the gallery.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, as you have seen, two Judges were, in turn, served as members of the Judiciary Council from the list of members of the Council of State: 1. Dimitrios Skaltsunis 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Vasilis Androlyakis As an alternate member, the following was taken as a Judge from the list of members of the Council of State: 1. Enthusias Antonopoulos I would now like to begin reading the list of members of the Prosecutor's Board of Appeal. [[The list of members of the Prosecutor's Office from the First Vice-President of the Parliament Mr Nikita Kaklamani begins at this point.]] INTRODUCTION OF PAGE SERVICES 1. Vassilios Pitas (marriage of Areopagite Mr. Siotis) CONTRACTS OF PAGOU SERVICES 1. Vourliotis pearl 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Theodorou Basilica 3. Essential Spiropoulou 4. Panagiotis Karagiannis 5. Anna Zaire 6. Ioannis Konstantinopoulos 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Dimitrios Papageorgiou 8. Eleni Metsovitou - Flour 9. Excellency Theodosis 10. Ioannis Provatararis 11. Vassilis Aldoupis 12. Olga Pyrelis 13. Observations of the Court of Justice Isidor Doyakos 14. Observed. Anastasia Dimitriadou 15. Georgios Gerakis 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions Dimitrios Asprogiras 17. Vasilis Papadas
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, as you have seen, the names of eighteen judges from the list of members of the Prosecutor's Office of the ice. It is found that all the names to be drawn have been placed within the balls - one on each ball - and all placed in the cart. Please again, Mr. Dimitrios Vitsa, Vice President of Parliament, to mix the balls in the gallery. [[At this point, the fourth Vice President of Parliament, Dimitrios Vitsas, mixes the balls in the gallery.]] Mrs. Royal Theodore. Mr. Vassilis Pilotas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, the bourgeoisie - the prosecutor in this case - has been taken over by the Prosecutor of the Judiciary: 1. Theodorou Basilica. As a deputy, she was detained from the list of members of the Prosecutor's Office of the Ice Bay: 1. Vassilios Pilotas. As you have seen, there was no case of incompatibility with a spouse's draw, so we didn't have to deal with it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to empower the Bureau to confirm the Minutes on the agenda, because the list of members of the Judiciary with the alternate members, as well as the prosecutor of the Judiciary with his deputy, must be sent to the President of the Ice Bay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u10	Therefore, as I understand it, the House has unanimously given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the special agenda procedure has been completed. On this occasion, I would like to inform you of the following. At 12.15'' in the living room of the President of the Parliament, we will sign the contract, which the House unanimously voted on, for the construction of the fifty seats of ITH at the "SOTRIA" Hospital, which is from the donation of the Parliament. The formal procedures have been completed, the Court of Auditors has approved and I would ask the President-in-Office at that time to arrange for a five-minute interruption to be carried out so that the Minister and the State Secretary for Health can be signed. That is why I ask you to understand and then you will continue. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are adjourning the sitting for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Before we move on to legislative work, let me first tell the House on Friday 31 July. A. PERSONS First Cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 951/21-7-2020 of the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition, Mr.Nectarios Santorini, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "The fertilities in the implementation of Transport Equivalent lead the islands to despair". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 959/27-7-2020, by MP Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Direct restoration of discrimination against five thousand pensioners of the Commercial Bank from the former ETAT". 3. The question by No 961/27-7-2020, by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "The adoption of measures to protect the income of seasonal workers". 4. The question under number 953/22-7-2020 of the Athens Department of Athens, Maria Athanasiou, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The need to cover expenditure by the EEAP on sanitary consumables in favour of diabetic leg sufferers". 5. Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The disossomy of the HYTA Gender affects daily the quality of life and health in western Athens". B. PERSONS Second-cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 954/24-7-2020 of the Member of Parliament Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Health, on ‘Health checks at the Kakavia border station due to COVID -19’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 963/27-7-2020, by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The problems of students at the IEK DELTA Patras". 3. The question by No 957/27-7-2020 was raised by MP B2' West Athens Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Serious discrimination against the positive people who lack the necessary examinations." 4. The question under number 955/24-7-20 is a topical question by MP B3' South Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theanos Fotio to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Great responsibility for the tragic errors in the matching of children and prospective parents during the recent implementation of the Act on Admission and Adoption". 5. Under number 958/27-7-2020, a topical question by Piraeus II Piraeus, Mr. Fotinis Bakadammas, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Reference to the Promoting Institutions on the island of Rhodes". REFERENCES - Questions (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question, under number 7629-360-23-6-2020, was asked and applied for the submission of documents by MP B' Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Except for the design and approval of the HNP's pilot recycling programs with the Anti-recycling Recycling of S.A.". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question, under number 7583/22-20, was asked by MP II Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "In the air the preparation of the Special Environmental Studies and the protection of the protected areas of Greece".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the legislation of the Ministry of Health: "Consolidations to ensure access to quality health services - Establishment and Statute of the Quality Assurance Agency for Health S.A. (O.D.P.A. S.E.) and other emergency provisions of the Ministry of Health'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 23 July 2020 to discuss the draft law at a single sitting on the principle, the articles and the amendment. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u13	The House has agreed. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Constantine Maraveyas, has the floor for 15 minutes. Please open the electronic system for the registration of colleagues. It will remain open until the second rapporteur, Mr Blonde, that is to say until his introduction is finished. Mr. Maraveya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this bill comes to address an obvious need in the area of health, the guarantee and certification of quality health services offered to all citizens. This is the purpose of the creation of the PPP. The concept of quality in health services includes the efficiency of procedures, their technical excellence, safety for staff and patients, accessibility and ultimately the effectiveness of the services provided with a centre at all times the patient. All this, of course, has to do with the functionality of infrastructure and equipment, but also with the staff themselves, from the practice of clinical doctors and nurses, the standard procedures followed by laboratory and technicians, as well as the services offered by their auxiliary, administrative and technical staff. All of this can and should be measured with specific evaluation indicators. Chronic waiting for patients, precision of machines, patient satisfaction, treatment success rates are only a few of the sizes that are perfectly measurable in health care. In particular, the PPPY will focus on the evaluation of health services in our country and will have the following characteristics. This is a public utility agency that belongs 100% to the Greek State and will be controlled exclusively by it. In particular, for operating matters, it will be supervised by the Ministry of Health, at the same time under the 2005 TECHNICAL Law. The main aims of the PPPI are to improve the quality of health services in Greece and enhance the safety of patients. Its tool will be the control and certification of health establishments. By definition, all health establishments, public and private, shall be subject to the supervision of their services by the PPPY at the recommendation of the EEAY and the approval of the Ministry of Health. It is also intended to be possible to carry out emergency checks, if a patient's safety issue arises, or quality certification at the initiative of private providers independently by covering those costs. The Agency will be deployed via ASP. Its operation will be based on State grant, certification revenues and revenues from the use of its assets. The PPPY will be based exclusively on evaluation criteria dictated by best international practices and have been in the health sector for decades. These are purely scientific standards and procedures accepted by the World Health Organisation. The objective of quality certification is precisely to identify in good time any gaps in existing procedures and to prevent new malfunctions in the provision of health services. Help health units to improve, thus improving health care for all citizens, both primary and secondary. Articles 1 and 2 describe the main objectives of the proposed mechanism and set individual objectives, such as enhancing patient safety, rational reorganisation of the country's health services, equal access to citizens and universal coverage of the population. It is also explicitly foreseen that all health service providers are subject to the provisions of this Regulation, in particular: all hospitals of the National Health System, their decentralised units, interconnected hospitals and social care units that are administratively supervised by the Ministry of Health, health regions in terms of their administrative function, as well as hospitals governed by special provisions and supervised by the Ministry of Health, including the General Hospital of Papageorgiou and the Onasium of the Cardiff Centre, as well as the public primary health care services structures. Finally, all private health service providers are included without exception. In our country the problem of offering health care, public and private, was never the quantity as high as quality. For example, we are all aware of the overcapacity of services from private health. From polymedicines and diagnostic centers to clinics and rehabilitation centers, they're definitely not all the same. Not all offer the same level of service. Like all public hospitals and health centres, however, it is not the same. It is expected, but in Greece of the 21st century it cannot continue to be accepted. We must not go hand in hand with the operation of health units, whether public or private, which do not satisfy basic standards. There cannot be a public body dealing with the control of health services and ensuring their quality. It is incomprehensible that a country that has been in possession of a national health system for decades now does not have a public mechanism to certify the adequacy and safety of the services provided. For the New Democracy, it goes without saying that all diagnostic tests, treatments and hospitals carried out in our country, such as in most countries of the world, should be evaluated and certified. And it is just as obvious, at least for us, that these services should be offered to all citizens in the most efficient way. This means making the best possible use of the money, both of the public who go to the National Health System and of the insured persons channelled through the EEA. In other words, it is about protecting the contributions and money given from the pockets of the Greek people. It is unfortunate that opposition continues not to consider the need for efficient management of the funds allocated to health, resources intended to provide this best possible care. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already heard from the committees a number of conflicting positions which, as a doctor, and as a man in common, I have great difficulty in attending. For example, we have heard, for example, that quality assurance is not a technocratic assumption for some experts, because quality factors are critical political choices. And at the last meeting we were told by the same colleague that we should give the leading role in science and not in political management, the current scientists must come forward. This point defines in the clearest terms our enormous political difference. In any case, however, the position of the New Democracy is clear: we will never replace technocrats on technical issues. If we deny, for example, the international literature or the scientific standards used worldwide and say that we replace them on our own with some party positions, I think we end up in extreme bottlenecks. The New Democracy, as a side of seriousness and responsibility, makes use for the country of available expertise and international experience in favour of the public interest. In any case, it is clear that the PPP will only be based on criteria dictated by best international practices and there have been decades in the health sector. We're not going to find the wheel again. It would therefore be counterproductive to mention one in one of the evaluation criteria in the drafting of the bill, because only literature at some point is changed and then it would need a new law to be changed. To bring in another example of an organisation that performs scientific work, without this work going through the House every time, it would be as if we had to approve the medicines that are among the EEO-approved, the EEO that monitors all scientific developments by itself and is doing the work that we all know. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us now consider the most extreme criticism which has been heard and which is based on an arbitrary case, that if we find out from the experts who will make the certification of any deficiencies in a public health unit, it will allegedly be closed. As in all international quality assessment procedures, the findings of the auditors’ report, in addition to findings, include mandatory and proposed improvements. This is why it is always in an external evaluation process that follows the compliance stage, where account is taken of adapting the results of the body, of course always in relation to the resources available. Obviously, this is a process of resupplying health services, where, when there are deficiencies, sufficient time will be given to complete both the same and the Ministry of Health. No one's going to close health units under evaluation. Besides, internationally the role of quality certification is precisely to identify any gaps in time and to prevent the creation of new malfunctions in the provision of health services. In conclusion, the bill comes to cover a huge audit gap that exists in our country, but at the same time also a real need for patients: the creation of a quality assurance mechanism for health services, public and private. The fact that there are parties in the House who deny the need for such a protection mechanism for patients will surely be judged by Greek citizens and the New Democracy will have the opportunity to remark it again several times by the end of this four-year period. I must repeat what the Minister has said, because I consider it very important for health issues, which by their very nature do not match any party or colour. This bill, if we want to be honest, we all support it if we put it on a concrete basis. The New Democracy therefore fully supports this bill and obviously supports it for the good of all Greeks. On this point, Mr President, I feel the need to thank all the Members of Parliament for the excellent level we have maintained throughout the debate in the committees, despite any disagreements. However, they were said on the occasion of the bill and several things about the health sector, which are in the very opposite direction to their stated intentions of improving the health system, etc. I'm explaining. The special speaker of the Communist Party has been quoted on several occasions in the sub-scribing of the ESS, which no one has, of course, refused. This does not deny that a person must, in addition to adequate staffing, check the quality of the service provided. Quality is not just a matter of arithmetic. Who has ever checked a doctor for whether he is up-to-date, whether he is up-date in his knowledge? Not to mention his professionalism. When did we check, ladies and gentlemen, doctors, who we are doctors, after receiving the specialty? To believe that the appointment of a doctor, for example, in itself upgrades the quality of the service is out of reality. I am addressing you all with a question which I hope you will answer frankly. Were all good at the workplaces where you went from? Are all good at your own parties? Don't hurry to answer that. I was particularly upset that I did not hear a reference from the Opposition in the term 'application of guidelines', nor a reference to 'evidence - based - medicine'. You want to tell me you don't know them? Do you not want to measure whether they are applied if the sanitary are professional? Within the draft law, it is explicitly stated that the assessment will be measured on the basis of the resources available in each health unit to personnel and resources. That is why I have previously claimed that, if anything, there is a lack of understanding of the way, but also a misunderstanding of the purpose of this bill and the creation of that particular organism. What you also stood at is who will impose sanctions. So you do not understand that sanctions are, or would never, the starting point. I would also like to expressly remind you that sanctions will not be imposed on rated providers. But to make the assumption that no sanction is imposed on the providers checked, assessed, but did not comply with the suggestions made to them. Wouldn't you like to know that if you were in the position of the citizens addressing them? Would you like to continue to trust them with what you have most valuable health? SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Xanthos, has been vain that they want the evaluation, they want it, they have sought it, and they have actually implemented it over their days and they did not need any LAGs. I am ready to accept the truth of your claim, Mr. Xanthe, but where are your results? Where did you publish them? And most importantly, what corrective moves did you make? When I told you that private spending increased over your days by 17%, that was where you were upset. However, because I promised you that I would give you the data, I am presenting in the Minutes the table, which shows that from 2012 there is a difference. [[At this point the Member, Mr Constantine Maraveyas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I take into account 2012, and I catch up with you, because the public health expenditure, as you have recognised yourself, was higher and even in 2018. That is why I am omissioning the intermediate years and comparing things. I will do this to you a little worse than yesterday. The increase occurred while the average family expenditure was reduced and I quote the second table of ELSTAT, which I also present in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Constantine Maraveyas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thus, the citizen was deprived of more than others to provide these years with health services. And you know what this situation is that I just described? The lack of confidence in the public health system. Of course, it is not your responsibility entirely. Obviously it is the fault of everyone who had the country's rule. But what, if you please, is that you do not recognise the problem, so you are not voting in favour of a bill that could have been part of the solution to the problem. Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of my group with an answer which I have to give, because I am heard by the workers with whom I have been together every day until today. When you say, Minister, the burden of pandemic has lifted the public health system, I will agree with you in the narrowest sense of the term. However, I must inform you that at the time of the pandemic, the emergency departments have been devastated for some time, and those who had the opportunity to avoid them have been addressed for other health problems in the private sector, so that they do not find themselves close to cases. If we do not confess to this, we do not blame health care professionals, we wrong the seventy thousand private health workers, who gave themselves the best to alleviate their public health colleagues. These professionals, who are part of me as a family, are struggling to be so good at their job that they would even be able to lure their employers into applying for evaluation, even if they were not mandatory. They feel their work at home. And your house is looking out for it! We are therefore voting in favour of the bill to give the conscientious professionals a means to reward and promote less consistently an incentive to improve. The health in Greece must also be done once in the essence of the ambulance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u15	The rapporteur of SYRIZA, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u16	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are concluding today the debate on this bill. Let me make a little reference to the health situation of the period. We are in a, I think, a phase of alarming outbreaks, of stiffness both in our country and internationally. It is obvious that this requires alertness and improved reflexes. It appeared, after the first phase of quarantine, lockdown, etc., that provided a security, obviously, in society and gave the government the opportunity to triumph that we are now in a difficult situation. In our view, the role of science, the presence and recommendations of experts has, in our view, been reluctant in this interim period and the role of political management has been strengthened. That created problems. Whenever political, ladies and gentlemen, on the part of the government, begins to take the top hand, there are repetitions, contradictions, delays, oligopolistics, problems. Now it makes no sense simply to express our concern. I think the important thing is to make it clear again and to conclude that public health is an absolute priority. There is no dilemma between health safety and the sustainable functioning of the economy, tourism, etc. We need an absolute commitment to public health, social and political consensus standards. You have poisoned it on your own initiative during the previous period and this is very important. In the first phase, things went well because the measures were taken in time, but also because there was a climate in society and in the political system of consensus and consensus. You've poisoned it this time with initiatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u17	Are you referring to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u18	Not to you personally, Mr. Minister, Almond! I'm not talking to you. For your government, I also say about the toxicity interventions you create in the country's political scenery. So this urgently needs to be changed again on your own initiative. Better government reflexes and better epidemiological picture. We do not have a good epidemiological picture, ladies and gentlemen of the government. You tell us every day: “We have so many new cases. So many of them are at the gates of entry." How many of them checked? How many people checked? Yesterday, for example, we had seven, eleven imported cases. In a set of how many checks? To have an image. From which countries? How many imports are made to hospitals every day. Do we, in fact, have a picture of reduced morbidity and health burdens on people who are ill or not? These are important, and I think there is an information deficit here, both from the EGE and officially from the Ministry. Of course most important: consistency and stability and not ambiguities, regressions and exceptions. If we agree that the crucial issue and the critical transmission source are mass meetings, there must be restrictions and bans horizontally and without anyone being excluded, including adoring places, celebrations, parties, etc. This is about the overall climate. We, my dear colleague, Minister and fellow Members, will continue at this stage to behave with the same seriousness and responsibility as during the initial period. We will not invest in health and therefore in economic and social disasters. We really want society to come out with the least possible losses of this story, but that is now primarily your responsibility. The other issue of pandemic, in our view, is the great lesson revealed by studies, by public opinion research at this time. I read yesterday in the 'Preservers' Newspaper' a recent measurement of public opinion, which says that 88% of citizens appreciate the role of the public health system and its people and, of course, ask - and this is also interesting - for it to be strengthened with additional resources, etc. and, indeed, they consider that it is the public health system that can respond to such crises and threats. Mostly Greek society, 90%. What is also important is that in assessing the institutions that have played a role in managing this crisis, the first is the public health system, then civil protection, government, parties and lastly the media. This is the evaluation of society. So, in our view, what is the stake? The challenge is precisely with the experience, with the new needs, with the new requirements, with the long-term pathogens, distortions and deficits that have emerged through pandemic, to have a brave intervention, a long-term aid plan and the reorganisation of the public health system, its structures and the services provided. This is the crucial issue for us. Is the government moving in this direction? In our view, no. There is no permanent support plan for the public health system. You have not published a year after you took over the government and six months after the pandemic and neither a permanent post of doctor or other worker in the public health system, which was not launched by a cabinet act, with approval from the relevant ministries from the previous government. This is now identified by people trade unionists in the area of hospital doctors belonging to New Democracy. Today, I was reading in Mrs Pagoni's newspaper interview with the President of the EIAP, identifying this deficit, namely the deficit of a permanent nature, in the health system. Of course, you do not - I said that yesterday in committee - because you are bad people, but because you do not believe the public health system. You consider it a state of affairs and a distortion of competition that there is an investment with extra resources that improves the benefits, which will change the correlation between public private and public. That is the nuclear problem, and that is, my dear colleague, Mr New Democracy's rapporteur, our main difference. It is not our basic difference that you are in favour of quality and that we are not in favour of quality. Please do not simplify and do not do so low - let alone - the confrontation. Our basic difference is precisely in the philosophy and role of the public health system. Let's come to the bill now. Does this draft law therefore serve to support, strengthen, reorganise, improve efficiency, tonnage - the capacity - of Capacity - of the public health system? Because that is the social demand today. In our view, no. What's your account? We must measure quality and this is not measured in Greece and we are bringing an agency that will measure it. So why are you opposing it? The answer is: Do not think, first of all, that you are making any terrible reform. An anonymous company is recommending that you put into its targeting what the literature has been saying for twenty years. The literature on health policies has said that on several occasions, it includes the strategic plan that the WHO has prepared in cooperation with the previous government and that you have unexploited. You build an anonymous company and you specify in its articles the role of president, CEO, how the members of the board of directors are appointed, the company's statute and that's all. This is considered to be the reform that ensures quality? With what data, what strategic information is and how to work together to have the data so that it can effectively control, make targeted interventions, evaluate data, see if the indicators that need to be monitored are respected, etc.Huh? What is the relationship between "PIOPY S.A." and the services of the Ministry? You haven't determined that either. What's the connection to the individual electronic file? These are the critical details that will determine whether this thing will have a chance of producing something or whether it will be a bureaucratic structure, it will be confusing there, some people will be appointed and you will strengthen your client state and, in essence, nothing will arise unless - and that is, of course - that is our basic disagreement - that is a tool to involve the PPP in favour of the private sector and the market at the expense of public structures. That is where we find our criticism. We believe that it is in a sense that it abuses the necessary approach to assessing the quality of the services provided. The critical conditions, we have also told the committees, to talk about quality rather than just indicators, criteria, rates and data, are obviously the adequacy of staff, staffing and, indeed, high-trained, with continuing human resources training, infrastructure and equipment, financing, working climate and environment, culture of administration and organisation, social control, public accountability, the role of patients. These are the critical criteria that determine quality. And, of course, these are purely political functions which cannot be substituted for, they are the responsibility and competence of the Ministry of Health and not of an anonymous company. So our difference in that is. We therefore disagree because, in our view, this bill is strategically serving your neoliberal plan, which is now slowly going on after the pandemic, which had begun to retreat a little, and had suffered a crack on your market record and public-private partnerships, now bring back with a regulation aimed at this very point. That is our difference, and that is why, of course, we are voting against the bill. My colleague made a reference to expenditure. The answer, my dear colleague, is this. We measurablely reduced health inequalities in the country. There's ELSTAT's data. There is an excellent indicator, called the rate of unsatisfactory medical needs in the population as a whole, this indicator in the years of the crisis has escalated. From 4% of the population went to 14.5% and then retreated four units, i.e. lowering health poverty in the country. That was, therefore, the main objective of our policy in the previous period, the survival of the health system, its universal access and therefore the reduction of inequalities. And let me say that this is at the core of a left-wing and progressive political plan, because the Left has as its central project, to reduce inequalities and to ensure social, economic, political equality in modern societies. We, therefore, shielded the public health system and found it by the pandemic having accepted an important intervention in addition to facilitating free access. I hear the Minister and he says many times: "EVO that his people, his scientists, and so on." My dear Minister, who took the disgraceful and unscrupulous CEDEFOP and cleaned it up in operation and did an institutional reorganisation of importance and called it EGEH and restored the scientific authority and credibility of its people and especially of the excellent scientists, who today in the pandemic have proved their value and role? What have you guys been doing at this time? Did you further strengthen the ETA? Let me get this straight. Here there are correspondence from your Secretary-General of Public Health, who is addressed to the President of the EGE and says: "Explain why you hired a hundred non-health workers at this time and what role exactly will they play". So ETH was reorganized and was able at this stage to play the role that the state had played and had given him to protect public health and prevent communicable diseases. You are also saying that you have hired thousands of workers in the health system within a very short time. Firstly, this has happened a lot before in our own governance. Within a few days, if I remember correctly, in a week or two in February 2016, we've taken massively four thousand sanitaries, other than doctors, nurses, paramedics, other personnel with this program through the OAED, which you extended the contract and we'll see how it will evolve from now on. And also, most importantly, you have found a ready mechanism to be able to make these necessary contractors' recruitments at this time. At first you told us that you were going to make three months and four months of contracts. Did you forget that? Then you realized that here it is serious that no one will be found to come to the top of the pandemic falling into the fire for such a short time. We have proposed to you - and to your credit you have accepted it - that you take advantage of the transparent lists of subsidiary doctors and other subsidiary staff and the mechanism that we had set up by health region and industry. And that's where you were able to recruit these four, five - the numbers have now been increased lately, and we haven't seen their distribution - which you say you've made contractors. Not to say now about the emergency departments, which are indeed there the first line of defense and which targeted more than three hundred specialist doctors have already been recruited and have played an important role in management and pandemic, better selection of incidents, etc. The same applies to intensive care units, primary care and the new structures that have been created and all of this. So - and I am closing with this, Mr President - now that pandemic shows its teeth again, I think that what is needed is an integrated, simple intervention to strengthen and upgrade the public health system, of course, to assess its services in a measurable manner, with indicators so as to improve the benefits to citizens in the long term, convergence with the average European conditions, to exploit the improved financial margins currently available due to European funding and because of the relaxation of the budgetary pact, but also because of the lack of compliance with the objective of the primary surpluses this year, etc. These are the major projects and not the legalisation of an anonymous company that has as its core the mandatory assessment and control of the public sector and the voluntary evaluation and control of the private sector. I think you couldn't arrest a more market-based and neoliberal piece of legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u19	The special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Poulas, is now called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, because in the last few days there has been a lot of talk about the question of assessing and upgrading health services for citizens on the occasion of the debate on this bill, I would like today from the Stepping of the House to clarify some things. I would like to make it clear that the Change Movement is undeniably in favour of the evaluation of services, public and private, which has proved far-reaching in the past, when it was the PASOK that established the evaluation mechanisms, which are currently a consciousness and acquis of the Greek people and ensure the integrity, reliability and transparency of all those mechanisms on which the Greek state is founded and which are undoubtedly serving the public interest. However, our positive political attitude toward the self-evident principle of objective evaluation is not a 'Silloam squatter' for the government, it does not give forgiveness and does not constitute a white cheque. You cannot come here today, under the pretext of evaluating and allegedly upgrading health services, such as communication, trying to get through to the citizens, legislate on an invention, such as the PPPY, with institutional frameworks and responsibilities of dubious utility and feasibility. Because that's what this is about. This is an agency that actually comes to implement your plan, your secret agenda that is gradually being presented to Parliament, to promote specific policies towards privatising public health. Without a doubt, the need to tackle the COVID pandemic -19 has shown that a modern Western society cannot have a strong public health system. The act has also shown that the private health system can be complementary and complementary to the public, which we have to support and maintain is valid and strong, as our Constitution and European treaties stress. If your purpose is to improve existing structures and upgrade the ESS, I guess this bill is in a completely wrong direction. Point 1: The evaluation first prescribes that the system failures have first been detected, recorded and mapped, then covered and finally evaluated. You are, on the one hand, slightly beyond your heart, the first and second, and you are going to the final stage, and on the other hand you are trying to cover up your own political responsibilities. For example, you are the ones who place in governors' positions in hospitals adorable and party friends. You are the ones who continue to under-finance public health. We've reached 4.7%. You are the ones who also follow the bad practices of the past, you have simulated the tactics of travel from health centers to hospitals and vice versa in order to fill gaps in health personnel. In fact, you are doing so in this bill with Article 22. You are the ones who, while announcing recruitment of permanent staff, are the ones running with our dropping point and hospitals still operate with much less staff than their internal bodies, where they exist. You are the ones who are wasting resources in questioned need for anonymous companies, such as the FDI, instead of financing primary health care, for example, that you also incorporate in the evaluation without even having created it. It is you who, instead of integrating the health workers into heavy and unhealthy, as has already been requested three times by the Change Movement, have confined yourself to an allowance and to a lot of applause. Therefore, your assessment starts from a completely wrong starting point, leading mathematically to depreciation of public health providers. Point 2: While for public bodies the evaluation is compulsory, it is fully voluntary and is possible with the self-advised application to the PPP. As the Scientific Committee of the Parliament has pointed out, the unequal treatment of the public and private sectors in the case of the compulsory or non-existent nature of the evaluation is unacceptable, because both protect the same public goods, health and human life. Apart from the fact that the self-exemption of private health providers constitutes an unjustified preferential treatment, it also constitutes a subsidy to the public sector. At a time when the public will be assessed on strict and inequality terms in relation to the private sector, the latter will be left uncontrolled and unconscious. After all, there are a number of examples of private health providers who have problems either with the operation of either infrastructure or with respect to labour legislation or speculation and overvaluation of the services provided or even the protection of public health. So, is everything well-built in the private sector? The possibility that you provide the private sector with the self-exemption of evaluation could lead to a misunderstanding of patients about the quality of the services provided. Most importantly, however, it leads, over time, to two-speed patients, maintaining class, social and economic discrimination, which we must combat as a favoured state. Thus, the maintenance of the separation of treatment between the public and private sectors undermines the PPP project since its establishment. Point 3: You choose as a vehicle for the assessment of health services a public limited company and you grant it public authority to impose sanctions appropriate to an administrative body. You finance it with 3m euros, without attaching to the draft relevant economic report or sustainability report, in order to know where this money will be directed and you allow it to work as a mediator in the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and in particular to manage the money directed towards implementing Project VII on infections. In principle, the use of public limited companies, adopted by the SYRIZA Government, is a questionable credibility and useful tactics in the management of public power. This is because, with its adoption, you confess that you do not trust the public sector, that you do not trust people who support the construction of the public administration. You effectively demand the experienced and conscientious employees of your Ministry, considering them impliedly unable to define a national evaluation framework based on international standards, record the shortcomings of existing health structures and carry out their evaluation. However, if the state itself cannot assess and exploit its human resources, it is a preliminary failure. And this bill is a confession of this failure, despite the opposite of what is said about the success of your state of service. In addition to the valuation, however, you are transferring public authority to the PPP, while it is not a public undertaking, but a purely profitable, commercial company, with contributions and fees from the implementation of the evaluations, with a budget, balance sheet, board of directors and general assembly. Since the responsibilities and objectives of the FPI could be served through a new Health Ministry's Directorate, without demanding financing of EUR 3 million from the already budgetaryly strict state budget, we wonder why this multi-stakeholder and controversial scheme is being chosen. This anonymous company is described as a representative of the Ministry to provide public services, without ensuring that there is also the necessary guarantees of credibility, transparency and lawfulness in the services it will provide. In other words, instead of the Greek State controlling and evaluating the private sector, it grants it public authority and powers substantially, replacing it without guaranteeing independence and credibility, without there being any insurance barriers and without any control. Point 4: The mode of staffing and administration of the PPP is problematic. On the one hand, they are not specifically defined with clear criteria for the selection of members of the Management Board and its Director. Apart from obtaining the postgraduate qualification, no specific criterion exists. Although there are the criteria laid down in the a.d.50/2001 for selecting special scientific staff, you ignore it by giving the impression that these positions are intended again for good persons. On the other hand, the operational part of the PPP is not defined, leaving much flexibility to the choice of its staff. You propose recruitment with private-law contracts for regular staff on non-ACP terms, as you have done in the establishment of the staff member, while the PPP will also recruit temporary staff from external evaluators who are unknown to which criteria will be defined and included in the relevant register. Consequently, even the internal functioning of the PPP seems to have been made at the foot, whether intentionally so blurred as to be part of the logic of the arrangements, arrangements and the 'days' velocity, such as the EOF article, which ensures favourable treatment for the president and vice president, allowing them to be employed outside the organization, while their positions should be full and exclusive employment in the Agency. Ladies and gentlemen, the state's fair response to the work of the ESS, which you were applauding a few months ago, is not what is being done in this bill. This prestigious National Health System without primary health care, with great shortages in human resources, infrastructure, equipment and poorly paid workers unilaterally and with credibility the burden of public health. Before assessing, you need to raise your sleeves, make those necessary areas that we have been asking you for, recruit, administrative and operational reforms in hospitals, right and isomers in all hospitals for the use of donations for modern equipment and building infrastructures, promote administrations at hospitals via ASP, function institutions such as complaint offices in hospitals and continuous evaluation of all, but in terms of justice, transparency, reliability and equivalence, evaluation based on fair and objective criteria and not idols for display. In any case, the evaluation could be a much more transparent, reliable and integrated process that would cost the Greek State cheaper and would not have the logic of "blocking", fragmentation and communication management for external good witnessing, but without real reflection. Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement cannot consent to a legislative initiative that leads to depreciation and perhaps suspension of the operation of public health structures. We do not accept the waste of 3m euros for the creation of another anonymous company, instead of making it available to upgrade the polypathic national health system. We do not accept the use of public limited companies as intermediaries for the execution of donations of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation by wasting money without guarantees of credibility and transparency. We do not accept the maintenance of regular party settlements in PPP board and CEO positions. We do not accept a pretext and selective assessment between public and private health bodies. We do not accept that the PPP will not be controlled by any body of the Ministry of Health for its good operation. We do not accept the granting of public power to a public limited company, which has a capital gain and not a public benefit. We do not accept secret agendas for private sector premiums instead of public health, and gradually throughout the public sector. Under these conditions, therefore, which are included in this legislation, the Change Movement cannot consent and will vote against the bill at the outset. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u21	Then I will give the floor to the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Lambroulis. Ladies and gentlemen, until the Step is ready, I would like to inform you of a sad fact. Today Vera Nikolaidou, a former member of the Communist Party of Greece, was forgiven, who also served as Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Lambroulis will make a reference to this. Just to interpret the feelings of the Parliament and of the President of the Parliament, to convey the condolences to the Communist Party of Greece and to the family of the deportation. That was our obligation, Mr. Lambroulis. Of course, you can do as long as you want, make a petition about the beggar. Here, then, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u22	Indeed, in that direction and before the bill begins, I would like to make a brief reference to what you have just said, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Comrade Vera Nikolaidou left today after a battle with the incurable disease. For many years he has been a member of our party's Central Committee. He had been elected a member of our party in Piraeus on several occasions and was Vice-President of the Parliament. From a small place he took part in the movement and struggles of our people for a better world, to get rid of the blockages of barbarity and exploitation. He was mayor of Nice and from this position he fought for the interests of ordinary people, the people of fighting, while in recent years he has devoted himself to the anti-war movement against imperialist interventions and wars that scatter horror among the peoples. We will always remember her for her great sensitivity and her readiness to fight until the last minute for the problems of ordinary people. We shall now proceed to the debate on the bill. As we have said in committee, the establishment of the public limited liability company will be a tool, a mechanism for speeding up the unpopular restructuring in health to promote and implement the tens of laws of today's and previous governments which, as a whole, serve to further privatise and market the functioning of public health structures. This is clearly a measure of escalating the attack on the health of the people, with the government taking advantage of and deepening the anti-grassroots work of the previous SYRIZA government, as well as all the previous governments who prepared the ground. Their aim is to harmonise public health establishments with market laws, deepen the marketing of their services and to give them more and more time over the cost of financing for their capital and state. It is precisely in this environment of competition based on the laws of the private market - and once public - hospitals, the role of the state obviously cannot be the design of services provided to meet modern popular needs in prevention, primary health care, respectively, at all levels of secondary, tertiary, welfare, etc. It is evolving on the basis of market laws to a regulator of competition, rules, up to insurance prices and others. It is therefore the natural continuity and consistency of the policy of liberal, neoliberal, social-democratic, supposedly left-wing governments, since they jointly support the reduction of state spending on health, the sale of the work of public hospitals to patients and the insurance funds, in order to have revenue to operate. Thus, any controversy has been expressed in the committee as well, apart from serving the disorientation of the people from the essence of this policy, is actually limited to the way in which these anti-Fraud objectives will serve exactly. Irrespective of any individual disagreements expressed by all the parties, what all the other parties agree, together with the government, which, of course, you have as a sacred 'good' all of you, are the anti-grassroots directions of the European Union which you have successively implemented, those parties that govern and govern, and the European Union's health strategy. This is a strategy based on ensuring so-called sustainable and efficient health systems through the rapid reduction of state funding for state health establishments and strengthening their operation on business terms. A strategy that promotes further development of the health sector through the so-called extroversion of the health system, i.e. strengthening business activity in the sector. A strategy aimed at alleviating health inequalities through the state provision of minimum services, i.e. limiting those granted free of charge by the State at the level of the minimum basic package, at the least naturally possible state costs. On the basis of these guidelines, the health systems of the other European countries, which are also the example of which the draft law invokes and for which equivalent technocrats will also come to contribute to the implementation of the draft law. However, the example of pandemic and how health systems in fragile countries collapsed are very fresh in our memory. Multi-advertised advanced health systems have proved to be clay-footed in terms of staffing, equipment and the development of public health units. Because pandemic has highlighted the deep anti-grassroots classic content of the European Union's strategy on health. At the same time, it highlighted the inherent weakness of the capitalist organization of the economy and society to exploit the enormous potential of scientific knowledge of the numerous scientific resources and technical means to prevent, treat respectively and treat the health of the people by turning public health systems into one disease, leaving hundreds of thousands of chronic patients exposed to almost every care. Such a health system is evangelised by the New Democracy Government, like the previous ones, because, even if you wish, you could not stray from the Euro-Union principle that people's health is a commodity and cost for the needs of capitalist growth, competitiveness and the profitability of business groups. And based on the achievement of these criteria and objectives, capital assesses governments, not only in Greece but also in the European Union, of course. In this context, the establishment of "PIOPY S.A." as a tool in the hands of the Government to promote all the anti-grassroots directions and measures, despite the fineness of its role of improving the quality of health services, will enhance patient safety and go by saying. Thus, for example, good administration and proper management of the resources mentioned in the bill refers to the objective of keeping the rate of budgetary overrun low. This practically leads to a stricter adjustment to the data of sub-financing that reproduces and reproduces the present disparate situation of hospital shortages, eliminating staff and afflicting patients, while creating the ground for further privatisation of the system and with the people putting their hand deeper and deeper in the pocket. Thus, while the State is increasingly withdrawing from the financing of hospitals and even the elementary ones, it sets out the conditions for any overrun in the budget to be punishable for health and patients, while at the same time rewarding the administrations that run decisively and successfully, the plans to find resources from other sources, in other words, implementing the policy of trade. Instead of the public health system adapting to popular needs, it is precisely the opposite. Needs shall be adapted to the degraded public health system. This is exactly what we have said, namely that it is a question of defining irrationalism in political and scientific thought. Therefore, the assessment of health units is not carried out in terms of strengthening them by the state, in order to meet the modern and growing popular health needs, but how they will be compressed to the limits of the anti-grass budgetary targets and, at the same time, to establish individual responsibility for an increasing part of their health needs. Thus, the bill stipulates the bodies controlled by "PIOPY S.A.", health and welfare units and others that belong to the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. In other words, there are all those structures in need of increased funding, abolition of private-sector working, staffing with all the necessary full-time and permanent staff. Because if these conditions are implemented, we can only talk about assessing units on the basis of whether they meet the needs of our people, our people, who are the only criterion for us and not on the basis of the principle of cost - benefit, which has always been, and will always be, the health of the people. So while the bill mentions, for example, the safety of patients, nowhere mentions the recruitment of all necessary personnel to health establishments, the modernisation of their equipment, the supply of the necessary medical equipment and others which are the main causes of not only suffering to patients and health care, but also the causes that endanger the health of patients and health. Similarly, efficiency as mentioned in the bill and the response of public health structures - i.e. as benchmarks - may sound good in the ears of the people, but they are words deep enlightened in the sense of marketing the health system and its functioning as an enterprise. Besides, that's how it works. And here is a characteristic example of the recent manifestation of the pandemic that the government won in order to make the health system more efficient. It has exploited it to make a few hirings of workers who will not cost it much and have managed the entire health system - primary care, hospitals and so on - to respond only to COVID -19. This is the urban perception of correspondence and of an ambulance approach mentioned by both the rapporteur and the bill by the Minister, but it leaves hundreds of thousands of patients exposed and in full individual responsibility, excluded from almost any care or the patient's accessibility of health units, which is linked to the financially tolerated services, that is to say, given that they will pay for them. Accordingly, the management of economic and human resources to ensure the so-called sustainability of health units means that the economic element is fully held up against the element of the people's needs. This will depend on and depend on the development and support of clinical and laboratory laboratories, depending on how profitable it will be, because it is not, as mentioned, economically viable although necessary or necessary in an area. As for the other criteria that you refer to in the bill that will be concluded and, of course, they apply to hospitals from other European Union countries, such as the fullness of beds, the number of beds in the ICUs, the times of hospitalization, delays in the issuing of bills, the application of medical protocols and others, and so on, they entail tragic consequences for patients and health. It is no exaggeration to say that the staff of public hospitals will be with the pistol on the head and will be served in accounting for the treatments and rehabilitation of patients so that they do not exceed the drastically reduced budget. The so-called ‘bloody’ values, as known in the European States where evaluation systems are already in place, will be given, with patients ending their hospitalisation before their time in order not to exceed the projected costs. For those units where demand will not be efficient, as reported, and profitable, they will close beds, clinics, parts. At the same time - at the same time - the therapeutic protocols will be generalized as instruments for the enforcement and control of barbaric cuts. And all of this will also be a criterion for the performance of health workers even to maintain their jobs or work. It will be the application of the unscientific "cutter" to medical operations, hospitalization, treatments, medications, etc. In other words, the right to work, to health in this regard, will also depend on whether each worker promotes the objectives set by the State for reductions in health, namely whether he is willingly and consistently serving the policy of attracting businesses - finances and patients -. Thus, in essence, the prediction that those hospitals are evaluated as exceptional to show up in reference hospitals will be rewarded by strengthening a section's budget or human resources. objectively, therefore, this direction will lead to the graduation of hospitals, in an informal, that is, a list of 'good' and 'bad', where the 'excellent' will be those that are adapted to the needs of the market and are effectively intertwined with large private enterprises. Publication of the results of the evaluation means, in practical terms, that the market will gain access to useful information on its performance and on this basis it will choose future partnerships and cooperation, of course, with unreasonable, and with painful consequences for workers and patients. It is clear, therefore, that the aim of the evaluation, through the creation of the public limited company PPP, is not to address the acute problems in the public health system to provide upgraded and free services to all patients and to ensure decent full-time relationships for all workers in hospitals. On the other hand, by establishing criteria and with the highest criterion the cost - not only will there be no improvement in the present dreadful situation, but assessment will have new, serious consequences for the health and pocket of patients, while at the same time it will bring about a new blow to working conditions, labour relations and the rights of health workers. It is therefore confirmed, with this bill, that while today there is a rapid development of science, technology with a large number of specialized scientific resources, which could serve to defend the health of the people and, of course, to satisfy the growing public needs in the health, welfare and health sector, respectively, the potential is crushed on the minds of this economy, the capitalist economy, which all of you serve in one way or another, where people's health does not "serve" only costs, which must be continuously limited, but also a field of investment in capital for the exploitation of people's needs in order to increase their profitability. This is why the organisation of the People's Fight against Health Trade and the struggle to increase the state funding for full-time and full-time recruitment, as well as for the development and equipment of public health units based on popular needs, are objectively linked to the struggle for deeper changes in society and the economy, with the prospect of the other development path that will ensure a modern, exclusively state and free health system by abolishing all business activities. That's why the JRC is voting against the bill. At the same time, we are calling on them to fight against the government's anti-grass plans, to strengthen the fight to increase the funding of hospitals and, more generally, health, for exclusively public and free services to the extent of modern needs. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, as the President of Parliament had announced, we will now be interrupting for ten minutes because the President's Office will sign the agreement to grant Parliament's donation for the establishment of the three intensive care units at the Hospital's "SITRIA".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. The reason is the special speaker of the Greek Solution Mrs Maria Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. The draft is under way to improve the quality of health in the wider public sector. In order to achieve this project, however, we must both address the individual issues relating to the world and the strategy on the part of the state and state to be realistic and, above all, honest. Reorganisation of the National Health System is a prerequisite in order to truly ensure quality of health. As a Greek Solution, we are constantly stressing and shouting that safeguarding public health is the highest good of every human being and that every Greek citizen must be given free of charge, because that is the only way that we can be regarded as the rule of law. Education and health are the mirror of each organised and modern state. Let us go a little further into the analysis of a number of controversial articles which, in our view, require immediate change and do not comply with the real improvement in public health. As regards Article 1 of this bill, there is a strong doubt that what is described will be achieved by establishing an anonymous company which will obviously have unprecedented powers in the health sector. There are deep issues of legality. In addition, the phrase relating to ‘universal population’ is indicated. So will illegal immigrants be given priority over the Greeks? Incomprehensible things! When thousands of Greeks are homeless and are in danger of losing their home from the banks, do you come and prioritise every illegal immigrant? We call on you to immediately withdraw this phrase on the universal population. In Article 2 of this bill, there is no mention of whether military hospitals will also be subject to evaluation. Also, why is university hospitals out of the scope of assessment? Did it be because doctors of these categories can peculiarize, so, in your general understanding, they are considered to be highly evaluated at first instance, in which case they do not need to be checked? That explains a lot. You are extending the distinction between multi-speed doctors now and hospitals. But tell us what criteria will be applied to the quality assessment of the EHS of the Lecade hospitals in which university clinics are hosted, although hosted, much more spaces than the clinics themselves, thus maintaining the perception that the university is a state in which it holds, with the teachers each having their private space in the public hospital, while even in the middle of the Krone Directors and curators of the ERC are confronted in a small office. How exactly will you assess them if you do not have a clear separation of hospitals into purely university and purely ESS hospitals? In addition, how will quality be ensured when all hospitals do not fall within the Ministry of Health but do we have, for example, universities under the Ministry of Education or the IKA at the Ministry of Labour? Furthermore, an important omission to this draft law is that it does not include all the structures of the Ministry of Health. Why? In what sense can health quality work separatingly? Because they are not part of the evaluation by the EEAS, the OKANA, the EAFRD. In particular for entities such as EVO, which process, which manage national data, it is absolutely necessary to ensure the quality of their statistics. In addition, it is worth noting that there are sections in many hospitals which are not organised, with the result that, although there are the corresponding specialists, they are employed in other administrative posts. It would be a first-class opportunity to reorganise the departments. In Article 3, it is worth noting that the competent bodies referred to in Article 109 of Law No 4622/2019, as referred to in paragraph 2, are the Heads of Directorates-General and the Minister, on a case-by-case basis. In Article 4, we do not believe that the recommendation of the PPP will solve the problem of the public health of our Greek fellow citizens. As we have already said in the relevant committees, it is more likely that the blue children will be at the forefront of it. It is characterized as the health ministry's aid in trying to improve the level of safety of health services. In short, it is provided by a legal person to a partner with the Ministry of Health, which raises questions. What is now required is immediate restructuring of the health sector and reconstruction of the operation of the ERC so that health becomes a social asset which is accessible to all. The measures to be taken must take into account two parameters, in particular the part of the state budget which can be allocated to health and the minimisation of private health benefits. With regard to Article 5, why create a public limited liability company to do the work of the Ministry? The evaluation criteria, protocols and quality standards must obviously be in line with the planning and organisation priorities of the ESS, implemented at Ministry level, regional health addresses and specialised in cooperation with health units. Why are the missions and purposes of "PESY S.A." cannot be served by the services of the Ministry of Health? Why should the assessment and imposition of sanctions or the adoption of an opinion on sanctions not be carried out by public control mechanisms? It is possible to create issues of legality by conferring such powers - the granting of public authority - to a public limited company. In addition, it does not specify who experts will be. Will they be doctors, managers, economists or other specialists? How will they be selected and with which guarantees and criteria? Unfortunately, in this article, on the one hand, attempts to give jobs and, by extension, money to people in the government and, on the other hand, on the other hand, on an even deeper level, to undermine public health and to strengthen the private sector. Quality is not a punishment but an opportunity for improvement. Let us not denounce the national bodies for quality, which without any state aid are fighting for quality in Greece. Articles 6 and 7 describe the evaluation process and its stages in order to avoid the phenomena of the evaluation on the basis of different criteria depending on the type of provider - public or private sector - both in the process of developing procedures and standards and in the process of controls, expert steps are required to be composed of representatives of all operators who are most fully informed of the institutional framework of operation of the provider concerned. In areas which are underfinanced, they will necessarily have a lower quality or even a lack of ability to achieve the objectives set by the committee in relation to areas that are over-financed or financed fairly. Also, units of the same sector receiving greater funding will have better quality and therefore access to the rewards. In conclusion, only quality control in the light and the funding concerned can lead to a proper assessment of the functioning of a sector or unit and, subsequently, to proposals for improving it. The committee's competence should therefore be extended to submit proposals for the proper allocation of funds in sectors and in health units. In addition, paragraph 1 of the Article states that all service providers are subject to the assessment of ‘WIPO S.A.’ and are potential for private providers. This separation is unauthorised and only works in favour of individuals. This will result, due to the underfunding of public health bodies, any assessment to be at the expense of the public and the private centres will receive most positive comments. In short, there will be no healthy competition. In addition, what about the certifications that many private clinics already have? How will hospitals be judged, clinically different possibilities, such as, for example, the hospitals of Athens compared to those of the islands? In Article 9, unfortunately, there is what is likely to be concealed in this draft law: trying to undermine public health. Low evaluations have a great potential to pave the way for the government's plan, which is to privatise health. The big issue is building public confidence with hospitals in their area, checking and justifying all crossings from the region to large urban centres. As a Greek Solution, we demand greater access to funds for aid - first - and staffing to medical, nursing and paramedical staff, with the possibility of a direct contract in full relevance to the work for which they are distinguished. Secondly, support with additional posts of specialist doctors. Thirdly, a personal financial reward for the involved servants of all specialty and industry as an incentive for efficiency. Of course, interconnection - financing with performance - we hope it does not work under the clientele system, and that is why special attention is needed on this issue. In Articles 10 and 11, there is talk of the imposition of administrative measures and sanctions. Obviously, the vast majority of public health systems will be penalised, since they are tragic, of course, under the responsibility of the state. All this, of course, will directly affect citizens, i.e. state omissions, sanctions will be imposed on public health structures and the people will pay them. Unbelievable regulation of the legislator! We also note in paragraph 4 that the Board of Directors of "PIPO S.A." can impose sanctions on public bodies, which raises issues of legality, while in paragraph 5 we find that not just an anonymous company acquires public power and indeed in the form of sanctions, it also has distinct power. Only an opinionary role can an anonymous company have. It is not appropriate to impose sanctions and its decisions to be effective as administrative acts. In addition, the suspension of enforcement is the highest right of a fair trial until the action is finalised. That cannot be the case. In Article 13, it describes in essence that the managers' selection will be carried out by unseen procedures, since there will be no single salary, which seems to be defined by the Board itself, which reinforces our suspicions of the "blue" children. Because there it will certainly be more flexible than public services in its staff, since it will not be bound by state officials. However, if the public sector fails, it is not the civil servants who are to blame, but the political leadership in question. As the party carpets are chosen, anxiecity, the unpaid and competent civil servant, so the malfunction will increase and perpetuate. Article 14 describes cooperation with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. In other words, an anonymous company is being set up to cooperate with the NGO "Norarch", which has already been the case with the State under a donation contract. Is the PPPY created precisely for this purpose, that is, as the body that handles private health interventions? Something suspicious, I guess, is happening here. Article 15 describes cooperation and programming agreements at national level with non-profit organisations, such as university bodies. However, it does not refer to any point if there is an economic object in these contracts, and if, of course, they will be governed by public procurement law. As regards Article 16, since Article 5(1) states that the total shares of the company are to the Greek State, which, for the exercise of its share rights, is represented by the Minister for Health, what is the meaning of the reference to a general meeting? In general, with regard to Article 5(1), the idea of setting up a public limited company with such important responsibilities and conferring public powers opens up a window for its future exploitation by individuals, even though there is provision for a non-transfer of shares, since this provision can be changed in the future. In Article 19, we need to be particularly careful, because the movement of staff must not leave gaps in other hospital structures, which are already struggling with major gaps in carrying out their task, which is to ensure the health of citizens. There are thousands of reports of subsistence of hospital structures, especially in border areas and remote areas. There is a great doubt as to whether the competent authorities will manage the matter correctly, without leaving any gaps to other health bodies. As a Greek Solution, we ask you to pay special attention to it, because the remote areas in particular cannot lose a single hospital executive. Immediately recruit. The NSA is already underage. We are still waiting for you to increase the hospital staff, as you promised from March. Finally, Article 24 gives the Minister for Health superpowers to complete the drafting of this draft law. But the political parties are hostages of the Minister's attitudes. This prevents the interparliamentary debate between the political parties. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is signed by eight Ministers and everyone is involved in the protection and prevention of public health, but also by the entire government and the Greek Parliament. For this reason, protect the Greeks from the consequences of the memoranda, from the banks, from illegal immigrants, from unemployment, from labour exploitation, from poor public health. It's all our debt. In principle, we are voting 'no'. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u26	The special employer of Mera25, Mrs. Apatzidis, has the floor. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, will then speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we regret that we are in a position to say this, but we have here to deal with another bill which looks like the most awkward implementation of the most strange ideas and, indeed, in the midst of a deeper crisis, for a health and soon, economic and budgetary principle. We would like to avoid clichés such as 'learned magicians' and 'the perfect crime'. It is impossible, however, because this is precisely what this is all about. The central idea of the bill, as we approach it, is as follows. A public health service provider is built up to assess the priority of the public health service providers by private experts. If private health service providers are requested, although only, then they can be evaluated. In other words, after decades of underfunding, degradation and eventually, in particular in the last 10 years, the destruction of the National Health System and in the middle of promises of radical reconstruction, which remain at the level of the announcements and are not being implemented, in the middle of a health crisis that demonstrates before all the necessity of a robust public health system, in the midst of all, the government instead of correcting it, rather than setting it up at the level that is absolutely necessary, is urging it to be undermined by private experts, in order to take a politically ideological view and thus cause, on the contrary, an objective and excellent assessment, the further shift of the public health good - which is protected by the Constitution - from the public sector in the private sector. Shall we say this clearly? Instead of shielding the public health system and ensuring access to quality health services, as with an outrageous euphemism, the bill gives the ultimate blow, bringing the individual to assess the fruits of the government's omissions as reflected in the current state of the public health system as incomplete and inadequate. Inevitable conclusion of this blackmailed assessment is that the private sector's head start on access to quality health services. All that prevented them even a drop of substantiated constitutional patriotism, i.e. before all the consciousness that the provisions of the Constitution are not decorative. Here I am referring specifically to the very clear mandate of the Constitution on public health, according to which the State ensures that citizens' health, Article 21 of the Constitution. It is for the start a constitutional patriotism before any ideological position that would force the withdrawal or even the vote of the Collapsing of this draft law. In the tenth article, for example, the essence of your political choice is hidden. We read in the first paragraph: if infringements have been detected, the number and seriousness of which lead to a direct risk to the safety and life of patients, the Board of Directors of the PPP shall recommend to the competent body of the Ministry of Health the immediate suspension of operation for a period of one year or the withdrawal of its authorisation. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] I ask you, will the artificially deviated by the Memorandum Governments of Public Hospitals and Public Health Structures have the fate of suspending their departments and clinics, or will you simply proceed to the sanctions described in paragraph 4 of that Article, that is to say, can they be imposed by a decision of the Board of Directors of the IPPC and the sanctions for the cessation of access to quality services, for new research programmes and for the suspension of new clinical trials and the opening of new sections of clinical trials up to twelve months? Penalties which also constitute further depreciation of public health anyway. We read in Article 12 that in the funds of the public limited company you are recommending to assess health, which will cost 2 million euros to the people, you institutionalise private donations as a key resource for the PPP. Point (b) of the Article shall refer to as resources the donations, inheritances, legacies, contributions and grants from third parties and revenue from any kind of activity or income from its movable and immovable property. You strongly introduce the presence of the private sector into an organisation which has the management, in some ways, the right to close, finance or suspend clinical public hospitals and structures. At the same time, it says that the agency will be paid for the services it will provide to public and private bodies. That is to make it clear: The assessor will be paid by the assessors for the evaluation process! This raises a huge issue. How will it be ensured that the private businessman does not enter into a transaction with the managers of the PPP before receiving an excellent assessment? Further to Article 13: the staff of the Agency shall follow, in respect of the employment relationship, the market framework of public limited companies, full-time or part-time private law contracts, regular or even exceptional positions. This staff will sometimes be recruited under the standing procedures for you, where the interview counts more than all other formal qualifications and at times through the legal path of the AACC, but without specifying when one will apply and when the other. Of course, vagueness, as it gives the possibility of a salt card moves. Of course, in Article 14, we have the presence of great benefactors in public health. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have a question. Is the PPP is created precisely for this purpose as a body to handle private health interventions? Let me stress this. We are not opposed to this, but we want it to be only a subsidiary of the state. It is the state's mission to provide health to the citizens, it is constitutionally guaranteed, I repeat. To conclude, this is an anti-constitutional piece of legislation of violent privatisation, which trades health under the cloak of evaluation that shields quality. This is a disaster with clothing to ensure access to quality health services. The bill must be voted down by everyone. Members of the Couple have the basis of respect for the country's Constitution, they must vote against it themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, my colleague. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, has asked for the floor. Mr. President, come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to begin by addressing what the government is doing, so to speak, with an expression of the people,'shoots', haste. This is illustrated by the pace of the bills that have brought about over the last few days and by the mood to discuss. Unfortunately, this democracy gives us opportunities to behave arrogantly, many times, and authoritarianly and to violate the same logic. You've brought in infinite bills. Especially in health have come about seven or eight for a year. I don't understand why you have to bring seven or eight bills in one year. I'm not talking about taxation. I am speaking in general terms of the logic of all parties. You do, he says, the PPP, the Health Resources Management Agency! Yes, sir! You know, it's good for our fantasy or our dream system to exist and function. In your mind you have a fantasy, Minister, a fantasy that you want to do. You and SYRIZA and PASOK have been ruling for decades. SYRIZA ruled five years by force. But the rest of you have been ruling forty-five years. And the public health system dies, you've died, neither does the primary work nor the ICUs really work. We ran the coronary to do more IF. Why? Because it's just not missing the words, it's gone. In words too, the New Democracy of one year that I am watching is very good. The system has been stuck for too many decades. Babe, IDU says to the Department of Health. Brother Niarchus at the Ministry of Health. Is nothing wrong with the Department of Health? Do you want arrows all the time? Do you want columns, aid in operating the Ministry of Health? I don't get it! Change the name. It doesn't have to be called a National Health System, my Minister. Minister, do not call it a National Health System because you can do so a National Training Foundation. National Health System, National Training Foundation "North"! It's over! I do not understand this love with the "North", this hug, this involvement with the "North". Of course, by going to the Nightmare Foundation, I saw that 80% of the employees are a New Democracy. I knew them. Some "SKAI", former journalists, on the board of directors. Your own people, your children. But, you know, this strange attitude bothers me. Because when the state entrusts public health to non-governmental organisations and public limited companies, it means that the state cannot. If you can't, close the Ministry of Health, and entrust it to the private initiative to finish. Now let's go to the argument. Why does Niarchus have special love with the health system? I'm asking the government to tell me here. My Minister, can you tell me why Niarchus has special love for the health system? Because he doesn't make a donation for our defense. Say that it gives 10 million euros, 20 million euros, 50 million euros in the country's defence, which we need anyway? I'm talking about a specific sponsorship. It doesn't. He only deals with health. But that's not all. I will prove to you what scandals you have been legislating in a moment and how you continue with them. The PRAKSIS NGO, the refugee's well-known ‘PRAKSIS’, is the ‘Narchy’ Foundation based in Liechtenstein. Not to tell the black money how it goes and where it goes. People aren't taxed. Unfortunately, this government since 2009 has been suffering from a ‘marcharchy’. You have a disease with the "Norarch". If the health system can't cure it, find out how. You did in 2009 the Library centre of culture, the one Niarchos did down there in the Old Faliro, except that it was an archaeological site and you devastated it, in order not to be fooled, it was an archaeological site. You don't know any of this. You don't care. I'll tell you this, this bill that the Samara government did, about the Nightmare Foundation, do you know what it was? A scandal of an abusive kind. Scandal! Why? Because under the contract you signed, he has the right whenever Niarchus wants to unilaterally withdraw the donation. On the one hand, with a simple request, reasoned, written, as he considers it, he says: 'Appeal. I withdraw my donation." What's the state doing? What's he got? In one quarter will take the state and pay what Niarchus claims to have spent on building the center, what he claims: 5,000, 10,000, 000, 500,000, 70,000,000 euros? Indeed, adjusted on the basis of the Timarith. Of course, you also sign here to give interest. In retrospectives of pensioners, you didn't pay interest, and you did cutbacks, see what government you are. You are the government of oligarchy, intertwined and pimped. That's how you behave. And if you consider that appropriate and appropriate, I consider it a scandal of an unspeakable nature. If Mr Niarchos adds maintenance costs, then he will pay the public tens of millions of euros back, if he turns him sometime and says: 'I want them back'. This is your government. You were not Members of Parliament, I imagine, but that government signed it. And today the scandal is perpetuating. Because for me it's a scandal. The State accepts, admits, that it cannot in the National Health System give solutions, and expects Niarch, Velopoulos, Nikolopoulos, Villardo to give solutions, Mr. Kikilia, to give the money. I don't know. Well, the appointing party's good anyway. You're reappointing again. You've done a lot of private synergies, you're doing weird bodies to make your own people comfortable. I don't know, you guys find the mistake. Find the mistake! And I imagine that in New Democracy, if it had an operation, it would not have signed such a scandalous contract with a supplier such as the ‘Norarch’ in 2009. How did you do it? How did you sign it? You tell me. Who signed it? Will they pay for any damage? No way! Samaras or his ministers will not pay back at the time of 2009. Unfortunately, I'm going to say it one more time. The National Health System is dying. Lacks of doctors. Lacks of cleanliness, fleas, mice in hospitals, we all know them. I, ladies and gentlemen, have the opportunity to pay an insurance policy of EUR 4000 a year to go to private hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u30	You pay a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u31	Hello? Depends. Personally, four grand are. If you want me to introduce my own insurance, National Insurance. I have a contract in the Dia-Balkan. Do you want to? Next door you are at the Old Faliroe. Let's actually go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u32	What do they provide for diseases?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u33	Get away from our diseases. I imagine you're not going to public hospitals, Mr. Hatzidakis. Is that right? I, at least, have the honesty to say that I'm going to private, because I have the money. The Greek of EUR 300, ladies and gentlemen, does not have the opportunity to pay nor the opportunity to intervene. This morning I witnessed a man from St. Barbara who called me, whose wife has been waiting to operate for seven months and is not in surgery. And she was begging me to call. I'm not doing this anyway. But I know this is happening to all of you. And I said to him: 'Unfortunately, I cannot do anything'. Because you've committed a crime against the health system, all of you. And tell you where this is due? To the pathogens of the political system. Many of you here, not me, are doctors in this House. A lot of doctors and lawyers. Well, think about what interests and artifacts are served in here. It doesn't mean everyone does. But at some point let's get a little serious. I don't know if you've been abroad to see what hospitals are like. I don't know. If you go, you'll understand. Why did I say that, Mrs. Rapti? I said it because Plato, Uncle Plato, said: "In a state where there are lawyers and doctors more than anyone else is rotting in the exercise of power." Here, then, 40%, 50% are lawyers and doctors. It's not even a courthouse, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u34	They're elected.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u35	Look, now, don't get into logic how they're elected. Don't get into that logic. I prefer a parliament that is representative, indeed, where the farmer is, and he will be the farmer, and he will be the employee. Unfortunately, these people cannot be! Um, they don't have it! Your presidents choose doctors, lawyers, that's reality, not society. Through a list proposed by the party presidents, voters choose. It is not representative of our citizens, indeed, for Greek society. It is not the mirror of the Greek society, unfortunately the House is in the complex. Let's go to the coroner now. Do you know how much it costs for a single man, unemployed, wearing five, six masks a day? Because experts say: 'We're about four hours to change it.' Have you figured it out? And you make them wear masks? Give the masks free! In the month 150 euros, an unemployed or unemployed person needs his masks. Where's he going to get it? The masks that, according to Mr Chiodra, at first were dangerous, unnecessarily, then optional, then compulsory, then unnecessarily, now compulsory again. Decide or mandatory something and the state care and helps unemployed and unemployed with money to take the masks because the other one doesn't have the money! We're just telling you things, your logic I want, nothing else! It obliges the other one to save and well, to pay 150 euros fine if he doesn't wear a mask. Good! Where's he going to get it? Tell me where he'll get the money! Where? If you find them, give them to him yourself. And I'll tell you why I'm saying that. The pediatricians say the mask is forbidden in children under the age of ten. It's forbidden! They become obsessed for hours without understanding it, German newspaper "SÜDDEUTSCHE ZEITUNG", and Greek pediatricians say that. Will you force the children to wear masks for six hours, for seven hours? Okay, this is from your ministers. Of course, that's not all. Oh, no. Listen a little. To be serious. By the time you want to impose the masks you open the cruise. Now what are these logical? I mean, you're between the hammer and the hammer. Does that mean what? In your panic, because you see scary problems, you're right. And you took it from a government, which on the coroner you are the exception really. I mean, no one thought a government would get her a coronary. It's been a difficult situation, I understand. But the measures are logical and consistent and consistent. You're taking the shots. And I'm talking sloppy about why? I'll give you one example only. Listen to understand how contradictory your government is. On your leg, unfortunately! Ferries Igoumenitsa - Corfu Closed ships have the right to offer hot toast. Restaurant license is needed. Open-ended ships don't have the right to sell them in a bag only. "In one case the coronary is transmitted," says Chardalias, "the other is not transmitted". Chardale's statement is from Igoumenitsa. Do you understand what you're doing? I mean, it's things that don't work logically. The late Karamanlis had said that Greece is a vast madhouse. Well, you prove it daily, the descendants of Constantine Karamanlis, while you are, because now you are noisy liberals, you are not of the people's right. You may be MPs, but your leadership has a problem with caramanism and what Karamanlis' popular right-wing patriotic right-wing. Because what we are saying is that many New Democracy colleagues would like to say but they do not dare. How can you say it when you've got a heir-liberal leadership? Are you anti-antivists? Are you against the suicide of the Greeks? No, you're gonna say. Yeah, but it's your Chief. The Prime Minister said so. There's a statement from him. That's why I'm saying you don't have a compass ideological now as a New Democracy and you legislate on your leg, harp glue. Let's go to the worst. Let me remind the Minister and Mr Hardalia, who rather decide to close the churches as well as I am learning, that on 30 July to 3 August there is a prayer of Muslim, Minister. But don't do the same with Easter. Because Easter closed the churches, New Democracy, the mosques left them open. As soon as the Ramadan started, it's over. Now they have a prayer. It is called 'Height', called 'Eid ad-ad-adha'. It's a prayer - you don't know Arabic, I apologize, but all right - involving prayer, family visits and sacrifice with lamb. So I ask, is this where the measures will be complied with? Because I hear Chrysochide went to Mykonos - and he did well with him - and he said he's going to break - now listen, the Constitution is being violated, here I am not with him - in homes because some people are telling their homes the parties. The police are going to break into houses. So we're clearly violating the asylum. We come here ourselves, through a Minister of the House, a Minister decides, Chrysochoid, to break into homes of people. He said it yesterday at Mykonos. These show that on one side of the Greeks you are strict - if you want - and you want to protect as an alibi the health of people - I understand your anxiety - but on other aspects of other religions, doctrines, behaviors you do not do so. Why? I'm asking you. Since we're talking about public health. Because, frankly, it is perhaps the most difficult administration of the New Democracy, due to a coronary, I insist once again, and I told the Prime Minister in private: let us call on SYRIZA, the JRC, and let us finally gather together and make proposals for the reconstruction of the economy. I'll tell you raw and dry. You don't have a schedule, and it seems. And by the way, you didn't have a financial programme, and you don't have a plan. If the rest of you have, we can help you at least all together. I am not talking about a meeting of political leaders, about experts, to rebuild our economy. There's a problem. Since October, you will be beaten. I'm telling you right now. They'll beat you no matter what you say. Why are they gonna beat you? Because you clearly can't handle the situation on your own. It can't be done. A coronary, an epidemic, a pandemic is not treated by a government. You're wrong, we're talking about pandemic. And yet, with the sound of arrivals, with the front - you think you'll rule back. Just transfer the problem for later, because the Prime Minister's mind is the election. He's thinking about that, too. I will see the Prime Minister if in September or October he is consistent with what he said about culturalism, because he said in June he said that he would not hold an election in September. We'll see about that, too. But let's actually go. On 30 July 1994, if I ask someone in here, she will not know what had happened. I'm sure of that. Do you know what happened on 30 July 1994, ladies and gentlemen? Greece signs the International Law of the Seas, the well-known story with the EOZ. Since 1994, no government has declared EOZ. Greece is at stake with war and the only international right that can protect it, does not implement it. I'm not saying delimitation. The proclamation is a unilateral right. The delimitation is bilateral or polymer if you want. And I say it, 'cause it's just stuff. Why, since 1994, no government has made it self-evident to declare an EEZ? Why has no government been establishing fishing zones in the Aegean since 1981? I ask: why did no government develop our territorial waters in twelve miles? I ask that all parties answer me. Because your fearful syndrome and affliction towards Turkey leads you to constant retreat. Because I know from nature's law that when you feed your enemy, the wolf, or Turkey, constantly with meat, it'll take more meat, understand it. The season of sedation is over. It is time to stand up all Greeks united, to have national consensus from all parties, because difficult times are coming with the Turks in the next few months. And it's a fact. Today, the German newspaper "SÜDDDEDUTSCHE ZEITUNG" - and I call for a German press, because the neo-democrats, because of the Prime Minister, have a special relationship with Germany - states: "Greek-Turkish conflict with Merkel mediation". It's a whole article. I read to you exactly what the German newspaper says: 'The hard positions of Athens with regard to sovereign rights. Erdogan's swordsman, he's not afraid of military risks." And he says at the end, the German newspaper, which is a serious political newspaper, is not the "BILD": "Athens should move away from the hard positions, the sovereign rights of the three thousand islands and its islands are Germany's logic". This is today's publication. And the interview between Mr. Teddy and Mr. Teddy comes to the ERT today, at the same time as saying this. Listen. If SYRIZA really didn't agree on what New Democracy does, he would today have made an announcement. What does Mr. Dendias say? The agreement on Egypt could be phased out and the first phase could be a partial delimitation of a section of the maritime areas. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Balafa, speaks of the Greek Minister and talks about the partial delimitation of the EEZ with Egypt and the parties don't make announcements. Partial demarcation is a violation of the International Maritime Agreement. Some delimitation was only made by Greece in the Ionian Sea, and now it's going to do with Egypt. I'm announcing it here. The government does not understand and makes partial delimitation with Egypt, because 'a little pregnant' does not exist in sovereign rights. Dendias told Mr Cottaridis today, to my colleague at the ERT. He didn't refuse to exclude Kastelorizo from the AOZ. This morning, Mr. Comrade. And SYRIZA didn't make a announcement. It happened this morning. Mr. Dendias announced that it might be excluded from Kastelorizo. Who's the Dendias who's changing my exclusive economic zone from ERT? We met with the Prime Minister and said a few things, ladies and gentlemen. I told the Prime Minister. What Dendias did today, to give Kastelorizo TV for reduced influence, is a betrayal of Kastelorizo, not to say something more disgraceful. What right? Did he talk to Mr. Tsipras? We all met together to say reduced influence? How does a government decide to deliver ground for Greek? You tell me. Otherwise, to withdraw Mr. Dendias. Since the morning, the Turkish media have made it a flag. All Turks took it and made it a flag. Greece agrees, he says. What right? You tell me what right? How are these things? Let Mr. Dendias object. At the same time Mr Denkias says this, 'BAROS' is sailing from Turkey and goes to Cyprus. If for you Cyprus lies a long way, for us Cyprus is Greece, because geoculturalism is a key factor in the exercise of a serious foreign policy. Geoculture! Where there is Hellenism and Greece, Greece has the right under geoculturalism to protect these regions. Let us not forget that we have the single defence doctrine. You threw it in the trash. Let's not forget that we're also a guarantee force. And yet, no one talks, as if there was an agreement not to talk. Well, I get it on the inside, but can't the Greeks, the MPs here? Do the New Democracy MPs agree with what Mr. Dendias said? Do you agree, ladies and gentlemen? Did anyone ask you? What are you all, the gear of a mechanism? Generally speaking, I'm not saying this for you, Admiral. Answer me whenever you want. So, do you agree with the reduced influence on Kastelorizo? This is my question for all the Ministers and Members of the New Democracy. The rest we'll find in the process, united together, if it becomes fatal. Yeah, but how do you agree? Why don't the other parties talk? Why don't SYRIZA talk, the JRC? Well, Mera25 doesn't exist. Why doesn't any of us talk, guys? Are we gonna swallow that, too? The neo-democrats came out of here and said your traitors about Macedonia. The traitors were telling you, and now we surrender national sovereignty and you don't speak. You either agreed with them sub-basics or something happens, you probably don't have good reflexes. I'm sorry to say that. I read Turkish guy today. I'll tell you one more time. Don't be afraid of Turkey. Today the Turkish press keeps saying the same thing, they have a problem with their air force. After the cancellation of the F-35s they have a problem with their F-16s. No pilots, no masters. You know that, Admiral. They've all been demobilized. He's taking their heads off. They don't have an army. Why should we say less domination? Tell me why? Do you know what the oxymobile is? I'm going to make a historical regression. On July 29, 1825, you know what happened? Canaris, the lunatic, had arrived out of Alexandria and went to burn the entire Egyptian fleet with two ships. Alone! In about five he couldn't do it because of the weather. With bolts, bolts, and today we have an army like that, an Air Force, such a Navy, we're terrific! Honestly, I don't get it. And it comes to the point - I want you all to listen to me now - the representative of the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Kalin Erdogan's right hand, in an interview last night to say that all of you are a bastard nation. That's what he said, you have nothing to do with ancient Greece. Officially said the man who is Erdogan's right hand, that the Greeks have nothing to do with ancient Greece and what they say is fairy tales or Byzantium. That's what he said and he doesn't come out of the State Department doing even a homework, a protest, how do you say that thing, dude? What Turkey? The seventy-two minorities, the slaughterers, Nazis, Kemal's fascists, Erdogan and all those who killed minorities, ethnic groups, who raped, and who has the courage and speaks! And it doesn't come out of the Department of Foreign Affairs to make an announcement, to say something. Not Dendias, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Ours are ours, gentlemen. Now, you'll tell me that there are Greeks who say that because they believe in Falmeryer's fairy tales. The fairy tales! Well, my friend Clonas is here. His chief had said we were bastards from Africa. Okay, what am I waiting for Calin to tell me? What do you mean, Calin, when I say it, when someone else says it to us in here? He's going to say it, too. However, officially, a service note, announcement or reaction had to be issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What bothers me from the New Democracy is that he hears but "benac" and "bengeakis" are. I told the Minister here, stop the mosques. I have a new mosque license in Xanthi. It's a new license. You will tell me 'Why?' For while in Turkey every eight hundred inhabitants have a mosque, in Greece, in Thrace every four hundred inhabitants have a mosque. In other words, in Turkey, which is a Muslim country, they have one per eight hundred and we in Thrace have one per four hundred inhabitants. In empty villages - because I go to Thrace often - they have mosques, they make mosques now. Freeze, a little, baby. And in the Botanic, "fly it" I told you. Press Turkey a little where it hurts in its economy. You're not doing anything. Nothing. Look, the other guy's talking to his phone now. What can I say now? Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Comrade, please, come on out and talk to the phone. Come on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u37	What we're living! Last day, boys, be patient. You're going on vacation. We close with this: still the government will make a bridge with Assad. A bridge with Assad, you guys. We left him on the sidelines. Assad decided yesterday to make an exact copy of Saint Sofia in Syria. Assad! The Assad of whom neither diplomatic delegation nor anything. On the other hand, you see the alliances are fluid. Palestine, which we so much embraced in the past - we embraced them, we helped them - is with Erdogan. And instead of making a bridge for us to recognise Jerusalem as their capital - this is the bridge, not the state - as a relanche toward them, instead of having a relationship with Assad, with Egypt better relations, not go give everything, what are we doing? We expect what the Americans and the Germans will say about whether or not I have to make good relations with Syria. Friends and friends, closing down, I'd like to say something about the economy. You know, with SYRIZA, we're divided into huge ideological differences. I imagine all of us are divided into various ideological groups. But the logic unites us. Yesterday I heard this absurdity about red loans and I would like to ask a few questions: The New Democracy, unfortunately, is not listening to our voice about the bad bank. I've said it a thousand times. The solution exists. The Americans did it in the '40s. It worked out for them. The private and the state earned money. We'll tell you to copy the successful model. You don't. You do not, because you fear, as Prime Minister yesterday, indirectly but clearly Mr Tsipras, your partners, institutions, borrowers, loan sharks, funds, etc. But to get SYRIZA out and talk about the protection of the first home, which on 22 February 2019 abolished its protection, in '15 sold red loans by law, in 1919 they agreed with the troika mass auctions, and submitted a plan to protect the house yesterday? We wanted to sign this, that's not bad. Okay, but he wants a little serious. It can't be when we're government to say, but when we're opposition to it, we can't talk. At some point there may be consistency of words and deeds, words and deeds. And I close with this: Aren't you really ashamed of the retroactive haircuts of your retired people? Aren't you ashamed? At the "Norarch" in the contract you signed in 2009 you tell him that "what you decide to ask for, with interest we will give you". And this is where you cut 60% in retrospective pensioners. I don't really understand it. I can't understand it. Why does that mean what? That the state is a thief state. By not giving retrospectives to the pensioners who, in fact, are entitled to both civil servants and officials - you have cut them to our officers and police officers - it means that the state is a thief, it is a crook. Because if the Greek citizen owes me interest, he pays me what he owes. You're not paying interest, but you're teasing their base. This is a state of crooks, a state of thieves. That's the reality. And unfortunately, you don't know something very simple. The money was paid for by the people. They've paid for it. Pensioners have paid them. You are entitled to this pension by your own laws, not by the law of the Greek Solution. By law of the New Democracy, PASOK. SYRIZA five years ruled. You can't give too much responsibility to them. But you ruled. You owe them that. Listen, you don't give them, they're bored, you ask for the change, and you say 'Move me now'. These are mistakes, mistakes by a government that has a leader, Mr Mitsotakis, who wants to be called a reformer and progressive in the broadest sense of the term that it is not the old-party tube. These are behaviours of old-fashioned society. I'll tell you what, Gruisesa. Do you remember Gruesa? It's Gruesa's logic. "What are you doing? I'm at the party. What are you doing? I'm at the party. Well, what do you do? I'm in the party." Well, that's not how it works. It can't be done. I shall close and say this: the biggest scandal, ladies and gentlemen, has been done by the law of the New Democracy. And I'll say it raw now: Post Banking. Yesterday they all got acquitted. All of them! 500m euros of sea loans. SYRIZA covered it up, didn't run the case. And yesterday, my dear friends and friends, while they changed the Criminal Code, and they come, friends and friends, with the change of the Criminal Code, persecution had to be done, and they were therefore acquitted. The Greek people lost 500m euros - and let this be heard well - cooperation - synergy, voluntary or inadvertently - I do not know - SYRIZA who has delayed and changed the Criminal Code, so that the New Democracy will not speak at all. And now those gentlemen who ate the cosmic's money, being acquitted after each other. Thirty-five with felony and all innocent. And then you arrest the man who owes 10,000 euros, 5,000 euros, 6,000 euros. You cut his pension, you cut him in his retrospectives, you don't give him his pension, and you ask for the change. You're wrong. You are criminalizing Greek society. These are crimes. But it's all inside the vagina. Nobody showed it up. Nobody! The offences for 500m euros were dropped and neither the New Democracy nor the SYRIZA nor any party, unfortunately. I'm sorry. This is not how Greece is governed. That's how Koza Nostra governs and other things rule. You got it. Complete transparency, fight against corruption, and leave that behind. No more fairy tales. There's no more money. The 500 million could be taken by the national defense and take missiles too, take helicopters, take whatever we want, not to be afraid of anyone at our borders. Give retrospectives to the pensioners, but also protect our homeland. There are neither retrospectives nor pensioners nor Greeks. You're making mistakes and I'm afraid that since October, I said it yesterday, you're gonna be thrown at stones. And these stones will be stones of indignation and anger with the mistakes you make.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u39	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u40	Is there anything on personal grounds?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u41	Can I have a minute? Why did he address...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u42	I didn't say your name, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u43	I wanted to say something specifically about the ESS.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u44	You will only have the floor for a minute, Mr Colleague, please, because we need to get on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, I, too, had the same idea that the ESS did not function, function or function, or that it was "bad". But the time came, and I got sick. I went to the Laiko, to the blood lab. I want to assure you - and I wish you never to have to get sick - that the level of doctor training, the health staff, left me incompetent! Don't blame something you haven't used. I am very responsible for telling you that if I am alive and upright today, it is due to the people of the ESS and especially to the haematological of "Laika". [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And let me tell you, because I had the same idea as you that we should be insured, to have a private insurance policy, that this security did pay 40,000 to me for the exclusive nurses. Thirty-seven days I didn't know if I would live, and I lived for the sake of these people. So, Mr President, please do not level everything. At the edge of the speech I would like to tell you that you are not tested. Then you'll change your mind. And because you said "Sir Admiral" and "Sir Admiral", we are not afraid of any enemy. If need be, as the Prime Minister said, we will do what we have to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u47	Madam President, he has misunderstood something.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, I am sorry that he has given an explanation of what you said about private security. I think there's no reason to go on with it. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u49	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u50	Here, you have the floor for just a minute and the debate will end here. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u51	I did not say it well or did not understand, although I did not address him. I didn't say that doctors aren't good, the best in the world are our doctors, so they go abroad and work and they all want them. I guess he didn't understand. I talked about equipment. I talked about hospitals. I talked about infrastructure, personnel they don't have. You probably didn't understand what I said. No one disputes the scientific training of new doctors and nurses. Anyone who doubts this has not gone abroad. Greek doctors are the best and most expensive. As for what you said to me, you are not afraid of Mr. Diacondopoulos and say it to Mr. Teddy, not to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. We're entering the chatter list. Mr Varzopoulou has the floor from New Democracy, and Mrs Karasarlidou must be prepared by SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for six minutes. You know that time has changed, don't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Despite the short time, let me say that I, too, heard the statements made by the Minister of Foreign Affairs this morning to the ERT, and I must tell the honourable President of the Greek solution that he either did not understand or misunderstood or in any case did not understand the essence of the words of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I believe that within the next few hours he will understand that, in fact, Mr Dendias did not say what the President has said. I also think, not to say that I am absolutely sure that the honourable President is aware that the national attitude and leadership of both the Government and the entire New Democracy Parliamentary Group are the one that has always been of the Greek Right. But as much as we want to deal with these great things, let us come back, since we have come and talk about a bill, which, in fact, is essential. Minister, Mr President-in-Office, I really do not think there is any point in taking a special time to support the bill, nor in principle, which is self-evident in supporting quality, nor in supporting the provisions that are so simple, which really show that they can be implemented directly and lead to tangible and substantial results. So let me go directly to mention examples showing indicators and procedures that guarantee measurable and comparable quality, for example the implementation of analytical accounting and cost centres, and even after the introduction that is ready for the Ministry of Hospitals by diagnostic category, the famous DRGs. What does that mean? It means that immediately we will be able to make comparisons not only of similar units inside but also compare them with best examples abroad. There are, of course, more general indicators of administrative adequacy of the system, e.g. the anticipations, indicators which show that Anglo-Saxon NHS is not doing so well, such as the anticipation of specific operations, hip, knees, waterfall indicators, such as LPs. How is the waiting at the TLP on a daily basis of the ‘Evangelism’, ‘Papageorgios’? What is the qualitative problem that we cannot offer to large urban centers in all hospitals a 24-hour readiness of sixty-five days a year? Watch out. There are also indicators of pure medical coagulation, such as the number of complications, the prolongation of hospitalisation, relapses, new imports, the number of diagnostic tests required by the diagnostic class, the endosocomial infections. What does all this mean? They mean that all these indicators can lead to a chain evaluation of staff and ensure the quality of staff selection. How? Watch out. The performance of the medical team is the one that attracts the world, reports the financial result but guarantees quality. So if we are to ensure that the coordinator - director - can choose this medical team, we immediately have an assessment of his medical cowardice and administrative cowardice. And if we are to ensure that this doctor-coordinator is chosen by the administration or selected by this nursing institution in which he or she will go after his or her three-year or four-year term of office, as is done throughout Europe, we immediately have an assessment of the management's ability to choose the right medical staff. You are now aware that this staff must be privatized. And the best way to reward this staff is to give him the materials he wants and the staff he wants. And you realize that if the analytical accounting shows that there is this possibility, because not to do private work in the clinics and even to have private beds, not afternoon clinics, so that it has the materials and pool system to transmit these to all the medical teams and all the scientific staff and all the nurses who serve in the unit, so that it has the corresponding motives. Quality, however, means providing all medical services throughout the territory, i.e. a health map. It is clear that we cannot have coronaries everywhere, but it is also clear that the welfare state is obliged to guarantee at every angle of the territory the execution of an emergency coronary in measurable time. And to shave old wounds, what happened to it, where is the qualitative evaluation of psychiatric reform? Is it covered in whole territory? What about the aggressive incidents? What is being done in the past with the chronic patients? Where are they going? There is also a need for quality control in the matter of private medicine. Why are the amounts collected in excess of the EEA State hospitals that are collected? Should there be a weighting of hospitals according to the quality of services offered? Despite the narrowness of time, let me say two essential words about primary care. It is quite clear that the quality of these services provided by health centres and regional rural-type doctors should be checked. How many autonomous deeds are finally going on there? How many referrals to the adjacent hospitals? How many recipes are written every day? What do preparations change every time? How much time is available for autonomous medical operations and how much for prescribing? And besides, let's see what's going on in the city. Let's leave the TOMYs and go into private contracts with the EEAY. Should we not set specific medical operations there at a similar cost to the EEAS, so that quality services can be provided in the world? And should we not, depending on the duplication of these actions, extend both the scope and the actions and broaden the number of persons involved, so that we can finally get where Europe is? In other words, we have full coverage of the population from enclosed individuals for all medical operations at every corner of the territory without any charge for the citizen. Let me close by saying two words about the medicine. Look. Pharmacopoeia means one thing, an international prescribing therapeutic protocol. Anybody who violates it will have to pay. So, Minister, clawback is for prescribing fellow doctors, not for those who import medicines, not for those who produce medicines, not for those who sell medicines, not for private centers or any diagnostic service centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u55	We also need to know very well, as we all know, that the amount of money, i.e. the cost of pharmaceutical expenditure, remains unchanged. This is not due to the volume, it is due to the preparations selected. It is therefore a qualitative need for the EEAS to launch regional and time competitions in order to offer specific generic terms by class.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u56	Mr Colleague, please have to shut down and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u57	I'll be right back, Madam President, and excuse me. Thanks for the tolerance. Minister, opposition is right when it says that it is a bill that has many potential for implementation, it is a multi-tool, it can become an essential means of changing the way the National Health System operates in the public and private sectors. Well, good work, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u59	Madam President, I would like the floor for a clarification on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u60	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u61	I shall of course neither question nor answer to the honourable Member that he is implying and implying that the President of the Greek Solution has a problem with what Mr Denkias said this morning. If anyone can blame Mr. Velopoulos for something, he will certainly not blame him for having a perception problem, he is so reverent that he understands it all. This is the first to point out for the Minutes in relation to the Declaration of the Treasury. And secondly, I would like to make a clarification so that people can understand what's going on. Mr Denkias, this morning he said: there must be a settlement between the countries, it is not a unilateral one. First of all, it's a lie, you can declare an EOZ unilaterally. Another demarcation, another proclamation. The delimitation also needs a second state and a third state. You make the proclamation yourself. So this is the first lie and the corresponding clarification. Secondly, he said: "A fantastic agreement, like that of Turkey with Libya, simply states intent". Look a little: with regard to what Turkey has done with Libya, now Turkey on this and creates rightful and evolving developments. So Greece has not declared itself - 'declared', Mr EOZ. The AEZ declaration is unilateral, while the delimitation is bilateral. That is something we need to understand, and that is why I am clarifying it. Other is 'procedure' and another 'determined'. Unfortunately, that is what Mr Dendias said today. The only disagreement, he said...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u63	I shall conclude, Madam President. Mr. Dendias said that Greece has no further disagreements with Turkey, except for the continental shelf and the AEZ.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Heta, you will have the time to tell your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u65	I'm closing, Madam President. So we ask this: Since we have this disagreement, why not declare an EEZ on our own with Cyprus?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u66	Mrs Karasarlidou has the floor for six minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a draft law on health, and we are facing a major health crisis, perhaps in the face of the biggest crisis that has so far hit the world community horizontally. It is true that our country has had a good course in dealing with it to date, which has succeeded with the 100% contribution of the public health system. We have said, perhaps for the first time, that in the crises we can rely on the public health system. And I want to mention two facts, two semantic events, which have remained in my memory. One is Mr Nikita Kaklamani's statement on a television broadcast, if I remember well, who said: 'Let the papayas of neoliberalism speak again against the public health system'. The other fact is that I remember the Prime Minister's wife, trying to smuggle the applause in the balconies for the health of the National Health System and "before a dilemma, you're voiced, three...", the government comes with today's bill and directly undermines the public health system, while on the occasion of his alleged evaluation he plans to shrink it. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, when reality, not only the Greek but the world, so sadly disproves your neoliberal ideology for public health, and you insist, then what's it called? It's called ideoscopy. Listen for a moment to what Antonio Guterres, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, says: 'The virus throws light on all inequality of all kinds. It puts the most vulnerable and its social and economic consequences at higher health risk, focusing on those who are less able to cope with it. If we do not act now, even a hundred million people may lead to extreme poverty, and we may see infections of historical dimensions. CIVID -19 is a human tragedy. But it has also created an opportunity for generations to build a more equitable and sustainable world based on two central ideas: a new social contract and a new global agreement. We need a fair taxation of income and wealth and we need a new generation of protection policies with a safety net, including a universal health security." That is our view, our perception, our culture, as you would like to say, after the experience of pandemic. On the contrary, your very neoliberal view is to limit the public health system and every public sector, and to surrender to individuals who, unfortunately, are very often shown to be state-owned. You are violating and trespassing not only constitutional rights but also basic values and functions of urban democracy. Of course we are interested, of course, and we regard quality as a valuable component. But quality is something very serious. It is a case of multifactorialism that, in order to achieve this, there needs to be staffing, equipment, there need to be other facilities, infrastructure, administration and much more. However, all of these are political choices, they are political issues and it is not something that the technocrats will control. That is why we disagree overall with the philosophy of the bill. And, of course, Mr Minister, we disagree vertically with the granting of the strategic plan for public health to this new body, the PPP, which you want to build, because, as stated in its statute, the PPP will now make this strategic plan. Strategic health planning is a matter of politics, it is a matter of the Ministry and the political leadership and not only, of course, but also in consultation with the social and political forces. We also completely disagree that this anonymous company will assess, monitor and decide on the quality of the services provided by the public health system, while private structures will only be assessed if they so wish. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Madam President, I'm going to need some more time. Where exactly is equality and equality? Share in an unauthorized way, I'd say. You are in favour of the private health sector, because any assessment of fatalities will be at the expense of the public sector, the public sector which you have not provided, you have no equipment, you are not defending it. You are closing the eye on private health providers, telling them that they will not be able to compete with many of the public structures. This, of course, you can understand that it will create two-class patients, two-speed. And who are the victims? They will again be the poor and those who are economically weak. And a few words about Article 10. The penalties to be imposed on providers of public health services, when evaluated as insufficient by private experts, are provided for up to the withdrawal of the authorisation. Continue your strategy unsuccessful despite COVID messages -19. You want to close public health structures and look for an alibi. The undergraduated National Health System that the current Prime Minister, as Minister of Administrative Reform in 2014, took care to further subscribe it and resurrected it, strengthened and supported it by SYRIZA during 2015 to 2019 - so he was able to respond to the pandemic - you are now coming through and through an anonymous company to find it inadequate, to start resuming it. And I ask you directly, Minister: Hospitals, such as the Hospital of Naoussa in the Prefecture of Imathia, which is subordinated to your responsibility and will perhaps not be assessed as adequate or positive, will you close them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u68	Your Honor, you'll have to close up. You've already spoken for a minute already. I can't give you any more time. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u69	Okay, Madam President. Of all the above, the unconstitutionality of the bill is haunted, because paragraph 3 of Article 21 of the Constitution states: "The State cares for the health of its citizens and takes special measures to protect the youth, old age, disability, the care of the most deprived".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u70	Madam Colleague, please. The sitting will be suspended at 14.30 p.m. So you understand that the rest of the Members will be late. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u71	You move into the logic of extreme neoliberalism, which says that the market will sell health services to those who ask for it and of course will be able to buy it. On the contrary, we want a new political plan for health services through a new National Health System, supported by additional resources, by additional financial instruments. As our rapporteur in the committee has said, there are new needs, so we need a new health system with new resources, universal coverage and equal access for all citizens. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, too. Mr Fragidis now has the floor and the parliamentary representative of Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis immediately thereafter. Here, Mr Francisco, you have the floor for six minutes with the relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u73	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the level of medical health services is an indicator of the quality of a country's health system, and it also identifies the kind of social state it has. There are measurable sizes which, following a process of serious and objective evaluation, can provide us with useful information on which parts of the services are plucking away and what improvement they need, what the framework for the functioning of health structures should be and how resources should be allocated. The citizens of our country have a negative picture of the health system. The low degree of satisfaction is directly linked to the low quality of health services and to the problematic access to the system, the prevailing conditions in health structures, the complex bureaucratic process and the financial costs they need to pay for the services. Our party is in favour of objective and independent, without interference, an evaluation, not only of the health system but also of all areas of public life. We believe that its role is of catalyst to detect weaknesses and shortcomings, to provide incentives for improvement and ultimately to achieve the improvement of the rated one. This draft law bears a nice title, but I would describe it as a good faith, an unrealistic, premature and "handy and, poor of faith, an undermining of the public health system. It contains gaps and ambiguities, even some unjustified provisions. Reasonable questions such as, for example, because cooperation with the FPI is needed to implement the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation to the public and training for the control of hospital infections, while the EGE is already involved in hospital infections and the Anonymous Society of Health Units has as its object the education. Even the EEAS since the years laid down by the PASOK government, has been in control and evaluation of health benefits. So why are we setting up an anonymous company for this? In any case, Minister, would it not be better for an anonymous company to set up an independent authority? It is refreshing and premature, because you cannot talk about evaluation unless you first have as a state to provide all the necessary supplies to the public health system, what is shaken by the long-term economic crisis, under-financing, staff shortages and logistical equipment, low-level buildings, overloading of patients, shortages in regional infrastructure. Clearly, all this has an impact on the quality of the health services provided. What exactly will you assess from this grim situation? Our coronary pandemic revealed the chronic pathogens, weaknesses and weaknesses of the system, as at last reaching the twelve ICU beds per 100 thousand. We owe a lot to health workers, of course. But we cannot function only with the self-sacrifice of staff. Minister, I wonder what assessment you can make at primary health care when you haven't yet told us what your design for primary health care is. How will you organise it to meet the needs of prevention, diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation? What structures do you have in mind? Right now, all its structures are fragmented. We have health centres in rural areas, PEDYs and TOMY in urban areas, where there are several private medical services. There are similar services to municipalities or other organisations. However, there is no structured framework for coexistence and coexistence of primary health structures. What about home care, care for patients in time, telemedicine, patient rehabilitation? The computerization in public hospitals has not yet been completed. The establishment of agencies is also pending. How will an evaluation of something that has not been organised be carried out? At the time when you call for evaluation for all health structures, public and private, you allow private individuals to be assessed only if they want to. It goes without saying that those who do not fulfil the conditions, such as all these clinics established before 517/2001-Importantly, are forty and thirty years old - will not participate and, of course, will continue to operate without impact. If this is not an unequal treatment and benefit to the private sector, then what is it? We are therefore talking about compulsory evaluation for all, after you have provided everything necessary for the modernisation of public health structures. Objections also exist in other provisions of the bill, such as the terms and guarantees which ensure the independent functioning of the PPP, which it reports, who appoints the chairman and the board of directors and on which criteria. Minister, we're talking about evaluation. It's a matter of major importance. The appointment of the Board of Directors of the PPP should be passed by the Committee on Social Affairs of the House. So is the report of its activities. We are, therefore, positive in terms of evaluation, when we ensure the independence and objectivity of the evaluator and after the opportunity has been given to the assessor to meet the evaluation criteria. Your bill, unfortunately, is also premature and sluggish for all these reasons. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 Mr. Claus Gregoriadis has the floor now and immediately thereafter Mr. Yoyakas from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr Kontozamani, I would also like to say something, since my fellow Member from co-population referred to the ‘Laikos’ hospital and the wonderful care that happened there when he needed his help. No one doubts the science of Greek doctors. They are considered to be one of the best in the world - stones know that too - but I am not being tempted to describe my personal experience in this House and therefore in the Greek people, who may see us from home at the moment. Last Wednesday, my dear colleagues, my relative, needed an immediate stay at the "Light" Hospital. As you know, the ‘Laiko’ is a reference hospital for COVID -19, except for on-call and overnight hospital. It therefore needed my relative, extremely close, immediate transfer with the National Emergency Aid Centre, the EAW. So I took the '166' and that is where our globe began, which I will briefly describe. "166" reasonably referred me to the EGE - I was glad to hear that - telling me that EGE had to find out if there is a suspicion of COVID -19 in order to come specifically manned and specially armored ambulance, which would take my man. I find myself in passing, and it also happens to be a doctor, the particular patient, whom I wanted to carry, my relative. I contacted them, and that was the first amazing thing and worrying, in my opinion. Mr. Contozaman, note it and look for it. They asked me if man has COVID-19 symptoms. It was a woman's voice on the ETA's phone. I said he didn't have it, and I added that because he's a doctor, he's been doing a test this morning, which came out negative. "Oh, good," he said, "then you can get the EKT again." That's the mechanism - I say it for anyone who doesn't know - you get the EAW, the EAW refers you to the EAW, and the EAW re-refers you there. He can't send an ambulance if the EGE doesn't give the ok, because he has to judge whether he needs to be an intact or an armored for COVID -19 ambulance. So this lady agreed that my relative COVID -19 did not have one ambulance, which had no protection, I mean for the injured and my relative, but also for me who was escorting him, but above all for those injured, these good people we are going to talk about after what they told me during the transport. Throughout almost twenty-four-four hours - the receipt of the patient, his transfer - to the People's State, no one checked - for the market verb - it did not check in any way if COVID -19 had actually been tested in this relative. They were therefore based on my good words. I do not see that too much for a National Health System. Let's get through it now. I know you haven't been doing this for a year. They've been pathogens for decades. In these decades, however, I will remind you that a long time ago your resignation was governed. He ruled PASOK, you ruled too, and SYRIZA ruled a little too. When I called the ETUC - '166' - which reminds you that it is a centre for immediate assistance, the man there referred me to the EGE. I called the ETA. Now I have had the right to call an ambulance without armor. I went back to the C.E.D. and explained that E.D. had given the okay. He replied: 'Good, I will send you an ambulance, only I don't know when I'll send it to you'. I asked him: What do you mean, sir? He answered: I will tell you in six hours, seventeen or twenty-four. I think that you all agree, on this: What kind of immediate help is a help that can't answer my phone centre if it'll come within 24 hours and if my man is alive, if he'll make twenty-two hours to come. He replied to me - I am putting this out of this Step here because it is very serious - that, unfortunately, the ambulances are not enough and it is so little, that it would be too risky to say that in the next six or ten hours the ambulance will come to pick up my man. That's the first. Inside the ambulance, I met two wonderful wounded men, who... [[Noise in the Chamber]] How many hours did the ambulance come in? At 10:30 at night, Mr. Comrade, the ambulance finally arrived. Throughout the transport, the people who were there accounted for their drama. They told me they were about hostages, that they were prisoners in Athens. They told me that because of COVID -19, because of the terrible economic problems we all have due to ten years of monuments, but also COVID -19, while it was from Trikala, from Karditsa, they don't leave them, they don't transfer - the National Health System - to get back by force them to stay in Athens with rents, with what it means to be in another city, which is your real residence. We arrive at 10:30 at the "Lacto" and, of course, end up at the external medical offices of the pathological clinic. I will inform you that in space not greater - I mean exactly - the twenty-five squares were conspiring fifteen handbags of the EMCDDA, with fifteen patients and fifteen escorts, one of whom I was. Of course, if you count the squares and the laptops I told you, you understand that they were packed, one touched the other, as were the escorts. Throughout this orchestra, two heroine deserts - completely heroines - women Greek doctors, wonderful ladies, thanks to the heroism of which several people escaped that night - including my own relative - were fighting to evaluate, diagnosed, find out what they should do and refer to the relevant clinic of each man. We were in the external medical services, which was in a room through the main hallway. During this story, every five minutes on the clock - four ten minutes or fifteen - someone opened the main corridor and shouted: "Possible COVID -19, leave the hallway". Thus the relatives, who were there assembled, ran out of the "Laiko" in the yard, i.e. to pass the possible COVID -19. And it was picturesque, indeed, Mr. Kontozamanis, that there was a blue line - you know, according to the model of Italy or the serious countries - which showed where the truck has to pass, supposedly not to infect the rest of the corridor. But come on, the hallway is so narrow that this line was in its center, in fact. I'm telling you things I saw a week ago. We passed - listen to this - from 10:30 to almost 2:00 before midday on the next day until these two herds succeeded doctors and scientists to understand what each has or at least to understand what my relative, who was also from the first to the pathological clinic on the third floor. My relative's life was at stake, and I am able to know it, because he is a doctor and he, like doctors and too many others in my family - my father, my sister and my mother - so I have a little knowledge of medicine. His life was in danger. At 2:00 the hour began to accept the amazing treatment of the pathological clinic of the "Lach" Hospital on the third floor. Note the evidence because they are characteristic: First, this man arrives at the pathological clinic, given that his life is at stake, and they tell me at the office of nurses and nurses: "You arrived, but unfortunately there is no room, there is no bed, you will enter a ranch." Radzo was finally the same portrait of the EKAB, from which my relative had not come down from the moment we arrived at "Laiko". We sat there. We're saying, it's okay. What can we do? We have a democracy. Of course I, as a left-wing Member, have never learned from anyone with whom I came into contact - from the first to the last - that I am a Member of Parliament, because we do not want rhetoric in Mera25, I was a normal citizen, so without my identity being photographed and because I was wearing a mask, they did not even have the little ruffles, which I usually have as a famous actor on Greek television. So it's 2: 00 the hour there. That's where we found out he's got to be at a ranch, someone who's in danger of his life. It was my first ranch. In the next ten minutes there were twenty ranjas in the hallway of the third floor at the "Laikos" Hospital, with people, who, I assure you, were in danger of their lives. Next to us was a captain seventy - six years old, who had a haematocrit 22. Doctors - and we have a lot of people in the Chamber - understand what it means to be a man with a bloodcrit 22 in a ranch, just waiting for the end. I hope the man has lived, good time! We've asked for sheets in these ranja deserts. They said to us: 'Unfortunately they have ended!' I'll give it to you. I was there. 'Are they over?' I said. “Yes, they are done” they answered. I say to them: ‘We have a problem. My relative pees and gets dirty." They say to me: 'We will give you the plastic substrates that go under the sheets'. We've put this all together. You want to know the result? The result was that at 5 o'clock in the morning my relative had not received any other treatment, only serum was, because anyway, his condition was such, he had symptoms of acute gastroenteritis, which we did not know were due, with fever, diarrhoea and vomiting within a few hours. He was a grown man, eighty-five years old and was clearly at risk of his life, having lost so much moisture and electrolytes. So this man went through the hallway of our third floor of "Lolian" Hospital, where the door of the ground floor opened and shouted "Possible COVID -19, go save" until 5 a.m., on these plastics flowing over his urine and impurities. He and I jumped out, too. This is 2020 our National Health System. Technically, until this morning, my relative did. It was extracted and moved over the urine and its impurities by 11:00 a.m. So you know what he did? He signed - against the opinion of doctors - because he was in direct danger of his life - I have to say, I have to peace in passing, that we chose to go to a state hospital, because people from a medical family know very well that only there will you be saved, if your life really is at risk, although very badly we did as it turned out to be "Laiko" - to go, to a private hospital, to pay so that we can finally accept some human care in 2020. So he signed up against the opinion of doctors who said his life is in danger immediately and said that "here my life will be gone anyway from infection or septicemia. I'm gonna die. I'm a doctor. I'm about to die. So let's go. On the road I have more chance." So he got out of there. The next morning, I was still there, of course, because there was no other relative due to the lack of vacation for our common relatives at this time. I spoke to these two doctors a little bit. The nurses were three more I have to tell you on the floor of his pathological clinic "Lach". The people who needed treatment would be a hundred percent and treated by these three overall nurses both doctors. I said to them: "If I suspect that you're still here without having gone home since 10:30 that I came yesterday at 11:00, I will die!" And they answered: "No, we're not since you came. We've been in the morning at 7:00." These ladies, the heroines, with whom all the Prime Ministers are photographed, had done thirty-hour shifts, facing fifty people each in serious condition. Doctors are enough in this Chamber. They understand what a criminal thing I'm talking about. As to why I experienced this experience and my relative, this traumatic and almost fatal experience, we have the answer: Do you know why we lived with her? We have lived for the simple reason that after six or seven conspicuous months of coronary, after the drama, which our Italian neighbours have seen, after all this mess, that we have lived in the ground floor, you have managed - I am talking about the government - to have hired four hundred and thirty auxiliary doctors. Four hundred and thirty doctors have hired three and a half thousand subsidiary health professionals. Consider it to be a drop in the ocean, when we have the presumption that before the pandemic there were five thousand permanent - non-adjudicial - non-adjudicial, i.e., with a two-year contract - specialist doctors and twenty-five thousand other sanitaries, according to your official, friends and friends, organograms in 2012, where you said that they are missing from the system twenty-five thousand sanitaries and five thousand doctors. I wasn't ruling. Mr. Varoufakis wasn't ruling. It wasn't Mera25. It was in 2012, if I'm not cheating, Mr. Venizelos, it was one of these "wonderful" Memorandum governments! I don't remember exactly. I might be wrong. Maybe it was Mr. Samaras. It's probably Mr. Samaras. It didn't make much difference. Memorandums are brought by these governments that are oppressing the Greek people. At the same time, when this accepted your organograms, normal health and doctors claimed that in reality, thirty - five thousand health workers are missing from the system and eight and a half thousand doctors are missing. What does all this mean? They mean that you have managed to hire under five thousand people, of whom fewer than five hundred - you don't have your god, you have your apologies for the expression - they are doctors and none of them has been recruited at all times. He said Mr Kikilias yesterday in my timely question: 'We will take care of it'. But that is a wish. None of these people have been hired at all times. This is a drama. Also - since the Minister has come - in the same question I told him that there are rumours that when a tourist comes forward self-advised and says "examine me" and comes out that he has COVID -19, it is not counted, it is not announced. I did not understand her answer correctly and since you are here, I want a clear explanation and a clear statement, Mr Kikilia. Is there a case on a small island - why did I feel that you were insinuating, but I do not want to paraphrase you, I may be wrong - so that we do not ruin his tourist movement, that there is a case and that never reach the media? Because, if that happens, it's outrageously dangerous tactics. Outrageously dangerous tactics! Because this one can be a thousand in a few weeks. Madam President, I should like to conclude by thanking you for your minor tolerance, which is why we met two Turkish lawyers, Mrs Desiyer Demir and Mr Guyunay Doug, a very short time ago. These lawyers represent two other lawyers, who are on hunger strike and who are doomed to Turkey. Look at what's going on in Turkey. I'll tell you very quickly, so I don't have your time. In Turkey - such a democracy has so great a democracy of Mr Erdogan! - this: If anyone, anyone, a contempt, says he's a terrorist, is immediately arrested for a terrorist. If I'm a lawyer and I'm going to defend him, immediately he can blame me for the official state, that I'm a terrorist. Why? Because my commander is a terrorist. In this sense the junta and fascism of Turkey have arrived. They are therefore the 'lawyers of the people'. Eighteen lawyers were convicted and the sixteen are convicted as terrorists simply because they defended some who are supposed to be terrorists, without any proof. I am telling you all this - I am closing with this, Madam President - because we have a problem with the Turks. We got too close to war last week. We've come to hot episodes. But we have a brilliant weapon, a brilliant weapon. You have Members. Unfortunately, we don't have one. I promise you next time, Mera25 will have five, six MEPs in the European Parliament. For now we don't have one. But you all do. Use them. And use our comparative advantage. What is our advantage? Our advantage is that we have democracy, not absolute, not perfect, the parasitic oligarchs do their boxes, do what they are smoked. But we have a kind of democracy in Greece. Show it to all international organisations. Go to the European Union, to the European Parliament and say what these people live there. Say that these people who claim our islands who claim our continent, who claim our EEZ, are the people who leave no freedom to their citizens who torture them. One striker died of torture, after twelve days with a metal block on his head and eighty attempts to pass on to him, against his will, a serum in the vein. He died of torture, that man! Use the comparative advantage and trouble them - I will use a trivial expression - in legality to all international organisations: to international courts, to the European Union, but, above all, to the European Parliament, which is also an institution, but also to the illegal Commission and to the Eurogroup. Do what Mera25 would do if he had the power. Thank you very much. Thank you for your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u77	Madam President, will you interrupt the sitting?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u78	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u79	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u80	He has a special meeting, Minister. Mr. Yoyaka, don't go to Stepma. I want to apologise...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u81	Madam President, you have announced me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Comrade, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u83	But it didn't go 14.30.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u84	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u85	Is it 14:30 an hour?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u86	Let me finish what I want to say and then you say what you want. But please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u87	It's not 14.30 o'clock yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u88	There are procedures. I've been notified that the Hall should be closed to get fired.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u89	You announced me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Comrade, please! I made an announcement to you and I know it. What can we do now? Tell me, what am I supposed to do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u91	But I would have spoken. Give me five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u92	I can't give you one. They told me we need to interrupt now and you'll be the first to talk next. You think I don't want to give you the floor? I already told you. Forgive me. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we must interrupt for the joint special meeting of the Standing Committees on Social Affairs, Public Administration, Public Order and Justice and the Subcommittee on Combating Trade and the Exploitation of Human Rights, the Special Standing Committee on Equality, Youth and Human Rights on the subject: 'World Day against Human Trading'. The members of the committees will address Her Excellency, the President of the Republic, Katerina Sakellaropoulou. The debate on the bill will continue at 7 p.m. with the first speaker, Mr Yoyakas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Mr Yoyakas from New Democracy has the floor for six minutes, followed by Mr Michaelides from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u94	Mr Minister, I continued the adjourned sitting and before I took the floor, Mr Gregoriadis was closed. For eleven minutes, if I remember correctly, we were described as an incident, which we did hear very good words about nursing staff, medical staff, rescuers. It is true, therefore, that we all agree that this staff, Mr Minister, is being made impossible in order to deal with all situations. I would like to say, however, Mr Gregoriadis, that a great deal has really been done over this period. A lot of staff have been hired. It can be subsidiary, however, it has given significant solutions and significant aid at this difficult time, which we are all going through with the coronary. I would like to say and stress, Minister, about the structures in Thesprotia, where over sixty people have been employed in paramedical and medical staff, as well as permanent staff, so that significant solutions are given. The point is that we can give much more and I believe that in the next few years the government will do so, and in particular the Ministry of Health. Ladies and gentlemen, access to quality health services is important, for two main reasons, because with it we are serving the fundamental rights of health protection and public health care, but also because, speaking of the public health system, it is proof that taxpayers' money is best exploited, that they are used efficiently and in return. However, ladies and gentlemen, in order to look forward to better health services we must previously have a valid, reliable, objective assessment of them. As we say in our health programme: 'What is not measured is not improved'. In our country it is true that we have always had a difficulty in counting, as an evaluation tool for a policy, a measure, a service, an administration. We say - and that is why we have voted for by society - that we want a performance assessment, we want a quality assessment. This is what we are doing in health with the establishment of the Quality Assurance Agency for Health. What do we mean, though, by: Quality in health? According to the American Institute for the Improvement of Healthcare, the quality of healthcare must be determined by access, effectiveness of healthcare, clinical care and the experience of patients from organising healthcare, from the best possible use of available resources, but also from the well-being of health care professionals. The establishment of internationally accepted indicators of quality assessment of medical and ancillary health care services in public hospitals is - and quite rightly - one of the statutory purposes of the new organisation. Here I would like to highlight the petition made by the legislator, not only in medical, but also in related health care services, a report which includes many other specialists, specialists, nurses, pharmaceuticals, physiotherapists, psychologists, dietologists, scholars, workers and others. Because, Minister, in honour of the parliamentary procedure, you have shown openness to proposals that will improve the aims of the new organisation, I would like to put a few points to your attention. Regular assessment, which is required by all health service providers, is provided for every three years, except for any extraordinary assessments. The most successful administrative practices are used to evaluations to be annual, so that one can better monitor and adapt more quickly to the data of both the structure assessed and the environment in which it operates. In addition, in order to better illustrate the situation of the assessed structure in the assessment team report, it may be recorded in addition to existing administrative and scientific practice, economic and technical practice, including, in particular, issues such as environmental practices and compliance with the general data protection regulation. The provision of incentives for higher assessments is, I believe, necessary for the greatest possible response and cooperation of health service providers. It is therefore important to implement the provision that the health structures, which have been distinguished, be proposed by the PPP, as well as the ability of the relevant Minister to decide on the award of the distinguished characteristics to public and private health service providers, should be proposed by the PPP. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Health has been extremely reflexive to the management of the health crisis and continues to do so, as is seen from the other provisions of the bill we are discussing. At the same time, the government's health plan continues to act. The establishment of the Quality Assurance Agency in Health is one of the interventions to evaluate and improve the functioning of the health system, interventions such as the implementation of e-government...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Yoyaka, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u96	I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. ...the health system, the evolution of e-prescription, the introduction of modern management models to public hospitals, as well as budget systems, costing and compensation of services and medical operations. As a Member and as a doctor, I myself welcome and support all that that will enable each and every of our fellow citizen to have the care they need, where they need it, when they need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u97	Thank you. Mr. Michaelides from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government and political leadership of the Ministry declare that the draft law, which we are discussing today, is innovating as it creates a new body that the health sector needs. The fact is that as far as its content and objectives are concerned, the draft law on the PPP does not begin at all. It is addressed both by the well-known and covered neoliberal concept of the New Democracy for Health, as well as by a worryingly repeated curiosity and a lack of a well-explained plan. I'll try to explain my allegations. First of all, as we have pointed out, the liberal character of the draft law is imprinted on the face of and directly in Article 2, which provides that public health structures will be assessed by the FPH and private volunteers. On the basis of this central provision, any other far too far too far and unsatisfactory are our concerns about the sanctions that may be imposed on public hospitals, health centres and other public structures, in accordance with the provisions of Article 10. This is a provision whereby we will, in any case, disagree with the fact that it is the stimulus of the indirect premium for the private health sector, through the creation of a favourable regulatory framework for the specific interests. Subsequently, the choice of setting up the PPP as a public limited company, even with a single shareholder, in addition to the obvious ideological references, is problematic and practical. For example, will the PPP be subject to the restrictions which exist as known under Community law on State aid to enterprises? But even if one does not share our criticism of the political targeting of the bill, he will certainly expect that the assessment of health services units and services should be based on certain specific criteria and be part of a specific regulatory framework. In other words, it should be clear what exactly will be assessed and on the basis of the wider strategic objectives. Here too, the bill disappoints this well-meaning citizen, professional or body. The evaluation criteria and indicators referred to in Article 8 are absolutely general, pre-formative and inadequate. The identification of the criteria shall be referred to a future decision of the Board of Directors of the PPP. At the same time, how will efficiency be assessed in the provision of health services based only on financial indicators or other cost-benefit indicators? Will staff shortages or logistical infrastructure be taken into account? Such issues are absolutely important and are referred to by the board of directors of the FPH itself, which will be appointed by the Minister, without any consultation with the directly involved categories, doctors, nurses, administrative staff, patient associations and society, without any transparency. In addition, one can see that the work of experts, who will undertake the evaluation, is important, although the selection criteria are therefore required for this staff to be transparent, rigorous and objectively structured. I could refer to a large number of other problems in the bill. I think it is quite obvious, ladies and gentlemen, with what I have just said, that we will not rightly vote against this bill, because in our view it is another vehicle of material and symbolic depreciation of the public health sector. Allow me, Mr President, to make one final point. Minister, since we are talking today about a health certification body for the public health system, I would like to inform you that many structures of at least the 2nd PDU - and I would also like to mention to you, in particular, primary care structures from my island, Chios - remain without cleaning facilities at the moment, since contracts with cleaning staff have been concluded. Of course, we are aware of your strong love for the assignment of this work to contractors, but because this work at the moment has been undertaken by doctors and nursing staff from health centres, for example Chios, TOMY, the Polyvalent Doctorate of Bolissos, I would ask you to speed up the procedures, which - as you know very well, we support - is the immediate proclamation and recruitment of personnel with increased moleculosis, which we have established, of the staff already in office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u99	The next speaker is Mr Avramakis from SYRIZA, followed by Mrs Skondra from New Democracy. Mr. Avramakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have said from the outset that I am in favour of evaluating every service provided by the Greek state to its citizens. I am in favour of evaluation, because I really believe that an objective evaluation system can reveal to the political leadership the problems that exist, the gaps that have to be done, the interventions that need to be made in order to continuously improve the services offered by the state to its citizens so that citizens feel security and recognise that the money they are paying for is a place. We want a social state for which citizens will be proud and want to finance it. The draft law, however, which the government brings today to assess health services does not meet the real needs of the public health system. It does not provide an objective assessment guarantee. It does not even provide a guarantee of transparent and independent operation. The choice to grant control powers to a public limited company created, where no rule of sovereignty is observed, but the Minister alone will appoint the board of directors, and this will in turn determine by zero, and without any condition, all the assessment rules, penalties and a number of other matters, prove once again that the Government of New Democracy is opening up shops with public money to serve part-holders to serve specific interests in order to promote its unique desire for public health, the entry of private individuals into hospitals and public structures. This bill is unacceptable. It is unacceptable because it contains too many vague things. It is unacceptable, because it provides full freedom to the Ministry of Health of the OHIM. It is unacceptable, because while the country continues to spend a period of health crisis, while hospitals throughout the country need immediate support with scientific staff, doctors and nurses, with assistant staff, with technological means and with personal staff protection, the government chooses to allocate valuable resources to the state to build a party shop, in which no one knows how many will be hired, what work they will do, how they will be paid, what their employment relationship is. You create an organization that will be financed by the Greek state, without depositing an organization chart, without tabling any details to illustrate how much it will ultimately cost the Greek citizen, in the Greek state. You describe responsibilities vaguely and provide full freedom to a group of people who the Minister will choose on his own to define the framework as a whole, which will have a decisive impact on the development of the public health system. The only thing the government has presented to date as a political proposal for the development of the public health system is the entry of private doctors into public health structures. You haven't learned anything from the pandemic. You were applauding the balconies doctors and nurses who gave and gave the battle against the coron. You left them unpaid for a long time. You have left them months to fight health without the necessary means of personal protection and you are now coming to give priority to setting up an anonymous company, which will define the framework of assessment, impose punishment, define the course of the ERC. You claim that there will be penalties when it is found that safety rules are not met and that human life is at risk. But at the expense of whom will the penalties be applied? Does the PPPY or the state have the right to punish a hospital with no masks, gloves and the necessary protective equipment for the workers of doctors and nurses? Who is responsible if these aren't available? Is it the workers, the hospital administration or the Ministry of Health's political leadership? The Ministry of Health could not find masks, gloves and uniforms on the market for personnel protection. They could, however, find them in private and charitable organizations and make donations to the ESS. Also, though, donations, which came thanks to the assistance of private and charitable organizations, were attributed a great deal of time to doctors and nurses who tried to fight against the coronary pandemic every day. Was that a reality that endangered human lives or not? Who is responsible for this, how is that evaluated and who is responsible? The Government announced a series of measures to deal with the coronary, including the recruitment of doctors and nurses to cover the gaps as quickly as possible. At Serres Hospital, with 40% of doctors' organ positions being vacant, they were recruited to meet the emergency needs just as much as an adjunct doctor and two nurses. Previously, the government suspended ten doctors' intakes launched by the SYRIZA government. Instead of completing the notice, which was in the final stage, he decided to cancel it and declare exactly the same positions a few months later. Since March 2020, Minister, the Hospital of Serres cannot perform regular surgery due to the lack of anesthetics. The lack of anesthesiologists has caused the postponement of a thousand hundred and twenty-three scheduled surgery from March 2020 to June 2020. In February 2020, the hospital stayed with three anestheticists, one of the eight who served in early 2019 and one of the twelve posts in the organization. The problem has been known since the end of 2019. You announced three anesthetics posts just a few days ago, on 13 July 2020. At least we hope that this competition will thrive quickly, because in fact, the presence of anestheticists is imperative for the proper and effective operation of our hospital. The subscribing of the departments and clinics of Serres Hospital is such that you can imagine, according to the President of ENNS, Mr. Papamichalis, they are licensed to doctors from 2018, 2017 and previous years. The fact that the hospital covers an entire population of about eighty thousand inhabitants, cannot perform surgery and are forced to move either to Thessaloniki or to private clinics. How do you assess that? Does he or does he endanger human lives? Instead of covering the real gaps in the hospital, however, you are trying to bring the contractors back and to expel workers to cleanliness, feeding and other auxiliary work, thus raising the operational costs of the hospital and degrading the services provided. We are asking for the contract to be extended to the Serres Hospital and to all hospitals in the country. We believe that they adequately meet the needs of the Health System and you should see this with a higher heat. How much are the organic gaps in doctors, nurses and assistant staff in all Public Health Units? Are their administration responsible for these gaps? How many gaps are there in the EAW? What technical means do they need and are missing from public hospitals? Do I have to know all this or just hospital administrations to give solutions? How are all these hospitals evaluated, and how are they responsible for requesting machinery, staff, but does the ministry’s government and leadership not provide them? Instead of covering the gaps, will you punish them? What your priorities are, to fill gaps and upgrade public health, as was done in the government of SYRIZA, where too many sectors have improved, and not like today when you prepare for the "mother" drive in your health system and your own people. In closing and concluding, I will say that the New Democracy has not learned anything from the country's memorials and bankruptcy. In fact, the pandemic and its management within the public system prove in the most persuasive way that the party excellent you define are inadmissible. You insist on privatising health, when the whole world sees that what is really needed is reliable and strong public health structures. We call for this bill to be voted down and for the money to be channelled immediately, provided for the PPP in the public health system for the recruitment of doctors and nurses and for the better equipment of hospitals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u101	Mrs Skondra has the floor from New Democracy, followed by Mr Chryssomalis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by congratulating the Minister for Health and all his staff on the preparedness and the way in which he managed the pandemic crisis, even though we did not expect it, nor did we expect it to be prepared, nor as a country nor as a health system. Congratulations, Minister! You have acquired our trust and our citizens. We hope and hope, of course, that we do not live it again, but, if we do not, we know that the health sector is in good hands. Ladies and gentlemen, it is customary to consider issues of economic interest and foreign policy as the most important issues of political interest. The global pandemic of the coronary and the response to the health crisis, however, showed that health and health services are of special importance. The images that we saw from television receivers in hospitals and intensive care units in all the countries of the world, after the outbreak of the pandemic, made us aware, of the importance of the supreme good of health for those who have, of course, forgotten. Just remember the self-sacrificial sacrifice by which all health workers, doctors, nurses, paramedics and all other personnel, even cleanliness staff, have managed to stand up to the circumstances. With the recent experience, therefore, in mind and having understood, as I said before, how important health services are, when and where they are provided, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Minister of Health Vassilis Kikilias presently introduce to plenary the bill on the creation of the Quality Assurance Agency for Health. The aim of this new organisation will be to assess the quality health structures for the services provided to patients. Because we strongly criticised anti-population, which just hears the word evaluation paints it all black, we need to clarify precisely the mission of this new instrument. The PPPY, with the sole criterion of the patient’s benefit and best international practices as they have been dictated for decades in the health sector, will examine the effectiveness of procedures, their technical integrity, safety for staff and patients, accessibility and ultimately the effectiveness of health services. Let us be clear: In matters of health it is at least unacceptable for some colleagues to try to find an ideological or party identity. The faces must fall sometime. The establishment of a structured evaluation on specific criteria, which applies to all, whether in the field of health, education, the market or the public, is the only instrument for self-assurance and progress. Anyone who refuses this is, in essence, seeking an unregulated society, where nothing improves and nobody is responsible for its actions. Ladies and gentlemen, when the Government and the Minister for Health are talking about an evaluation system for the services provided, in essence, we are talking about issues relating to the suitability of infrastructure, the functionality of equipment, the safety of doctors, nurses and administrative staff working at the plant, the adequacy of materials, the observance of good practice in the standardised procedures followed by laboratory tests and everything else relating to the proper functioning of the health unit. I sincerely want to ask: what exactly do you find opposing and reacting? Are you against the fact that all that I have said really has to exist? Do you disagree with the need to suit the infrastructure? Should the machinery not work, should there not be safety for the staff working? How can the state know that all this exists, if not through an evaluation process and measurements with specific, predefined indicators? You react. Admittedly, I don't understand it. It is of course your right to react and disagree, but in addition to this right you also have an institutional obligation, to justify your criticism and to explain to the citizens the reasons why you are responding to regulations which aim solely to improve the quality of health services and to strengthen the safety of patients and to present your proposals. The OHIM will then carry out audits and testify to all health units, public and private. The audit platforms will follow scientific standards and procedures accepted by the World Health Organisation in order to identify gaps and malfunctions in time. Well, it's not a bill that's going to punish someone. On the contrary, this is a bill that aims to improve. On this point, ladies and gentlemen, before I close, I would like to make an important point, in my view. This bill will serve primarily our economically weakest fellow citizens, who, if they are ill, have no luxury of choosing, have the financial comfort of addressing private doctors and private therapists to overcome any health issue they are facing. Therefore, the work that this agency will carry out will help improve the services for those citizens, who need it most. In our homeland, while we all know that we have one of the best doctors in the world, a system that applies methods of improving services does not exist. The government has recognized this huge gap. The pandemic came to confirm that we need a mechanism that will ensure quality in the health services provided to Greek women and Greeks. We are doing so, because for us the health of the citizens is a priority. You respond on a lasting basis and disagree on a constant basis. You are still opposed to the evaluation process. However, I am sure that at the end you will understand the correctness of this bill and of evaluation, especially for the services of the health system, because there is a possibility - which I do not wish - at some point all of us or some of our people to look for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Skondra. Mr. Chrysomalis from New Democracy has the floor. Please, hold the time, because it's the last day we have legislative work and there's no need to go like yesterday. Here, you have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. I would like, before I come to the bill, ladies and gentlemen, to comment on a few issues, which were heard earlier at the beginning of the meeting here especially by the President of Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos. I don't understand why this irritation. What's bothering him? The firm reaction of the Mitsotakis government, which forced Erdogan to take the fleet back and make tension degrade? That upset Mr. Velopoulos? Can't he, with this reaction, sell himself as politically wants his nationalism and his patriocacail? It comes and paraphrases the statements made by the Foreign Minister, in essence, thus giving an alibi to all these voices of the ethnic-minded, who want precisely a dialogue with Turkey, but not on equal terms and not under the right conditions. I would expect him to be more politically consistent. He came to tell us about the criticism in New Democracy and PASOK, the parties - he says - that they destroyed the country and ruled for forty years. Did Mr. Caratzaferis, to whom he was politically masturbated, come from virginity? I think he'll review, because people understand. Because I saw his mild criticism of SYRIZA, what does he dream of? Be the new Mr. Kammenos? To collide with SYRIZA? Rejoice him if you'll welcome him, gentlemen of SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u105	Cute, Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u106	But the people understood from this Tsipra - Kammenos conflict what happened, so let no one dream of repeating these conflicts. By coming to the bill, I do not understand, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, do you want to have an agency that ensures the quality of the services provided or not? Do you want to check and evaluate this quality? Do you want Greek citizens who trust the public health system and private units to be sure that both the facilities, equipment and procedures used in the provision of health are appropriate? Because, if you want that, then there's no reason not to support the creation of the PPP, no matter how much you disagree with its legal status. Understood. Any other position of yours simply confirms your well-known intolerance to the concept of evaluation, wherever it comes from and whatever it applies. The PPPY is coming today to do what is self-evident in a sector, not just critical, but vital to our society and we all understand it. The fundamental constitutional good of public health is a greater interest in society as a whole and as such must be ensured by providing quality health services universally to all citizens. Therefore, the establishment and operation of a body such as the PPP is not only necessary, but I would say an undeniable need. We therefore recommend that a public utility body belonging to the Greek State, owned by the Greek State, will be managed through ASP and will operate with the provisions of the CECE Law, an organisation that will take control of all health establishments through a number of evaluation criteria, based on international good practice and scientific standards, with the aim of highlighting gaps, problems or malfunctions in the provision of health services and their treatment. In fact, a roadmap, which will show us where improvements are needed to improve the whole health system and where they should be made immediately. Is that something we don't want? Is this something that the public health system does not need, or will we continue to think that the only response to all problems is to provide more financial resources? Honestly, if you have any leafy trees, don't hide them, we all need them. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis a year of its governance is constantly investing in public health and quality services. We all know that, we have lived through the first phase of the health crisis. However, it also invests in a well-structured evaluation of services, with a key objective of improving and improving its health and benefits systems. Our target is one. It has as the center of the patient and how the best possible services will be provided at a difficult time in his life. That is what we all have to bear in mind. So let the labels on neoliberalism, ideological DNA, gene, or whatever you want to say, leave the crowns for favor to the private sector and bad public or problem public opinion and stand on the ground. I would stress that the private sector is being assessed and will be judged too. If it does not - let us say - the right ones, it will also be its support and the conclusion with the public of the contracts it has. Do we need, yes or no, a quality assurance body for the health services provided? Do we need an evaluation of the services provided by the public and private health systems yes or no? That's what we have to answer. For us in the New Democracy, the answer to everything is yes. Today's Ministry of Health's legislative initiative takes this into account. If you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, want to hide behind invisible changes of relation and favor only in the private sector, if your proposals are general political plans on permanent and stable investment in the public health system, it is your right. We're judging. But try to look beyond your ideas, beyond your diagnosed denial of any form of evaluation and understand that today you are giving you the opportunity to do something good for all Greek citizens, to lay the foundations for a better quality health system for all of us. The Greek people expect you to explain your refusal, but this time with convincing and justified arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u109	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, with respect to my fellow Members and having followed other legislative procedures where, of course, a Minister is intervening again and again in order to respond to one, one of my colleagues, I, from respect for my fellow Members and the need and the mood of the Ministry of Health's political leadership to listen, you see that I am waiting for it and I will be placed at the end. But I cannot say, ladies and gentlemen, that you are out of the society. You are far away from what the average Greek, the middle Greek family, the sanitary. We have told you a hundred thousand times to open your eyes and ears in society to see what he believes about the national health system in our days, about what the situation is and how it applauds the choices that have been made and how it supports the effort that is being made. On the one hand, you start your speech, saying how much consensus you give and support to the effort that we make, in the midst of a crisis, for the coronary. On the other hand, you are being criticised - a criticism which obviously does not respond to what you are saying at the outset - by all trying to simulate the JRC. This is the policy of the JRC, gentlemen, and you are all competing with each other about how you will simulate the JRC, which is its definitive policy, because these are its political positions, believes them and says them every day, in every opportunity it has. All of you, close the eye supposedly, in the way our everyday life works, and on the other hand, you first of all want to compete with KINA. Don't look at me like that. You first!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u111	What's that look, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u112	Calm down, calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u113	Is that a minister's attitude?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u114	Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u115	He's asked for the floor. He has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u116	Is something wrong, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u117	First of all, I'm sorry, but I can't hear you. You understand why.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u118	My lord, when you took the floor, have I interrupted you? I've never done that to any colleague. I told you to start by saying that, for the sake of all Members, not only of the Parliamentary representatives, we are waiting here with the Secretary of State and we will never interrupt anyone, and we could very well be able to hear what has been said - and these are incredible things - to take the floor every three minutes. Every three minutes! I told you that all the research and studies of public opinion and that Greek society, the voters of all your parties and your own, are in contradiction with what you are saying here today in Parliament. As I promised the committees, after the contributions made by the parties' representatives, I proceed to legislative improvements. In the case of e, Article 2 shall be inserted after the words ‘on the basis of an evaluation request submitted by them’, the words ‘or by the EEAS as a social security institution with which they are responsible for the provision of health services to insured persons’. In this connection, it is also the second article, which will supplement what you have asked me, Minister, Mr Xanthi. Following the first subparagraph of paragraph 3 of Article 6, the following subparagraphs shall be added: ‘In a decision of the Management Board of the EEAS, notified to the Minister for Health and to the HRP, the categories of HSP of the EEAP subject to a mandatory assessment of their services to insured persons shall be defined. All EEA PSOs must have been subject to a mandatory assessment and must have been evaluated by the PPP in respect of their services within four years of the publication of this Regulation.’ Also, in Article 22 in the amended fifth paragraph of Article 5 of Law No 1316/1983, the final sentence shall be deleted and the words ‘, however, having regard to the incompatibility of paragraph 2 of Article 252 of Law No 4512/2018 with regard to the President and Vice-Presidents of the EOF’ shall be added. This is also the case, Minister, when it comes to opposing and not being able to have other proprietary properties, pharmaceutical companies and so on. We have also told the committee - in paragraph 1 of Article 3 of the Annex, the words'strategic planning' are replaced by 'the recommendation to the Minister for Health of the Strategic Planning'. Other legislative improvements will be followed, Mr President, as will amendments. One more word.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u119	I'll ask you a question later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u120	Whatever you want, Mr President. In a period of four months with more than five thousand hirings in health, with twice as many ICUs as these ICUs have permanent staff, training for five years, technology equipment, monitors, materials to be excellent and permanent, except those that have been converted, with the ECU doing an excellent job, with the ECU being an excellent centre, very high-performance and level training, and with all the effort to get this performance and provide possibilities from the packages, which come, the integrated digitalisation of the health system, which is similar to a 21st century system, the interactiveness of health centres and reform, which we will bring to the primary care of health with hospitals and Bi and the Ministry of Health, the central tenders by the EACH and the logistics, so that supplies are made centrally in hospitals and the last picture of the hospitals that you may understand - because they may be the ones of them - that they may be a contructual - because of the most important one. I will respond to one, one of what you have said here today from the seat of this Parliament, but it gives me enormous impression and I am telling you once again. Mr. Comrade, Mr. Grigoriadis, the "Laiko" has the best triage in Greece. I myself have gone, since the commander is excellent. Triage is exemplary. The hospital has worked at very high levels, and that's why he had no problem with COVID -19. At the same time, he handled all his other incidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u121	She doesn't have sheets.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u122	Because you say there is no sheets, so, Mr. Gregoryides, we signed a contract with the Association of Greek Shipowners and August 10, all the hospitals in the country, as they did not have in the Municipalisation, will have horizontally for six sheets, bedcloths, pillows, blankets and so on. Also, as we promised and humiliated because of COVID, in all the hospitals of Attica, starting with the "Penellis", "Evangelism", "Asclipio" Voula's contractors enter and make all health facilities, toilets, bathrooms on a very high level. So we start with the sanitary spaces, the cinnamons, ITH, MAF and TEL, such as the "Evangelism" of Voulas, such as the ones that took place in PAGNE. I can sit down and talk to you about what has happened in a very short time. It's too easy. I say this with all due respect to my fellow Members, from where they come all over the region. I'm not sitting in my ministry, in my chair, and I'm not moving. I've turned all the district and winter to the reference hospitals, in the middle of a coronary. Some said the Minister of Health is exposed to the coronary, which goes to the reference hospitals. The health fighters will fight alone in hospitals and the Minister of Health will be glorified by hiding? Now, we're going to all the islands, to the barren area, everywhere. We're going to regional hospitals, to the islands, to the farms, etc. There's an honorable man. There are shortcomings that we are running to cover with a plan and an excellent system organised by the Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the President of the Government and the Civil Protection: the conferences, testing. What can I tell you now? We are extremely, in relation to very rich health systems and countries as well. There is nowhere that response to the National Health System and these epidemics. They become multiple testing in the islands, smaller, larger in the capital of the islands, larger in the reference hospitals. It is too much for the possibility of crossings. There are seven hundred more sanitary people on the islands. It's traceable until the last of EAFRD and Civil Protection. No country in the world does it. Our measurements have nothing to do with all the numbers we see around us. Beside us in the Balkans are those numbers. Next to Europe is these figures. Below, in the Middle East are these numbers, or in North and South America. You come here and present an unrealistic picture. What for? Do you think that micro-politically that has anything to give to any party or any colleague? I've been where you are. I accept the fertile criticism. I have never said: 'The government will do'. I always say: 'Come on, ladies and gentlemen, to the topical questions you ask me, we can sit together and see what we can do together'. Where did you see party assignments and party holes and turns? SYRIZA's colleague, Mr. Avramakis, left. Is the four thousand by the OAED a party recruitment of the New Democracy? Aren't they the ones you put into the system? As far as hospital commanders, whose term of office ends or all legal persons are concerned, do you want me to remind you how they left hospital administrations, what policy behaviour or how last time? [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Maybe the legal persons, who tell me that the PPPY is an anonymous neoliberal company, gentlemen of the Change Movement, as well as of SYRIZA. Did you forget that all the supplies were made by the "IFET S.A.", with the president whom you had appointed? I chose this President, who is excellent - I mean as CEO - and all supplies we made from there. You used AEMY for the Santorini Hospital, an anonymous company you're telling me about ETA. Who's ETA? The ETA, who you disbanded and smashed, and you had him the last hole in the flame, and you were looking to find secrets with papers, things, stories? Did I ever deal with this? Did I get into the process of segregating powers, judiciary and legislation? And I set up my work with ETA, the ones all the previous governments hired. We showed them confidence, faith, and they did an excellent job. And in the Committee on Infectiouss, epidemiologists were all there interstates. And it's still. I respect them and honor them and ask them for their opinions every day and for their opinions. What rhysphetological recruitments are you talking about? What rhysphetological administrations are you talking about? What legal persons are you talking about? How do you understand the consensus we have given? There is the evidence, which speak for themselves, both the results and the health and policy that everyone has implemented, what you five years have implemented, the previous gentlemen of PASOK and the Change Movement for many years and we are now. Everything is judged by the result. Let me sit here and listen to you a thousand hours and note what I believe and believe it can move in the right direction. I'm the one who's bringing me the legislators with what you're suggesting. I'm not coming here to do a micropolicy. What do you think gives you to the real society out there? Do you think that the needs of the real society in health are met by what you say here? Is that what you think it is? But this led us to a vicious cycle of post-multipleism, which did not do anything, and made nothing to health with a hundred thousand clashes and one to put tripods on the other. I put my hand in the hands of help to you. Health's all about. I admit that the National Health System starts where poverty starts, where the other one has no food, has no pay and can't. We supported this whole world, in the midst of pandemic and coronary, horizontally and vertically. We have supported the insured, the uninsured, all, running at the same time as a thousand other health reforms within one year. Patience and expectation, respect for the speaker is not weakness, gentlemen. It's respect for the speaker. I respect you, and I honor you all one, one. Everyone can't say what they want here, and they can't at least document it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Villiardos, the Greek Parliamentary Representative, has the floor. Mr Villardo, since all the time you are entitled to, you have half the time, because your President spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u124	Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I did not ask for the floor before, so as not to interrupt. We don't get used to it. We remain polite. What probably bothered you, as far as Mr Velopoulos is concerned, is that he made an observation to you because you talked rudely to your mobile phone loudly and with the back to Parliament. I think the President has made an observation and not Mr Velopoulos. Mr. Velopoulos just mentioned it. Obviously, that bothered you and you said what you said. As for the really incomprehensible - for me at least - I will not comment on it at all. If you have not yet understood which parties have exaggerated Greece, which have been bankrupt with the PSI, which have sworn it for the next ninety years and which parties have become foreign colony, then it is your problem. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] As for what you said, Minister, to me honestly, you have surprised me. We are not used to you like this, especially your arbitrary criticism of all the parties in the Opposition, when we have supported all your efforts. I guess something else is bothering you, and it'll be at your ministry. Finally, really from what you said, did we need the shipowners to have sheets in our hospitals? Is it possible that we've become that much?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u125	Against the benefactors?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u126	That's enough, Mr. Comrade. You said enough, didn't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Golden, please. Mr. Villarde, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u128	On the subject now. While Greece has so many needs for national defence costs, economy, education, health, the government will establish another body that will assess the quality of health services, recalling that, when it does not establish a new body, it either re-establishes, as in the case of EGE or renames, as with the Space Agency. The history of setting up bodies, however, reminds us of the numerous public bodies which existed before the memoranda, of which several were in health. The so-called reform of the troika was not their abolition, but the closure of the hospital, costing us, among other things, the recent closure of our economy, which destroyed Greece even more. It is regrettable, however, that the government is celebrating the lesser recession, which predicts, in relation to four to five other European Union countries, even though it is aware that, while all countries increased their GDP by more than 10% in the past ten years, Greece's GDP has fallen by around 25%. So our distance with the others was extended by 35%. Is it possible to celebrate for a lesser recession? How far further can our economy go? Suffice it to quote the comparison with Romania in the graph that we will be tabling in the Minutes, in order to understand the size of our destruction, where Romania's GDP has risen over the past ten years, from $165 billion to $250 billion, while Greece has fallen, has collapsed from $300 billion to $190 billion, with Romania even exceeding us today. We must also remember that, while we are the leaders of the Balkans, with dozens of our businesses and banks everywhere, as well as with the hard currency once in the region, the drachma, we have become an impoverished pig. As the bend of the head is not perfect, so the retreat of the economy, with the recession in 2020 being forecast to be 10%, i.e. more than the first year of the memorials, resulting in all our deficits to the heights, such as the budget, our trade balance, the external trade balance, etc., as well as - the most important - of our public and red private debt, which is now out of control. Already, the fall in our exports in May was the second largest in the European Union, and we will also be tabling our tourism revenues in the first five months was -78.5%. Terrible sizes. Continuing to the draft law, the debate on the numerous and useless agencies has already begun since 2005, that is, it is not today. In this case, the following publications confirm this. In 2005, the following publication was published in the Official Journal of the European Union: ‘Repeals of useless organisms’. As we will testify in the Minutes, among other things, they were written: "It is obvious, for example, that, sooner or later, the enormous cost of operating many public bodies will be put at the table, the usefulness and effectiveness of which they are rightly concerned". The table on page 127 of the 2005 draft budget contains some of the institutions whose operation no longer offers anything specific, and in particular nothing to justify the money of the taxpayers who are being wasted. A characteristic example is the export sector entrepreneurs, the Export Promotion Agency, which last year had a deficit of more than double the forecast, when the country's imports are three times greater than exports. It was an article by Mr Papadimitriou in "Kathimerini". It closed with the following: "The waste organisation of the state with endless lists of followers, consuls, presidents, directors and other appointed "officials" will soon be placed in the Ministry's microscope. When the problems began, when Greece was overcompensated, the following was written in 2009: ‘Two hundred and fifty public bodies are involved’. I'll submit it to the Minutes. In 2010: ‘Concentrations of organisations and bodies in health’. Among these, the Ministry of Health proposed the abolition of the National Health Research Centre and the merger of the ICC with the National Centre for Social Research." I'll testify to that in the Minutes. In 2012, two years later: "To be fired 15 000 civil servants in 2012, with the abolition of organisations". Again in 2012: ‘Objection of two hundred and fifty-five abolitions or mergers by the end of August. Starting with 20’. Again in 2012: “The list of twenty institutions and organisations that are being abolished, including social care”. In 2013: ‘20 public bodies are being abolished. Finally, the abolition or merger of forty agencies provides for a new draft.’ Only one of them can understand exactly how Greece was working and how it works today. As a matter of fact, we assume that the government started the same ones, those that led us to overcompensation in 2009, where it seems clear, on the basis of too many of its bills, that nothing has been learned from its failed past. New organisations, new companies, jobs for the recruitment of the "children", enlargement of the state mechanism, despite pretending to be liberal, etc., as in the LAG today at a cost of EUR 2 million, as regards its initial capital and EUR 1 million annual grant, according to the General Accounting Office of the State. However, the General Accounting Office shall not indicate the number of recruitments or the operating costs of the new organisation. Of course he would. And in Article 12 it says that the cost of the PPP will be covered by donations, as well as by compensation for his services in the public sector. What exactly does that mean? Pricing for hospitals for the measurement of statistics. Don't we have enough statistics? In addition, Article 24(6) states that a reward will be granted for a successful assessment, which may be financial. Does it mean a reward to do one's work? Furthermore, Article 14 includes cooperation with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation regarding the infection programme. Again the Foundation. In this regard, we wonder how the Foundation is linked to all of this. Should Article 8 not provide the indicators to be used for monitoring and evaluation of units, as well as the limits within which they should range, for example, in terms of completeness? Sanctions in case of unsatisfactory operation of the units are also unsatisfactory. Indicators without effect and without sanctions make sense? Finally, will Article 17 take protective measures on the means of transport referred to? At what cost is the transfer going to take place? It is not defined by the General Accounting Office of the State, which we consider to be unacceptable, because costs can be significant. In Article 18, why, really, until 31 December 2020? Do you know that it will then end the issue of the coronary? It is, however, unacceptable to have deficiencies, even today in antiseptics, as well as in plastic gloves, imported from Asian countries. Is it so hard for a country that produces plastics? In conclusion, will I say that in Article 20 there has been a study on how many simple beds and IDs are needed? The General Accounting Office of the State, however, does not mention the cost, which is reasonable, since it does not know how much is foreseen. Shouldn't the number of ICUs be related to the freedom to operate the economy? There are so many questions that it is really impossible to vote on the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. I see there are several Members who have said that they wish to speak, but they are not in the Chamber, so I move on to Mr Ploir. Whoever comes, they'll talk later. After Mr. Plori, it is Mrs. Biziou and Mr. Papadopoulos. Here you go, Mr. Plori, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, we are really talking about a very important bill. I would like to refer to what the Minister said. I fully understand his indignation about what is happening. He's a minister who's not used to us that way. Here we have a ministry with Vassilis Kikilias and Vassilis Kontozamanis, who took up a very difficult part in the management of COVID. He managed to double the IF beds, the ones that received, over a period of time, to fully prepare the health system. Right now, in all the bills that have come, there is a horrifying micro-participatory approach and politics, especially in this particular bill. What's this bill doing? He does something that we should all agree on at first. Do we want or do we want to have an assessment of the services provided, both in the national health system and those who contribute with the EEAS? Because that's what we're talking about, the first thing. The national health system does not exist for doctors or for those who are there serving the health system or for the state. There is for the patient and basically for the insured EOPY, who must be largely separated from the Greek taxpayer. Why is it that the insured of the NYPD are? He is a man who gives his insurance contributions and wants to have access to health services. This is how EEAY was created and is a sovereign insurer. Here it is - if you want - the completely inexperienced conversation that we are having. I am constantly listening to SYRIZA referring to the part of the alleged state-owned private health. I mean, they're state-owned private doctors. Because private doctors contribute with the EEA and are paid with the EEA. The private doctors, who work at private clinics, are privatized, because the money they get from private clinics is money they pay to the EEA. Look at how wrong mentality you have: the money of the EPOY is the Greek insured person's money. How are private providers connected to EEAS? They provide service and they are paid for this service. Who's going as a patient? Does anyone obligate him? Oh, no. The person who has paid his contribution chooses, instead of making use of the public health system, to go to a private clinic. Where's the state house in all this equation? Money would pay the state for both the public system, EEAY, the insurer, money is also paid for the private clinic. That is why you barely dared to cut down contracts, and your dream was only so-called public health. You don't cut a contract. Because you too understood that these two pillars are working complementaryly. The public sector must be supported - and it is based - and this bill is now coming to assess its services qualitatively so that the Minister who is to be in this position knows that Vassilis Kikilis has prepared a body and whoever is in this position will know where the national health system is good, where he has problems and where to correct quality services. This is also being transferred to private providers, because the EEAS money - which private providers are not state-owned, but are using EEAS money - must go to quality services. Why, what's the bet? Have such contracts with private health providers to get to the best possible price the best service the one who wants to make use of these services. And we're talking about private providers that have big clowbacks coming up and covering gaps. You want to say cases like radiation therapy? So, does he lose the National Health System that there are radiation therapies that are done by individuals and can our fellow humans go to do these treatments? Does he lose out of rehab centers? It is an area that the public space does not have many such rehabilitation centres. He doesn't actually. Two, three. Is it wrong that there are private rehabilitation centres and can anyone enjoy these services? Many times, then, do not insult. Neither the public nor the private sector should be offended. On the contrary - and this is the Secretary-General's job - to deal with all this as a single project and through this project it can have better quality services so that these quality services can be enjoyed by who? The patient will enjoy them. With these thoughts we are now coming and implementing a practical and programme commitment from the New Democracy, if you look at our schedule, that we assess all services. In the public sector we will be able to move forward and improve these services, and in the private sector we will be able to get the money from the EEA to go over where the services are provided. With regard to criteria, can one seriously disagree with the criteria, ladies and gentlemen, on the safety of the patient, which comes into the transparency of the provider, that is, the provider actually does not steal the ERCY? These criteria are coming in. The fact that there will be accessibility, that hospital infections will be controlled? It is a matter that touches me more. Should it not be an indicator in the services provided, in order to improve also in the public system, to have better averages, but to cut contracts if necessary with EEAS, if there are private health providers who have different rates of infections than the average? So all that Vassilis Kikilis and Vassilis Kontozamanis do today are self-evident things that we should all vote on at first. Unfortunately, however, you have ideas that you do not really want the evaluation and the provision of quality services.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u131	Thank you. Mrs Biziu from New Democracy has the floor, followed by Mr Kotsiras from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, health services, domestic and international, are facing ever more challenges, which call for changes in the way we are dealing with the whole health sector. Such a challenge we have experienced and we continue to experience every day through the coronary pandemic, a pandemic that has made us reassess the necessity of the public health system, but not any health system, but a qualitative, reliable and effective system. The area of health has particular and increased complexity, as it is undoubtedly the most important modern social requirement that is no more than the preservation and promotion of the health of citizens. Of course, health is also a key sector of the economy through employment and its contribution to the gross national product of the country. In the last decade Greece has experienced an adverse economic situation, a time when Greece has highlighted the importance of the public health system as a protagonist for the Greek public hospital, both as a structure and as a human potential. Health services are a particular form of personal services from which the citizen expects much more than any other service. In the case of health quality is the first request for all involved and primarily for the patient and his family. What does quality mean for health services? It means providing the best possible care to the patient, i.e. care provided at the right time, ensuring the best possible outcome. From the perspective of the administration it means providing effective care in a financial and rational manner. For patients it means choice and access to appropriate services in the shortest time. The quality of the health care service is central to the health system in recent years worldwide. It is precisely because health services are of vital importance that the State should at any time know whether the services offered meet the intended objectives and objectives. The demand for quality care is constantly expanding within society and is not just a question of maintaining good health or preventive action and restoring health. Today, patients and their relatives and thus society have high expectations. They want direct access to services, effective responses to them, in terms of tackling the health problem, and also require adequate information and a right of choice. In this logic the most important tool to achieve high quality health services is evaluation. The assessment shall mean a systematic assessment of the degree of achievement of planned and predefined targets at a specific time, with the objective of confirming the achievement of those objectives, as well as the means and procedures used to achieve this. The final question of the evaluation is the improvement of the services offered. But improving health services is not a static situation, it is a dynamic approach within a complex organisation such as hospitals and health structures. The concept of continuous quality improvement is a concept that currently prevails in the health sector and goes beyond simple compliance with certain predefined standards. It concerns all functions of the organisation from strategic decisions to work in a specific structure in a remote health centre. It concerns workers' skills in the organisation's functions in technologies and production capabilities. The benefits of improving health services reflect both the patient and health professionals. The patient gains medical benefit after dealing effectively with the health problem. It also benefits psychologically since it feels safe within the health structure. Health professionals are also benefiting, however, as they gain the respect and confidence of patients. Benefits exist for health structures themselves as they reduce their operating costs due to early and effective treatment of patients. Ultimately, this leads to the economic benefit of the insurance funds that are a profit to the community as a whole. The need for a check on medical work and health services is time-consuming. From the time of Hippocrates ideological and ethical codes of conduct of the medical profession placed particular emphasis on ensuring the quality of services provided to patients. The health sector in Greece is a much-discussed space that has not been able to gain in so far as it can and is entitled to the confidence and satisfaction of the citizen. The health system is part of the social fabric and offers values more and above health. The broader objective of the health system includes justice, merit, distribution of health and financing costs, protection of the household against the catastrophic costs and the consequences of a serious disease. Responding to population expectations and promoting respect for human dignity. The pandemic of the coronary has largely highlighted the need for a public health system, a system that has sufficient resources, is efficient and obviously with efficient and quality services. However, this cannot be achieved without quality monitoring indicators, without evaluation of public structures, services, intellectual potential. If we do not want all of this to be abstract, but measurable sizes we have to have the mechanism that tracks them, understand them, study them and ultimately evaluate them. To have a health system productive, accessible and anthropocentric we need modern public health policies incorporating organised, coordinated and scientifically documented actions aimed at promoting the health of the population and improving its quality of life. The Health Quality Assurance Agency is a tool that in a systematic and standardised manner, with evidence and in particular with transparency, will assess the performance of health systems on the basis of international scientific standards and international indicators of quality of care services. The vote in favour of the bill means 'yes' to quality public health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u133	Mr Kotsire has the floor from New Democracy and Mr Papadopoulos follows from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are no doubt discussing this bill at a time when our country is in the middle of a very important battle. In this battle so far we have been winners. Our country has taken the lead worldwide in the treatment of coronary pandemics at health level. In this respect, many congratulations are due to the head of the Ministry of Health, the Minister and the State Secretary and the Prime Minister who, from the outset, set the protection of public health as the chief concern of the government and of the country. There's been a lot of noise. There has really been a titanic effort to support the public health system. An effort started from the first day. I myself in my region know very well that the headship of the Ministry of Health has taken on very difficult situations with closed health centres, which it has upgraded, such as the Centre for Health of Megaron. They can now and have 24-hour operation. The Trinity Hospital really stood a very powerful pillar to deal with the pandemic. The Greek society itself has given credit to a leadership that has shown speed, reflexes and a serious policy on a very critical issue that has to do with the health of our fellow citizens who are tested and will continue to be tested. That is why he wants constant vigilance in dealing with this juncture which has hit the planet. Today's bill is, therefore, about health protection, which, as a constitutional right, is protected by the editorial legislature and is also widely protected. It concerns the development of an anthropocentric health system, an integral part of which is to ensure the quality of the services provided. In order to develop patient-focused health services, the effectiveness, efficiency, technical excellence and accessibility of these services should be continuously assessed. In order to achieve a strategic objective of universal health coverage of the population, citizens should have access to quality and effective health services that improve the level of health of the population. Therefore, in order to implement reforms at this level and the necessary structural changes, and also to ensure the quality of health services, it is necessary to create a universal system for strengthening safety and improving health services. We all know that according to European Commission estimates and reports, a significant proportion of patients entering European Union hospitals suffer adverse events during health care provision: health care-related infections, drug-related errors, surgical errors, defective medical devices, diagnostic errors and inertia following laboratory analyses, errors and specific defects that directly affect the quality of the service provided. The European Union itself, with a recommendation from the Council of the European Union in 2009, as well as Directive 2011/24 adopted on the application of the rights of patients in the context of cross-border healthcare, has set specific standards and objectives to be addressed in terms of patient safety. So in the context of this European strategy, which has not so far been followed by our country, we are today discussing a draft law which is a self-evident aspect of the health sector. It is a cut that should have been made in previous years. Today, in these conditions of speed of political action, we have a draft law which institutionalises a health quality assurance body. With a view to more effective reorganisation of health services and equal access for citizens to them, the proposed provisions provide for the establishment of a body with the specific features mentioned. It will be a useful tool first of all in the hands of patients who can be informed of the health services and how they operate, their rights, their therapeutic choices and the actions taken by each body to ensure the rights of patients. Efforts obviously don't stop here. It will continue. There will be international and national patient quality assurance standards. There may be systems for detecting, reporting, recording and analysing adverse events in order to reflect the current clinical efficacy situation. To use new technologies and exploit the potential of artificial intelligence. And various special practices that will ensure first and foremost the quality that the Greek citizen will have in the National Health System. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece has undoubtedly managed the global health crisis exemplarily. We grieve for our fellow citizens we have lost. Obviously, we must remain firm on the objective to fully meet this unfavourable situation, but the quality assessment and safeguard procedures that actually exploit the extremely useful and quality human potential that our country has are policy actions which favour precisely this objective, the strengthening of the National Health System, the strengthening of the Greek doctor, the strengthening of the Greek society and, obviously, the safeguarding of quality health services. So, in this battle which is lasting, I would like to mention and stress that the vote on this bill is a small one. To congratulate once again the head of the Ministry of Health for managing the very difficult time our country has experienced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u135	Mr Papadopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u136	The issues of quality, efficiency, technical adequacy, evaluation, effectiveness in ensuring health as full physical, mental and social well-being are very serious issues to be assigned to a public limited company. Minister, you made us a reason before. In 1995, the then government of Andreas Papandreou instructs a committee of wise men to study the transition to the National Health System in order to propose reforms and structural changes that promote the transition. Do you know what happened next? Just a few things. And of what was proposed specifically for the primary health system, which was a gap found in the system, nothing has happened for many years. So the question we are dealing with is the transition with a strategic holistic plan from the current National Health System to the Quality National Health System. This requires the hierarchy of objectives, the use of national and European resources, the NSRF, the Recovery Fund, the European Social Fund, the European budget. It requires what the Spanish Government has done, which at this time disbursed close to 6 billion in order to shield the health system in their country, Spain. We haven't. It requires action over a period of five years, lasting and qualitative improvements in the staffing of the National Health System, continuing education and satisfaction of the officials of the National Health System. Look, very well, we stress the special role played by the officials of the National Health System, but we have not heard a word not only about heavy and unhealthy, we have not heard a word in order to have a pay system, but also about on-call and working conditions for the officials of the National Health System, doctors, nurses and everyone else, which gives a sense of satisfaction for these important things they do. Do you consider these matters very little? Motivation issues, in order to ensure that tourists' currents in our country feel security, that there is adequate services. The Government of New Democracy does not seem to be interested in the qualitative National Health System. It is of interest that its own idea of public partnership with the private health sector, the private sector premium, the service of private insurance companies, the assignment of the afternoon operation of hospitals, their laboratory equipment, their surgery, private interests, mergers, abolition of divisions. Look, suggestions on organisational restructuring issues, with proposals for mergers and withdrawals of hospitals have been made. But if you tell the institution that you're creating, you need some hospitals that are four in Lassithi Prefecture, they're three in Elias, they're two in several prefectures, what are you going to do? You will go ahead with the abolition of hospitals and departments or you will proceed with a plan, which says that their role in organising the National Health System in the country is special to everyone and can be exploited by every nursing institution, but giving it a corresponding role. So this is our plan, and you are really right to get rid of it because it is conflicting projects. If we consider that you are concerned with this transition to quality ESS, we need to come to an agreement on all of this. Of course, you have also received a number of suggestions from the Central Health Council which we are now seeing, on the basis of the question of its former President, to ignore them. Suggestions sent to you and related to many and serious issues, such as specialisation issues, issues of the award of certificates for public health, social medicine, medical genetics, clinical pharmacology, dental surgery and many other issues for the installation of defibrillators, etc. What do you make these suggestions? Featured examples of writing of government intentions we now have. EVY, for example, requires infectious and other qualified doctors of the ESH to cover health hotel units instead of organizing primary health care, with family doctors and health care groups, with reinforcement of local health units, with reinforcement of all those structures of the primary system that may contribute, and you are dependent on them being able to be made by doctors who have other tasks. EEAY announces clawback 25% to laboratory doctors and you've seen the open letter to the Prime Minister who puts various issues to you if they can withstand the labs at this pressure they take. You announced recruitment. What recruitment? Auxiliary staff, eighty-one permanent doctors, will you announce? You say you've been to a number of hospitals. We went with Andreas Blonde and other members of our team. What do we see in all this? And in their emergency hospitals and regular hospitals, because the normality in hospital operation has begun, there are serious staffing gaps which require here and now changes with permanent staff. So are we planning? Will we implement a five-year-old plan, which says every year that we will increase the permanent officials of the National Health System to doctors, nurses and other workers? With this report we think that quality assurance is an overall issue and that is our strategic plan. We hope that one of them will also mean, when you talk about quality, evaluation, because they are too serious issues to be assigned to a controlled by you - and you want such recommendations - a public limited company, about the intentions you already have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Christos Bukouros has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, you will allow me to speak from my position because I will not speak about the bill. I have asked for the floor to support an amendment I have tabled. After all, I am covered by the bill by our rapporteur and so many colleagues. Because I believe that the parliamentary amendments when tabled, regardless of their outcome, must be supported by Members in the House, I would like to say that it concerns my constituency, the Magnesia Prefecture. It is an investment, one of the many in our country, which is afflicted with the scratches of Greek bureaucracy with a clear responsibility for the Greek state and the administrative bodies. More specifically, Minister, you have the legislative initiative even though the issue is irrelevant to the draft legislation which solves problems in the health field, the whole case starts from the distant 1976 when an estate is granted to the EOT in the Good Magnesia area. In 1978 this farm was granted to the Ministry of Trade Shipping in order to become commercial shipping schools. The Ministry of Shipping, without issuing authorisations, only one FEK, which is attached to the amendment, builds a small port project there and leaves the project for schools of commercial seafarer. It returns the estate to the EOT, and in 2013 it passes to the GOAD for use. The terms of the competition are drawn up by the Government of Samaras in 2014. At the end of 2015, at the Government of SYRIZA, the tender is completed and thirty acres are awarded from this land for recovery. Investors are found, of which one Voliotis and the other Belgian, to pay the price - a million euros for thirty acres - but, paradoxically, despite the fact that it was referring to the conditions of the SWEDEN tender that this would be a mere concession for the sanctuary and arbitrary port project, this is not the case. I would say in the Minutes that this is the case, but it has not been done. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Boukoros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] From there on, the great suffering of investors continues until today. And we are talking about an investment that the local community wants, and it wants the legalisation of this arbitrary port project in order not to be arbitrary, with all the risks that the investment poses, but also to go ahead. I present in the minutes a unanimous decision of the Municipality of South Pelion from May 25, 2015, calling for the legalisation of the port project. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Boukoros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The HICP and the EBRD for six years, and despite the efforts of the previous Minister of Finance, which they have just approached in the last six months of its term, they have not been able to resolve the matter. Last May, Minister, I was rapporteur for the divestment bill. We talked to the Ministry of Tourism and said that the only solution to legitimize this thing is to get it to the Ministry of Tourism. That is to ensure the arbitrary property of the Greek State. And so we have come to the drafting of today's amendment which is completely in agreement with and which has been agreed both by the Ministry of Shipping and by the Ministry of Tourism. We have not succeeded until now, however, in receiving a complete response from the officials of the Ministry of Finance who have promised that a meeting that will take place tomorrow will be held. Why am I tabling this amendment, though? I am tabling this amendment, Minister, to show that investment in Greece remains a very difficult matter and really what they say 'to get into trouble with Greek bureaucracy' applies regardless of the governments. For we are talking about an estate which has never been exploited, a large part of it has become a dump in a tourist area and when the Greek public has come and granted this estate another insurmountable obstacle. If you look at the amendment, we say nothing more than to be granted to the Ministry of Tourism. From there on, there are laws to follow the predicted ones. There are laws to finally take advantage of what the Greek State granted. Concession is the exact meaning because it is for a specific duration. He has given it and we are here on a case-by-case basis to talk about it - it is a heavy thing to say - to defraud investors. Because when the terms of the tender are not incorporated into the concession, what else is it, Mr President? How do we want investment in Greece under these conditions to come? I know that you have spoken with the Ministry of Finance, Mr Minister, and I know that the amendment will be rejected with praise, but I am standing in the commitment of all the relevant ministers that it will pass by next provision and indeed, since I see in the Chamber Mr SYRIZA's colleague, Mr Alexandros Mikopoulou, I would like to express his opinion because it is a matter that has also been managed by their own government and the previous government and the current government. It is a major local issue, Mr President. We are talking about an investment of 10 million to build a sailing centre, which means that it will attract tourists of a high tourist income of 10 million, which has been issued building permits and environmental studies have been approved, and this is a project without funding from any financial instrument and without lending. In other words, we are talking about money, because we are talking here about many investors who make concessions to them and do not have the money and so on. Here we have investors who have paid the price, have the money to do the work, and we are stubbornly blocking them, all governments. Now, of course, I see a will in the political leaderships of the three co-legislative ministries. I'd say again that it's too late for something that's obvious and fair, I appeal to the current Minister, who is not responsible, but also to the co-rapporteurs, to finally move this matter forward and I would also like to believe with everyone's consent. What I would like to say in conclusion, Mr President, since I thank you for the tolerance, is that we local parliamentarians are not - if you like - and clearly. I'm not challenging my colleague. I say it because I see him here today. In conclusion, I would like to say that this is an investment, Mr President, which the local community is asking for, and I ask that the amendment be accepted, although I know that at least today it has no chance. I hope in the immediate future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u139	But it will be rejected after the Minister of Finance has said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, I would like the floor for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u141	We can hear you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, I would like to say that the government takes the amendment tabled by Mr Bukokouros seriously into account. It's documented and makes sense. I contacted the Ministry of Finance today and the Minister of Finance, Mr Stakoura, who will proceed with the services to the necessary extent, so that there is a documented view from the Ministry of Finance to see how this will go ahead, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u143	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment because my colleague has referred to...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u144	However, my colleague has not mentioned any bad things.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u145	On staff, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u146	Please, say. You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u147	Because it was right that my dear colleague has done so, and he has asked me to take a public stand on the issue he raised, and because I have to make it clear that we have always been in favour of safeguarding and maintaining legality, since the description of my dear colleague comes up with an issue of mature and mature integration, I think that he rightly calls for an arbitrary port project to be legalised from there and for the road to be opened to the execution of a mature investment which, from the point of view of our dear colleague, and in line with the information he has presented to us, has all the procedures provided for by the law in place. So in answering publicly to my colleague, yes, my personal position is that he must be granted to the Ministry of Tourism so that it is arbitrary to legalise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u148	Good evening, too. The Parliamentary Representative from New Democracy, Mr Zoe Raptis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy's position in an election was to strengthen the National Health System and improve the provision of health services to citizens. In previous years 35% of health expenditure was from Greek households, a proportion of the largest in Europe. The inequalities of access to the public health system have increased, since according to European Union studies one in ten Greek households was unable to access health services when needed. It is because public funding of a National Health System must be increased and converged with the European average, but it is equally important to stress that this is not enough, but it requires the efficient use of these resources. The structural weaknesses of the ESS are well known and they are exactly what we need to correct. This is where the Minister's current legislative initiative comes in, and I congratulate him, as he comes to fill a huge gap that existed in our country and at the same time a real need, the need to create a control mechanism, but also to ensure quality in health services, which is implemented by the establishment of this new body. The new body is a tool for implementing the necessary health reforms so that its structures always meet the needs of the patient. According to the World Health Organisation, the concept of quality in services includes indicators such as the efficiency of procedures and technical excellence, the safety of health services for personnel and patients, the accessibility to them, and the effectiveness of the services provided. All these indicators shall be reflected in measurable data that will contribute to the overall assessment of the functioning of those health services. The development, therefore, of the evaluation methodology can and will produce comparative results, and so the Ministry will be able to design those targeted interventions needed to improve the health services provided whenever and wherever needed. The PPPY is set up in the form of an anonymous company, a company governed by the provisions on public limited companies, but is a purely public utility organisation, since the Greek State belongs 100%. It will be supervised by the Ministry of Health and will be subject to the law on ECHO. It will be a useful tool above all for patients who can henceforth be informed of health services, public and private, of how they operate, but also of their rights and treatment options. The Agency will proceed with the evaluations of the services mentioned and they will be carried out in all hospitals of the National Health System, in the healthcare regions, in those hospitals subject to a special status as legal persons under private law, in all primary health care structures, but also in private providers on the basis of an evaluation request submitted by them. According to the bill, the competences are to record health services and inform citizens about their access to them, to develop quality standards for health services, to evaluate health service providers precisely for adapting their services to quality standards, to assess the health services provided by bodies which conclude contracts with social security bodies and, of course, to create and support education and training services in relation to the procedures for ensuring this quality. Finally, it is co-operating with the Joint Benefit Foundation "Stavros Niarchos" in order to implement the training programme in the field of prevention and control of hospital infections, a programme concluded under the main donation contract on September 6, 2018. The members of the Officerial Representation at the meetings of the committee responsible, but also before us, argued that it was SYRIZA who kept the ESS up in the memoranda and that a private company such as this body cannot make strategic planning and control of the needs of public health. Unfortunately, they remain obsessed, I would say, in a rhetoric that belongs to previous decades. As far as the ESS is concerned, I would remind the House that it was the New Democracy Government that checked the pharmaceutical expenditure by e-prescription for the active substance, that which reduced the prices of medicinal products for citizens, that was the one that provided for the universal coverage of the uninsured health care systems, the one that introduced the therapeutic protocols, the one that proceeded to central procurement for hospitals and the one that introduced and delivered a balance sheet to the public hospitals. It is a reproach for the National Health System that so far there has been no clear assessment and clear control of health expenditure through clean and transparent balances of public hospitals. On the contrary, it was the SYRIZA government that made little recruitment, little than what it had announced, as when it came to power it had announced over sixteen thousand recruitments and finally within four and a half years it carried out four thousand. And today I was impressed by the opposition's accuseing us of moving forward in their own notices, as if we could abolish them and build our own people. Ladies and gentlemen, let us implement these notices within your own governance. After all, it was the government of SYRIZA since they did not deliver many of the balance sheet hospitals. It was the government of SYRIZA during which three out of four hospitals did not provide a system for recording citizens' waiting time in the TLP. Of course it was the SYRIZA government during which there was no control mechanism for rationalising hospital medical expenses, which, of course, led to the growth of clawback. Finally, on your own behalf, central commissions have been deviated, since in two years you have only opened two central tenders. On the contrary, we, despite the problems and distortions and the shortcomings we have received and the unrelenting global economic crisis that has taken place in the country, have visited experts in time. The Ministry of Health set up a Committee on Liability. In three months' time, IF beds have doubled, and of course, as he said very well and Minister, we have prevented five thousand auxiliary, six hundred doctors, two thousand four hundred nurses and two thousand other health workers within three months. Our government and the Prime Minister personally did not account for costs in order to strengthen the country's health teams. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, I still personally cannot understand your refusal to accept an external evaluator and claim that this bill is so neoliberal. It makes me an excellent impression that established ideas and practices in other European countries, here you consider them to be something foreign and harmful, because they have the legal form of an anonymous company. As the Minister has already heard, the legal form of the anonymous company has been used by you yourself with the IFET, but also by other structures of the public health system. IFET so well managed the coronary problem by using the donations given by the citizens. But, ladies and gentlemen, this body, as we have said, will belong to the Greek State and has a clear objective to provide improved health services to the citizens. They are services which we owe to the Greek people. They're our parents, they're our brothers, they're our friends who need them. We are all, because you know too well, since you have ruled for four and a half years that, despite the superhuman efforts of the human resources of public health and despite their devotion and scientific knowledge and training, there are huge shortages in the organisation, huge shortcomings so that patients can find their position soon for the necessary medical operations. There are criminal deficiencies in digital governance that favour opacity, but also lack of staff training, an education that is very important, especially today, during the coronary period, to address patients' psychology. In addition to the above, the safety conditions in the work of those who feed daily on health are more imposed than ever. With this draft law, then, we are giving the possibility of evaluating and self-assessing health structures, so that we have precise conclusions and serious and studied interventions to resolve all these chronic health problems that we all know about. I cannot imagine that there is even one person in this Chamber, but also outside in society, who may be against the fact that there is actually available information to improve the services they can bring about. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government is stable on the eve of the election policy. Within a year of governance it changes the face of health. We have implemented, in addition to what I have just said, the setting-up of mobile health units to deal with COVID, the operation of 24-hour health centres, a plan of protocols and a single health coverage of the islands of the country, an electronic register, what is still missing for our patients, an electronic record to monitor patients diagnosed with COVID, so that there is also a guarantee of continuous care for these patients. And of course, as the Minister said, we made use of the courtesy of the Greek Shipowners' Association for the renovation of two thousand eight hundred and fifty-seven sanitation areas in all hospitals in Attica. You know, these hospitals where we're ashamed to go to the toilets, as they're ashamed of ours going when we're there as visitors, much as patients. Finally, we have reduced the prices of medicines by changing VAT and of course we have introduced intangible prescribing for people to finally serve themselves and not to torture themselves to get a simple recipe. Ladies and gentlemen, having restored the confidence of the citizens to the state to date, we will continue to work collectively, with the power and solvency of the Greek State, in order to implement our programme commitments for quality public health, transparent and effective administration of public structures, additional staff where full use is needed of the means of e-government. We put above all the value of human life and the quality of health services. I would therefore urge you all to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Ms. Rapt, and for keeping time. Madam as always! The Minister, Mr Kiilias, has the floor for one minute for the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u151	I won't be late at all. Article 1 concerns an extension of PPP - you already know them - for staff, test, etc. The EAFRD prolongation is also provided for in Article 2. Articles 3 to 5 concern arrangements for intangible prescribing and collecting fees from the EEAS for the visit of third-country nationals. Articles 6 to 9 are technical provisions and extensions for the adaptation of territorial boundaries of the IPAs. Article 10 concerns pharmaceutical expenditure. It is a very important legislative initiative with a separate budget for vaccines, which are excluded from clawback, i.e. a separate public health code budget. Article 11 will be withdrawn by my legislative improvement. Article 12 concerns technical radiological issues. Articles 14 to 16 concern tobacco and new tobacco products and compliance with European legislation. And Article 18 relates to ICU, MF and ICU as to what has to do with building permits, so that we can proceed with the construction of the ICUs, as we have committed. At the same time, with legislative improvement, I withdraw the provision for the ERIC - there is no longer any reason - and the provision for the medicine, which I shall bring at the end of the month, the beginning of next year, with two or three pieces of pharmaceutical policy, in order to be comprehensive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u153	One question, Mr President, I would like to ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u154	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, first of all I think it is problematic that you bring in far too late sixteen, seventeen articles. It is very problematic and I think some of them are very critical. In any case, I would like to ask a detailed question about clawback and the exclusion of vaccines. This cost of 150 million, probably increasing this year, due to increased influenza vaccination, etc., who is taking over it? Who's covering it? That's the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much. Minister, will you answer now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u157	Now, Mr President, why is that reasonable question from my colleague? The Greek state, the Greek state. The government will increase the code for the vaccines.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u159	No more, Mr. Xanthi. We're gonna have a dialogue?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u160	Wait a minute, Mr President, it is very important to understand. So to understand, 150 million is added to public pharmaceutical expenditure this year?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u161	This amount shall be added to this closed budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u162	Added as much as the percentage...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u163	It's going to be a ministerial decision, but that's it. It is a separate code to which this amount is added in order to...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u164	The amount calculated in the closed budget of the extra-private medicine is added to this amount.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister and you, Mr. Xanthi. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Ioannis Balafas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u166	Although, Minister, it is a great deal of temptation to refer to your previous outburst and to an aggression that you have shown, to which you have not been used so far, I will overcome the temptation and go further. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that the current government has a comfort. It's moving at high speed and accurate. It's comforting to go through the applause to the suppression, from the ozan to the damned. He's changing a story at a huge speed, like he's moving on a helicopter. The health issue, the health issue, is perhaps one of the most characteristic cases of this speed with which it makes mutations. A characteristic example? The Prime Minister himself, Mr Mitsotakis, who, about a year ago, - not ten years ago - reported on the abolition of pillars of public health on July 26, 2019. In the same interview he had said that in his own administration the administrations of the public hospitals will be based on evaluation and open procedures, not on fast-track and fare locations. A few weeks later, welcoming friends and "locals", who had even given assurances in exchange for a thousand votes, Mr. Mitsotakis himself. So much consistency and actions! For the time being, I would like to make a general comment relating to the public health system. There's a problem here. The pandemic highlighted the need for a public health system. Society now supports and supports precisely this public system which, despite what we all charge it, is undoubtedly the most reliable pillar of health in our country for the difficult. Some people may have pretended when they applauded the sanitary, but society did it because it believed it, because it wanted it and wanted it, because it supports it and will defend it by every means, and from this point of view I would say let this issue of the public health system be understood by the government. Again on the bill now, talking about health as a whole, the idea of quality assurance is obvious. Don't go break open doors. Health services, however, are, as you in particular know, health care, very specialized and procedures are complex. It's not enough simple instructions, directions. It must be ensured that everything is done qualitatively, in favour of the patient, in favour of public health, in favour of the public interest. I would say that in a position where there has been - to have a dialogue - there has been a criticism in our position that the quality of health services is, in the final analysis, a broad political issue and not a question of technology. This does not mean in any case lack of confidence or lack of respect for scientific knowledge. I'd say the opposite. Those who despise the scientific knowledge and warnings of scientists, particularly in the second phase of this pandemic, are not us, I think, the rulers and I hope the negative results are not significant. Now, as far as the issue of "PIOPY S.A." is concerned, a public limited company is institutionalised, of course. At the same time, it sets the criteria, controls and imposes penalties. Our opinion is that this kind of structure - the superstructure I would say - is not what we need. On the contrary, I believe that to speak of quality, you must actually move at a level very close to a reasonable horizontal approach to the daily life of the health system from the Ministry to the smallest hospital. We therefore argue that the idea, the form of "WILL S.A." serves ultimately a strategic objective, one of you, a philosophy of yours, - how to do so - that health matters cannot go ahead without public-private partnerships with private business, without a service market - and that is the question of public-private-private-private-private-health-sector. And explain. When we talk about private business, we're not talking about the private doctor. We're not even talking about the small private diagnostic center of Drama or Volos. We are talking about the large investment in capital that has nothing to do with health and any pain for patients. We are talking about such investments in the health sector, about such private business, which needs to be treated privilegedly on the part of governments, as, unfortunately, yours. So this piece of legislation has what I have said so far, but in addition to the wording of intentions and the declaration of generality, we believe that there are errors and that it is impossible to define the framework for its purpose at all. What we know is that when something remains - deliberately, impossibly, I do not know - unclear, but it is unclear, it is unclear, it will be made clear later on in the light of the intentions and political choices of the government. That's why we're worried. In our view, the choices for setting up a public-interest public limited company are incorrect, as is also a deeply incorrect choice for the distribution of funds to public hospitals, public hospitals, not on the basis of health needs, but on the basis of their operational cognitiveness. In some articles it is really wondering and I think it is interesting because there has also been a legislative improvement on the part of the Minister. It starts at the beginning of the bill. Because control will be applied to all public hospitals and those who are organised as legal entities under the supervision of the Ministry of Health, while volunteering for the private health establishments, in which, as you rightly said, many of our fellow citizens are appealing through their funds, etc. and accept health services. Why in the original bill, first and foremost, is there voluntary control in private health establishments, which are widely integrated into the health system? Why? In other words, it is compulsory to assess the public sector rather than the private sector and the private health sector. I think that is what we sometimes say privileged treatment of private therapies. Of course, with the legislative improvement that the Minister has brought, he accepts, first of all, that it was not right what he said in the first phase. So we were right, Mr Maraveya, to criticise and it was not just the same control and control as you said, if I understood correctly, in one of your speeches. The Minister admits that things have not been put right here and is introducing the proposals from the EEAS. Again, though, why don't you show bravery and rationality? I don't want to be a left-wing reasoning privilege. It must be a characteristic of all of us. The rationale requires that everyone who provides health services is inspected. And indeed, EEAY, Minister, will do control, and compliance will be within four years. Is that so?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u167	Checking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u168	Compliance with the result of the check. Why? Show here a bravery and a rationality. We are confused with the many amendments. Control everyone, transparent, etc. That's the clean one. We're getting into legal stuff now. Since the positive assessment will give certificates of excellence - once again the excellent ones - can easily understand that private treatments that meet quality standards will upgrade their position in the private health market while, at the same time, other private units with less good specifications will not ask for or if they request EPPY, they will go to the Greek bells. So this is one that we propose and insist that you take the next step, that we check on everyone properly, horizontally. There is also a question with the responsibilities of the PPP, which are public body competences and not a company. It is particularly problematic that competences should be entered. From this point of view, the formulation of proposals for compliance with quality assurance procedures means a legally binding opinion on the decisions made by the public administration in respect of them. There is also a link here with the powers of control and compliance of private clinics provided for in Law 4600/2019 where a separate framework of assessment and certification by local government has been established and operates. Ladies and gentlemen, every one of the governments and its supporters ask us this rhetorical question, believing that we are being cornered: 'Well, but do you not want the evaluation? Do you not want the worthy?' Ladies and gentlemen, it is true - I cannot say any more characterisation - hypocritical, comic to be mentioned by the government, which has a unique criterion in its choice of party membership and even worse in family relations. Mercy! Do you even have a General Secretary without the relevant degree and you keep it in place and you speak of dignity and dignity? Uh, where do we live? We are therefore in favour of evaluation, in capital letters. We are in favour of the real evaluation, not of the false evaluation that Mr Mitsotakis has experienced. We do want there to be criteria and indicators of evaluation that are clear and adhered to. The government bill allows them to be identified and adopted by decision of the Board. By way of derogation from the principles of the legislature established by the Constitution. Indicate as general axes safety, reciprocity, accessibility, good administration, etc., without specifying the specific tools on the basis of which these assessment concepts can be made measurable. In addition, tools and evaluation rules may be amended by a simple decision of the board of directors of the public limited liability companies, without the reasons for the amendment being clear, but also the obligation to publish them in a public form. Finally, there is another controversial article. It is Article 7 which establishes two forms of discrimination between public and private health establishments. It's these hospitals and clinics privately taking the excellence of the reference units. They will receive priority funding from clinical trials, while enjoying greater provision of equipment and research staff. This, in our view, is the concept of a reorganisation of public health on the basis of private economic criteria, which we do not accept. And that's our difference. Public health units will be treated as business entities producing efficiency on the basis of indicators of satisfaction and not as necessary structures to ensure public health and universal accessibility. So it is very likely that, on the basis of the established assessment axes, first-line hospitals that are under the greatest pressure due to distribution, cannot respond so easily to the criteria of excellence laid down by the law and are deprived of significant resources against others who will not have the corresponding need. And finally, it is the second major legislative improvement for the EOF. Once again, there is no recognition of your mistake at first reading, because you cannot say that the chairman and the first Vice-President of the IFO, such an organization, that it will be able to go to his private business, for example in the pharmaceutical industry or company to work or anywhere, and that it will not be exclusively employment. You fix it, you say it's those criteria. Why don't you take the right step? Such organisations must be full and full-time. Take the step in that direction. For all these reasons, we cannot agree with this bill, we are voting against it and the Minister, who has given further samples of writing - which is why I referred to the irritation of the previous one - must take into account that this is the political conflict. Sometimes you're isolated politically, like in the bill. There is no need to deal with it with irritation and embarrassment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u169	Thank you very much, Mr Balafa. Let's go back to the list of speakers. Mrs. Harula Kafantaris has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating this evening conflicts with two worlds, two dominant concepts. A conception of health, as in education two days ago with the bill which was passed and today is the concept of public goods. Health, like education, is a public asset where everyone has the right to access. The other idea is the concept that is unfortunately also being indirectly introduced into this draft law of commercialisation. So a product that is sold for health. The same is true of course in the law on education two days ago. We are talking about the ideological, I would say, perception of a neoliberal cutting of the New Democracy for the role of the private health sector, which is a whole thing for the bill. Even from the positions of colleagues of the government, the government's MPs, I distinguished: 'even within the pandemic', as the rapporteur of the New Democracy mentioned, 'the TDIs of public hospitals have been broken and the private sector has helped'. I would add: 'Definitely with unmistakable'. And that shows whether you want a preference, I would say it myself, and defending the private health sector. The pandemic of COVID -19 that we are still experiencing, not to the extent that we have experienced it, and of course we all wish and want it to end quickly, has proved to be important. It demonstrated the irreplaceable role of the public health sector and demonstrated this and became fully aware in the consciousness of the average Greek citizen. Therefore, the role of the public sector is irreplaceable despite the problems it has with subsistence. And here I will say that the recruitment we have heard from government MPs has not been permanently recruited, except those that had already been launched by the SYRIZA government. At the moment 40% of the organic sites in hospitals are empty and this is a serious issue. But I will now come and say that the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr Gutiéres, on COVID -19 and the pandemic, raised two main issues. The first is the relationship between pandemic and the climate crisis that we are experiencing and, of course, the need to leave the pandemic with a green exit from the pandemic, as it says. But on the other hand, the Secretary-General has pointed out this very important: the intensity of social inequalities at global level in terms of access to health and the right to health. Fortunately, SYRIZA had taken care of and all our fellow citizens had free access to the public health system - and you remember that very well, I address the government's MPs - as well as the abolition of the talios in the external medical services and so on. The uninsured, everyone had free access to health. But your logic was indeed pre-electioned by Mr. Mitsotakis for more than a year when he was talking about PPP in public hospitals, assigning the functions of hospitals to individuals. The specific draft law we are debating at the moment is, in my view, a lateral way of implementing neoliberal plans of the New Democracy and the creation of the anonymous company PPPY SA. Recruitment was carried out during the SYRIZA era in various ways - it was monumental times - around the four thousand nurses, as our rapporteur said. On the other hand, there was also a ready recruitment mechanism, which the current government used correctly and positively in terms of the needs created to meet the pandemic. I would like to say what we call quality in health. It is a great achievement to create PPP SA, which will control and ensure quality. No one can deny that they need quality services, no one can deny that they need to be assessed, but quality assessment and control are not punishable, but are how to improve services and functions. But here we see a privileged management of the private sector against the public health sector, because in the private sector it is optional, and this shows me that there can also be a problem of constitutionality in this regard. I shall conclude, Mr President, with this. Give me one more minute. Do you indirectly want to close some public health structures? A modern, efficient health system needs personal, structures, support, equipment. At the moment, you must go on recruiting. I ask: are all public health officials paid on time and especially in the COVID period? Apart from the applause, there is also a reward if you also want from the state's point of view to those who all call them heroes. There is a need for permanent recruitment - it is also yours - in the health sector. But I am going to put a question and address Mr. Kontozamanis with whom we happened to talk twice to a timely question I asked about the West Attica Hospital "The St. Varvara". I take the same answers from you, nothing has been done and I will ask: how will this hospital unit be checked qualitatively when there are no doctors? Or even the Nice Hospital with which it is interconnected, waiting for 6 and 7 hours of people, who do not provide quality. Why? Because this unit has not been put into operation. There are contradictions, you have to go ahead. What you told us on the news, Mr. Georgiadis told us for the same reason in 2013! I'm stressing it. And I believe that at some point there must be a correlation between words, declarations and works. In conclusion, I believe that there is a way to privatise health by means of indirect support for the private sector. That is your policy, the privatisation of everything, even of fundamental goods. Even the composition of the PIPE is to take care of some "definite", some of your own, half. I ask you, I'm not sure about that. But there is full transparency from this draft law on how the Board is composed. In conclusion, I would like to bring back what the Secretary-General of the United Nations said, that your policy on health is exacerbating and increasing social inequalities. Of course, you are in a way consistent. Why can't I remember that Mr. Mitsotakis at the ICU in 2018 said: "I can't imagine a society without inequality. It is contrary to human nature." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr. Kafantaris. Mr Constantine Maravegias (S). — (PT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u172	Thank you very much, Mr President, for giving me the opportunity to answer Mrs Kafantari for her information, because she is probably unaware of it. I don't know if you're in space, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u173	I'm not a doctor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u174	So let me inform you - because you mentioned this case flow beforehand to the private sector during the pandemic period - that if I have an acute appendicitis and go to the public hospital - I think the Minister, Mr. Xanthos, is well aware of it and will agree with me - the EEA will give my case a thousand euros as a hospital where I am going to go. If I go to a private body with the good morning, it's 30% down, so it's gonna be 700 euros. If we add a clawback about 55% or 50%, we go to 350 euros. In the same case, therefore, the Greek State will give one case of EUR 1 000 on the other and about EUR 350 on the other. You see, then, that the Greek public in this case - because you have previously been beaten - saves a large number of money whenever a citizen decides to address a private body. Why are you looking at me? Isn't that what I'm saying? Is the numbers untrue?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u175	No dialogue. Mr. Xanthi, you have something with the dialogue today. I'll tell you at the end. Please, Mr. Maraveya, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u177	EEAY didn't give anything to the hospitals. He erased them every year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u178	Let him finish, Mr. Xanthi, and then draw the conclusions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u179	I have given you an example showing that there are great differences. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u180	Me, too. Minister, if you don't want to make a fuss, ask time out at that time! Mr. Konstantinos Blouchos from Drama with her island.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the usual treatment of issues relating to the social goods of our lives, such as health, assures demands for quantity-related popularity. Often these requests are trade unions of left-wing origin without being excluded of other course. In addition, one of the causes of depreciation of Greek forms of trade unionism is the uniformity and leftover homogeneity. Mass appointments now, mass vaccinations now, mass coronary tests now: The term targeting as far as possible seems xenon-language. In recent months, the pandemic has not left Greece unscathed. The glossy development of medicine, pharmaceutical research, technology, institutions of hospitalisation in the most dynamic systems than us have proved to be dramatically deficient in bringing back disaster. So under this particular context of the success of the management of the health crisis and its multi-level consequences, in the surrounding atmosphere of the overthrows of our uncertainties of redefining our priorities, forced reversals and, in general, violent overthrows in our society, particularly the urgent demonstration of flexibility and adaptability of the same state, the state, that is, this legislation, also comes. Therefore, in the audacity of more than ten years for our country, this effort has come as the necessary prerequisite for a targeted and structured evaluation. Built up because it concerns the establishment of this body and is targeted because it aims to feed up the ESS, to lead with rationality to its improvement, clearly without causing harm - as you suggest or clearly say - without canceling. We leave that in SYRIZA's imaginary creative devastation. I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, with the excess of hypocrisy in this Chamber. And if it's not hypocrisy, it might be something worse or full of ignorance or obvious failure. Despite our findings on the bad state of the NSH over and continue to manage our misery, we are drugizing the present situation and plundering its perspective. 'What do you say now?', for example, 'Is this intervention needed now? Is it necessary? What conditions are ensured?’ or "To be done later, after it has been staffed, after it has been financed", after all. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is a substantial intervention and perhaps it needs the stepping-up that will develop to be the first. Let us not be fooled because the irresistible reality must stop ignoring it. I say this because the funds have been authorised - I mean the funds of our own self-evident, common assumptions and certainty - and that is why we have unleashed the ESS over the past few years. Because we are late, because the inertia forces have not served for so many years the lost demand, that is, the potential of the RES, by ensuring the necessary prerequisite, its effective evaluation and implementation and the search for quality parameters in this ERC. Mr Blonde - and I fully respect him - has implied something for an evaluation of their days. Has there ever been a substantial evaluation process in the ESS? I don't know her. There has ever been a clear reading without curtains of the ESS's speeds, which starts from the many speeds from the humble romantic workers in the region and ends up in the mere selfishness of the large centres. Has there ever been discreet, guaranteed, certified, rationalized health protocol management from the scientific community, associations, associations? We are all lost in the destruction of bureaucracy and indecisiveness and political cohesiveness. Is it - and I speak to the health officials in the Chamber - an unfavourable or not in short or many of the country's health map? We don't know? Do fellow Members need to link services to health efficiency, efficiency and productivity, and if so, has it ever been measured? Do we need qualitative and quantitative criteria in this? Ladies and gentlemen, the ESS is moving in terms of torture and self-determination. Could it - has been heard by the Change Movement - that is, did the Ministry's service mechanism not do so in previous years to respond to such an undertaking to manage and implement such an evaluation scale? We receive an ESR bankrupt, and this is not computingly and economically - which may be true - but an ESR operatingly bankrupt because the emblematic and incidental interventions may have been overcoming the abnormalities rather than alleviating weaknesses over the years. The essential and above all qualitative upgrading or improvement of the ESS requires well thought-out, rationalized and coordinated approaches and the current government is prepared to do so. However, this also requires concrete and solid pluralism and a very clearly evaluative attitude. With this in mind, we are talking about quality, quality of criteria, quality of human beings, quality of actions, constant examination of effectiveness, constant reflection in every measure, in every need, in every decision. I make it clear for those who don't know in the Chamber that I am a humble minister of medicine and who joined until the announcement of the last elections to the general hospital in my province. I am one of those who supported - and support - an idea and a philosophy of life, a theology, that of the service of a fellow citizen through the National Health System. It is unreasonable and bitter that a people should sit down in their flaws, become addicted to slowdown, to historical delays, not because of the circumstances, but because of the distorting attitude that is strong enough for them, to know their weaknesses, to spend them unanimously, even pretextably - you are talking about quality - to suffer from their consequences, but to overcome addiction and to lead massachism, to perpetuate, to lack self-conservation instincts. At home, ladies and gentlemen, rumours and so-called pure massism are emphatically promoted. But mass recruitment, we say, is an anti-name of quality and only as a word. We're here to literally temper as a country. And we in the political world must respond to the quantitative challenges and fight, how many recruitments you have made, how much money we must share, often inaccurately, phenomena that have led to triumphs of amoralism and petty. This bill is called upon to give the institutional framework through which the astonishment of the successful treatment of pandemic, at least in its first phase, will become a norm. If we want not to dominate our lives, not to be our society in the underdeveloped, but to be a witness of vitality, if we want the yeast that changes all the flour and makes it bread, we must set quality as a criterion that determines both our public and private lives. So because this government is not pluralistic and political aerospace is planning, and with appropriate pluralism it guides the future's targets for our society and the forced suffering to provide health services that deserve them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, too. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Mulkiotis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will only mention two minutes of yesterday's announcement made by the Prime Minister in relation to retrospectives. Let me say the Change Movement made a mistake. A press release, which it issued, referred to double medaling. But this afternoon, when other amendments came, it proved to be triple. It was triple to the retired, because it only concerns retrospectively the main pensions, not subsidiary and gifts. No way, a million and a half pensioners. Of course, civil servants are excluded. That was the message that came. And I would remind you that while the Prime Minister referred to 1.4 billion to be granted, the State General Accounting Office this afternoon referred to 900 million. I would like to say one more thing, which made me a bad impression, and I want to share it with you. I'm a fanatical, a fan of institutions. I fully respect everyone and, of course, much more respect the institution of the Prime Minister. But from yesterday's errand it was heard that pensioners were not affected by the coronary as the unemployed and other categories of citizens. This, ladies and gentlemen, in our view was a major challenge, which fuels social automation and poses a threat to social cohesion, but also to social division. I have to say this from the outset because some things cannot be said in Parliament and stay that way. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of a country's health system must be to ensure and improve the quality and level of health of citizens through prevention, care, treatment and, of course, always with the ultimate aim of improving the quality of life of the population. It is obvious that the concept of quality has different shades for those directly interested. Quality in health services means providing the best available care to the patient, i.e. doing what is needed at the right time, in a proper way, to the person in need, ensuring the optimal outcome. In administrative terms, it means providing efficient financially and rationally the distribution of the limited resources available. On the patient side, it means selecting and accessing the desired and appropriate services as soon as possible. The concept of quality in health services includes efficiency, efficiency, technical excellence, as well as safety in accessibility and development of services focused on the patient, in the context of continued care. It concerns the overall functioning of a department starting from staffing, management and organisational issues to clinical practice. The interpersonal relationships, the relationships between a physician and a patient are added to the above. Of course, these should be personal and qualitative relationships. On the other hand, five factors that need to be taken into account for the success of an effort to improve quality are, firstly, the leadership that coordinates the quality improvement efforts of the organisation, secondly, the commitment to the objective expressed by active participation, thirdly, the focus on patients, namely the users of services and suppliers, fourthly, the continuous improvement of procedures with the best possible results, documented decision-making, multi-accountability and group work. Finally, it is essential - and it is the fifth - to strengthen workers who form the basis of the system. They should be systematically trained to provide the best possible services to patients. As long as they are provided with the tools, techniques and support needed to be able to make decisions and participate in quality improvement processes. Of course, the leadership should disguise the needs of the workers, their weaknesses and their strengths. What is more, ladies and gentlemen, the EEA will do and with what guarantee. The central issue of the bill is the creation of an anonymous company. We do not know its effectiveness - doubtful perhaps - but it will exercise public authority by imposing sanctions on hospitals and health centres. I would like to make it clear from the outset that we do not say this because of twitching or reformist bumps. Stay away from us. None other, our party is clearly and firmly in favour of evaluation. Evidently important reforms in the health sector also bear the seal of the PASOK. Because, speaking of the present, we have to look back and forth. This exercise forces us not to allow the current health situation to be equated with the problems, distortions and shortcomings that exist - and there were - in the crisis. We have never argued that the changes introduced by PASOK during the governments have eliminated the problems in the structure, operation and services offered in the complex area of health. The truth is, however, that with PASOK for the first time, there was an integrated design that met the real needs and requirements, focusing on the emblematic National Health System. We are therefore in favour of the development of a public national health system with universal population coverage. We seek to develop an integrated network of services, with uniform benefits and guaranteed access to quality services for the citizen. The development and modernisation of the structures of the National Health System, the property of the Greek people, is a major priority for us. And we firmly believe that evaluation in the field of health, as in other sectors of the economy and public policy and services, is a precondition for improving the services provided. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, seems to be without preconditions for the implementation of an assessment. How is this to be assessed? On which criteria will be chosen by the experts who will be responsible for the registries. With what clear and objective criteria will be chosen by the bodies to be assessed. Will the criteria for the assessment of health service providers be appropriate and appropriate for the purpose of the assessment? These are questions, and the bill does not provide any evidence guaranteeing a proper design and an integrated and effective evaluation process of health structures. During the debate of this bill in the committees, both the rapporteur and the speakers expressed serious reservations and various concerns. Most of the concerns expressed, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, are also expressed in the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament, and this makes our allegations even stronger. Our objections are not only of a technocratic nature, but are also based on the political feasibility of the establishment of the PPP, i.e. a public limited company with specific characteristics. I am explaining with four specific questions and issues: Firstly, the provisions of this draft law are compulsory to be subject to the provisions of the PPP of public structures, whereas for private health providers it is possible only at the request of the provider, but this leads to unequal treatment between public and private health service providers. Why not be evaluated like public and private health providers? That is what the Scientific Committee is saying clearly and clearly. Secondly, the problems in the field of the National Health System are huge. It is subordinated, there are subordinated structures, sub-funding, anachronistic equipment and infrastructure. Under these circumstances, what are you waiting for? Will an assessment be made and what evaluation will be made of the quality of the services provided in the health sector? Have you imagined, ladies and gentlemen, the health map in our country with a visible chance of closing health centres and hospitals in areas that are degraded health, islands and remote areas due to a potential negative assessment? I don't want to say it's none of your business. Do you accept the fact that EUR 3 million is being wasted or granted for the creation of a public limited company instead of making it available for the upgrading of the compulsory public health service providers and that the public limited companies are mediators and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation? Fourthly, there is no guarantee - we will hear if there is - reliable and effective evaluation by the PPP. The Agency shall in no way be controlled in terms of its functioning, reliability and the correct way of evaluating it. Furthermore, there are no clarifications so far as we are talking about what services will be paid and what will not be paid. Even if the exercise of responsibility for the assessment of health service providers is defined as being directly paid, then it will act as control of sponsors by sponsors, but will also receive a fee for control, and so there is a question of conflict of interest in the person of the organisation. I'm not saying that. I read them from the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament and referred to in Article 12(1). Fifth: There was an issue in relation to the EOF. Mr Minister, with your amendment you have actually brought forward, you are now clearly setting out that there are issues of incompatibility. It is right, because you have adopted the proposal and the objections of the Scientific Committee. Did you, however, take into account the general remarks made by this committee? I have noted seven, but there are still six, and I shall refer in summary, Mr Minister, to one by one, to see what the reasons are for which we object. It does not seem clear, the Scientific Committee says, the reason for the different treatment between public and private health service providers. Secondly, there is no specific, clear and objective criteria in this regard, nor prior stages in which the selection process of the bodies to be assessed can be characterised as a process of reference to the principles of the rule of law and in particular as fulfilling the principles of transparency, administrative action, legal certainty and impartiality of the administration. I refer to Article 6. Thirdly, I refer to Article 8. Criteria relating to the financial management and administrative organisation of private health service providers are not offered to assess the quality of the services provided. That is also what the Scientific Committee's report says. Fourth question: You have established the exclusive competence of the Athens courts for the whole country before the Administrative Court of First Instance and the Administrative Court of Appeal. Truth, how you see the Dodecanese or Alexandroupolis coming and bringing actions, applications for cancellations, etc. In Athens? Is there a reason? Why is this identified directly by law? Fifthly, you refer to what I have said and what I have already said about the auditing and control procedure. A question of conflict of interest to the PPP person is, according to the Scientific Committee's report. I refer to Article 12, paragraph d. Finally, the sixth issue of the Scientific Committee that I would like to highlight, Mr Minister, is that the Scientific Committee is referring to problems that are being proposed and allow for the definition of qualifications and qualifications in the recruitment of staff not of a different decree, but by decision of the PPP or by ministerial decision. This, according to the Scientific Committee, creates problems. These are the questions which we have as objections, which the Scientific Committee also raises. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we have the feeling that patients are entitled to optimal care, according to current scientific knowledge and available resources. As patients and their rights come to the heart of the concern for health systems, it is certainly a strong need to strengthen the role of quality management in health services. It is the leadership's responsibility to inspire the vision of the quality of the services provided to patients, but through a process of continuous improvement that is not a threat to some workers, but an opportunity for professional and moral integration of all. We say why there should be provision for an anonymous company to carry out the checks on reliability, assessment, quality and not for an independent authority elected by this House, with scientists of well-known prestige, an independent authority, too? Other independent authorities would take any other action. Can I get an example? The Personal Data Protection Authority, of major seriousness and importance, which would also give parliamentary control to the Committee on Social Affairs, so that there was another relationship of confidence and another way and its role. That's our point of view. These are the issues that we raise, Minister, that is what we are saying and there are our objections. We believe and do not forget that behind the numbers there are people with specific economic and social needs. By ignoring these needs, all we will achieve is to irreversibly affect the standard of living of citizens, their quality of life, perhaps leading societies to bad results. In conclusion, Mr President, I will say that the Minister for Justice, who I see here, has tabled an amendment. To catch up with him. I am pleased that you, Minister of Justice, adopted the amendment we had brought in a few days ago. I'm very pleased. It is time to go to a change in the general prerogatives of bankruptcy. We can't stand these memorial bad situations we've had. Since it was our proposal, we are adopting the amendment and we shall vote on it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Mr Mulkiotis. I will give the floor to the Minister of Justice, Mr Kostas Tsira, to support the amendment. I would like to inform you, Minister, that Mr Karathanasopoulos has asked for the floor to speak on the amendment. I'm just telling you so that, if you like, you can sit down and listen to him, because you're one of the people they hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u185	For seconds, Mr. President. I won't be long. Ladies and gentlemen, I am in the presence of the National Representation to support the amendment to which the colleague, who was in Stepma, referred before with a general number of 449 and a special 73, referred. This amendment aims to clarify the provisions of Laws Nos.4335 and 4336/2015 which abolished the privileged classification of workers' requirements for enforcement and bankruptcy. The amended amendment states that those provisions apply only to those auctions which are based on an execution procedure initiated after 1 January 2016 or to bankruptcys declared after 19 August 2015. We actually come to clarify one, if you like, of a grey area which was in existence and which, as we all know, has been relevant to many cases. A characteristic is the example of the workers at the "Electronic TYPES". From that point of view, the distribution will be carried out directly, even in the case of the exercise of legal remedies and aids, and is intended to affect the classification of creditors in breach of the above true interpretation of provisions 4335 and 4336/2015. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, I think you all understand that - we do everything possible to protect workers' rights. I would like to believe that all the wings of the Greek Parliament will see the proposed amendment positively. It is something that I think we ought to do, obviously aiming at creating rules of law and clarifying a lack of transparency, but much more to show our sensitivity and our responsibility towards issues that are pending from the past and at some point we have to resolve them. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u186	Thank you very much, Minister. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, I'm not putting time on you because I trust you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u187	I won't be long. I shall only refer to this amendment, since the Minister is here. If I understood correctly, Minister, and of what you have said, and of what you have said, the fundamental change made by SYRIZA, concerning who are the first to be compensated in the event of an auction. The banks remain, and then the others follow. That doesn't change. What are you actually doing? You make an interpretative statement that for those auctions the process had started before the change of the law the previous regime, where workers for their contractors and for what they claimed, are the priority of an auction. Is that not what you brought on the substance? So since you say that you want to defend workers' rights, you could change the provision and restore the old regime. You are essentially maintaining the disgusting provision, the unacceptable provision brought by the SYRIZA government, where the banks are prioritised, and then all the others are simply interpreted as applying to these procedures that were initiated before the change, the former regime applies. Of course, it is positive for a number of workers, such as "ELETERROTYPIA" former workers, to be compensated for on the basis of your own interpretative circular, but on the substance of someone who now starts the process are banks rather than the workers. It remains the regime that SYRIZA brought. We will support this, this interpretative statement, but we will emphasise again that the framework needs to be changed. On this issue we will insist, Minister, that change should come so as to restore the right of workers, because we are talking about occupations. We're not talking about extra benefits. This has to come to the front line, and then all the rest of us will find the order. So, on the basis of that logic, we will vote for this amendment, but insisting on the need to abolish the infamous provision of the SYRIZA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u188	We continue with the list of speakers. Mr Dionysios Apipipe, from the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u189	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the multi-month and hard work of the Ministry of Health's political leadership is obvious that it has brought very important and measurable results to our country. In fact, in the midst of the coronary pandemic, the health system has made real leaps. We are, of course, talking about radical changes, about substantial and unprecedented reinforcement of health services in our country, about facts, about which some cannot be called into question. Greece has internationally become a model for managing the health crisis. The public health system has been strengthened as ever. But the government didn't stop there. The civil leadership of the Ministry of Health continued and continued the hard work. The government's aim is to best deal with the health crisis. This strategy of the government leaves Greek citizens with a public health system, a sound, operational, effective core of which will be the patient. This draft law is also part of this long-term policy. It is a bill that comes to restore a huge gap that exists in our country, but at the same time it also covers a real need which is not only the creation of a mechanism for monitoring and safeguarding quality in health services, both in public and in private. Today's bill is therefore a tool for implementing more general reforms and absolutely necessary changes in the health sector. Ladies and gentlemen, as a doctor who has worked for most of my life in the field of health, I am able to know very well and thoroughly all the problems in this area. As I also know well and the major changes that can bring about important reforms in the health sector, such as today. However, let us see, in particular, what this bill does, how it improves the current situation and where it is intended to ensure and control quality in health services. Today's draft law establishes the Quality Assurance Agency for Health. The establishment of this organisation shall aim at an overall assessment of the functioning of health services, starting with matters of staffing, funding, administration and organisation. A useful tool is therefore provided, first of all, in the hands of patients, who can be informed of health services and how they operate, of their rights and therapeutic choices, but also of the actions of each body in order to ensure the rights of patients. But you will tell me: What is the scope of this bill? In other words, who will be receiving the evaluation services of the Agency? The answer to this question is simple: All health service providers fall under the provisions of this draft law. All public hospitals, their decentralised units, interconnected hospitals and social care units, health regions, as far as their administrative function is concerned, public primary health services structures and, of course, private health service providers. At this point it is important to see what quality assessment of the services provided. It is quite simply to assess all health services provided to a patient from entering a health structure until the time of his treatment. For example, patient waiting times, machinery accuracy, patient satisfaction, treatment success rates, and other sizes that are perfectly measurable in health care will be measured with specific indicators. So, ladies and gentlemen, of the Opposition, how can you say that we are pushing the world towards private health? We, in the midst of a health crisis, have essentially set up a public health system that you have enjoyed. You had left our hospitals without personnel, without equipment, without even the necessary consumable health material. And all of this, ladies and gentlemen, I am tabling it from my personal experience. So you come and say that we are supposedly supporting private health, at the same time as we are running public hospitals with medical care and administrative staff, while we provide additional funding for health, we open up intensive treatment units and care facilities, and we are all looking to improve the quality of health services in all ways. In fact, you want to completely deceive the private health sector. But there are thousands of colleagues and workers. We do not in any way want to see what I understand and you will not want to send them to fire abroad. To make opposition, it is not possible to move to the other end. The private sector complements the public sector. Cut the contracts and then you'll see what's going on. It'll block the whole system. But because we cannot talk in general and vaguely, let's go to an example of what has happened in this period and let you know at my place the General Hospital of Zakynthos. He hired a hundred paramedical staff. At the same time, an IF was opened, which was closed for eight years, and has been set up to deal - as we call it - with coronary incidents, two molecular analysis machinery, we have increased the budget of EUR 1.5 million, we are moving on to the energy upgrade of the hospital and the digitisation of the radiological section. These are facts, the money I'm talking about and the changing of fourteen artificial kidney unit machines. With all that I have said, do you think the present government is trying to devalue the national health system, that we are moving towards some privatization, that we are supporting private centres, as you mentioned in the past, and I am referring to Zakynthos, that we are supporting private centres in the area that are not there anyway? No way. In conclusion, the Government of the New Democracy and the Kyriakos Mitsotakis has set as its fundamental priority the upgrading of the health sector and has worked in a coordinated manner and with particular zeal to achieve this objective. Today's draft law is another step in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, too. We continue with New Democracy and with Mr. Neocles Cretan, Lakona and Valkaniki in the eight hundred meters, with the national team. I'm talking about everyone you don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u191	From high to low. From Zakynthos to Laconia. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting on the fourth draft legislation this week. It's the last week of July. We are one day before the closure of the House for a few days, of course. If we go back and look back, we'll see that those days of July in the heart of summer were loaded and full of actions, running, struggling, sadness and pride, anxiety and hope. Agia Sophia again became a mosque. The Turkish fleet has moved threateningly. The European Union has decided on a large plan to tackle the effects of pandemic. Tourists at pan-European level began to move. The great work of Greek finally began. Where are we? What is our country, our society, our fellow citizens? What do you mean by public opinion? What is the Greek citizens' view? They feel safe and confident, ladies and gentlemen. And they don't feel confident because we have some magic wand and we turn the problem into an opportunity or a lie into truth, but because the truth agreement that we signed with the Greek people we continue to observe it in full and with our actions and with our words. We do not look at the problem, we do not exploit micropolitically the weakness of the political opponent, but we go in the interest of the Greek citizens. The Greek people trust us and we return their confidence in practice. This draft law therefore falls within the framework of this relationship that we have with the Greek citizen, with the Greek patient. The bill therefore places the patient at its centre, creates the quality control framework of the service provided to him. He eventually upgrades his experience in the National Health System. All systems operating within the social fabric must operate anthropocentricly. Enterprises, for example, at the client-centered level, for the health system. The patient’ s experience in Greece is influenced by two factors. The quality of the medical staff and the quality of the medical establishment's infrastructure. Both these factors are the services to the patient. The concept of quality of health service entered later compared to the industrial sector. In this draft law, particular mention is made of the research carried out by Dr. Aventis Donabedian, who developed a conceptual model of the "Donabadian model" to ensure quality in health services. Means such as efficiency, technical excellence, accessibility and safety are introduced with this model in the field of health services. It places the patient's experience in the light of factors that can be quantified and extracted with useful information. This model distinguishes experience in three categories: the structures in which people and infrastructure are involved, the procedures in which the organisation and the operating conditions of the agencies are involved and the results which are obviously the result of the services provided. Of course, there is a dependence between the three fields since they are organically the whole system of a health system. Quantification and quality measurement may be carried out in each category of this model. For example, the inspiring material of health structures has education and experience that can be evaluated and quantified. Also, the quality of machines, patient waiting time, treatment success rates can be put under assessment and crisis. Overall, in each category there are critical points whose evaluation and upgrade can actually make a system of quality, safer, more efficient and saver for the patient. So this bill is trying with the establishment of the Quality Assurance Agency for Health Assurance, as we have said, to transfer the theory of the Donabedian model to the practice of everyday life, to health units and to health service providers. It is a public utility organisation that belongs 100% to the Greek State and will be controlled exclusively by it. It will be supervised by the Ministry of Health while being subject to the 2005 DECL law. The Agency will be staffed through APA and its operation will be based on the State grant on revenues from certifications and revenues from the use of its assets. It will be based exclusively on evaluation criteria dictated by best international practices and there have been decades in the health sector. These are purely scientific standards and procedures accepted by the World Health Organisation. Obviously but worth mentioning is that the purpose of a favoured state is to perceive the weaknesses of its structures, to identify problems, to seek best practices in research, to establish it on the basis of upgrading the standard of living of its citizens and to go unrestrictedly on the road of the future, always having as guide the service to humans, to the patient, to the citizen. This plan therefore creates a framework for quantifying the quality of the services provided and ultimately the conditions for upgrading the patient's experience in our health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u192	Next, Alexandros Meikopoulou from SYRIZA, from the beautiful Magnesia Prefecture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much, Mr President. I hope you will visit your summer holidays in Magnesia. We'll be glad to accommodate you. It is really a bit inappropriate to speak in the last positions on the list as the reality is that almost everything has been said by the rapporteurs, by the MPs, by the ministers, by the arguments for or against the bill. But I think there's also a serious advantage. To be able to make a little more free placement and make wider remarks. Minister, we are undoubtedly experiencing a dangerous outbreak of pandemic which may lead to mathematical accuracy and a second wave in the autumn. So I think that this situation requires two things. The immediate shield of the National Health System on the one hand. I think, Minister, that we should be serious about upgrading the EGE strategy to control the spread within the community. I am talking about strategic upgrading of the EGE's capabilities by presenting a picture very simple. During the first wave of the pandemic in Magnesia, in the county from which I come, there was hardly any case. Zero cases. With the lifting of restrictive measures, especially in recent weeks, cases occur almost daily, especially in busy areas. The last one was found today or yesterday, if I'm not cheating, at a busy bar in the area. What's the matter, Mr. Kikilia? The Ministry of Health, but also the Civil Protection, so far, sees the work carried out by the EGE by tracking, i.e. the work of checks with tests in the community runs out of the automatic tracking process. However, on the basis of the new image, as it forms, it is no longer a question of tracing once the case is found. The main thing today is to find cases through mass controls. In other words, they can't find the EOD, they can't trace the cases themselves. Consequently, some basic and unanswered questions are born. What are we doing today, Minister, to identify and detect cases in the community? Do you think we should set up an organised network to monitor the spread of the virus in the community? Should we, Mr Contozamanis, now also talk about a regional infrastructure in the EGE? And I will bring you the example of "Achilopoulos" Hospital in Magnesia Prefecture, second hospital in the fifth health district, two hundred thousand permanent residents, especially tourist area. So today, with the occurrence of multiple cases in Magnesia does not have "Achilopoulos" hospital molecular analyst. What should be done today, with this up-to-date picture? Either send dozens of tests to Larissa with a two-day delay or get people to pay, of course, to private clinics to make the check and find out if it is positive or not. In fact, the last cases were accidentally discovered when citizens volunteered to take the test as a precaution and found positive in the virus. So I think, Mr Kontozamanis and Mr Kikilia, that it is time to talk about a strategic upgrading of EGE's capabilities and of course with a regional infrastructure. Let me come to that bill a little bit. Let us be honest and speak openly, not to ostracize. I think that the concept of evaluation is a bit of a abused but also a little afflicted. What are you doing? You're building a public and private health assessment company, you're calling it a mercenary, the Ministry impliedly confers its place on this structure and confers competences that are essentially the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. What's the separation you're entering? Private health providers will be checked on a voluntary basis only at their request, while all public structures will be subject to mandatory supervision. What is the problem if you do not share the view that you are introducing a priori discrimination in favour of the private sector. What's the problem? That until now, at both secondary and tertiary level, all public structures, not only in the Magnesia Prefecture, have a problem of subsidization. They do not yet have the necessary medical equipment and do not discuss what is happening to manoeuvre primary health structures. I, therefore, could accept - and my political area accepts - that the private health sector works jointly with the National Health System could, under conditions, also have a noble competition. However, when this informal competition between public and private health structures, where public structures are at a disadvantage with shortages in staff, disinvestment in public hospital infrastructure, deactivated primary health care and permanent sub-financing of the public health system, do you not think that this separation works against public structures? It is very simple to ask, and the argument is neither made nor pretended nor wooden. It's real. So I think that you are coming with a little bit of a hurry to assess the public health system, which has lifted the burden of pandemic, and even though it is overthrown by your own political space, it has met while we all know its shortcomings and problems, it now comes to be assessed by the government and this by a costly process, which does not really aim to improve the quality of health services. I accept the evaluation, as well as SYRIZA. But it is a complex process to assess when both structures start it, from the same point of reference. We cannot have private clinics, which already have high standards of service provision, compared today with public structures, which have been understaffed for years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u194	Thank you. We will close with the south and north of Athens, first with Mr Konstantinos Kyranakis from the New Democracy in which we wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President, for your wishes. I will not be late not to waste time on other colleagues, it has gone too late.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u196	Your friend has only been left, Mr. Zachariadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u197	Yeah, he's a very friend of mine. We were used to it, Mr President, especially in recent years but also as a political system as a whole, to see in the last days of the legislative work almost every year the governments bring in unpopular arrangements that bring down cuts, bring measures which are burdening Greek taxpayers and which the previous governments wanted - we have seen this and with the SYRIZA government - to get lost in the Austrian times. I think we need to recognise to this government the fact that these last few days of legislative work - which all my fellow Members have tired of and there is a reduced political activity - brings positive regulations. Yesterday we had a bill, which had tax reliefs, we had the brave decision on retrospectives for pensioners, and today we have a bill from the Ministry of Health, which brings a very positive and necessary measure. What's that? It is the organization which has been discussed and mentioned by almost all the speakers and which, in my opinion, introduces a concept which the Left is traditionally afraid of. Although I have listened with pleasure to my colleague, Mr Meikopoulou, saying that he accepts the evaluation and believes that SYRIZA accepts the evaluation, there is always an excuse. Always when the New Democracy brings a regulation for evaluation in the public sector and for overall implementation of its policy, we always hear an excuse from the SYRIZA. Let us see, ladies and gentlemen, how this measure works. Let us see if it can benefit patients throughout Greece who, instead of taking to your political offices to ask who is the best doctor and what is the best hospital for their own personal problem, will have a body that will direct them, just as it is in all modern decent states. So I think it is a very positive measure that the Ministry of Health brings. I personally tabled an amendment on the subject of the bill, which, if the Minister has accepted it, will now be given to doctors, citizens of the European Union, only by the Member States of the European Union, the possibility of taking part in the examinations for the acquisition of a qualification without the obligation to carry out a countryside service, namely rural ones. This, of course, will be on the condition that they sign a responsible declaration that they will not work as doctors in Greece and that in future they will want to do so, of course, as should all Greek doctors cross their countryside. It is a measure which will bring about extroversion, a measure which will create much more extrovertive conditions in the National Health System and which I ask the Minister to accept. Of course I am voting in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Cyranakis. We'll wait for the Minister. These are two Parliamentary amendments. We'll hang up with Mr. Constantine Zachariadis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to wish my friend passed by, Kostas Kyranakis. Minister, the outbreak of COVID -19 that has occurred in recent days and the partial derailment of pandemic control is a cause for concern and requires the state to be alert, enhanced sanitation measures, especially at the entrance gates and at tourist destinations. Fortunately, the pandemic still seems to have not increased aggressively, but all the epidemiological data - both in Greece and international models - show that sooner or later we will have a new epidemiological wave. And the question is quite clear: how can we be protected from this? First, can we protect ourselves? It requires a responsible attitude from everyone, first of all from the appointed state, from the government and not from the point of view of responsibility, as from yesterday we see from New Democracy officials to every individual citizen. Of course, no one should be irresponsible, but the state is organizing, the state is making the account. We are following the expert's and state's decisions. I want to be perfectly clean. Your own responsibilities, omissions, repatriations, your own mistakes, cannot and must not be charged to the citizens on personal responsibility. Unfortunately, with the announcements of the last few days, it seems that we are not doing well in the management of the pandemic. This is because, gradually, the role of scientists is diminishing and the role of all kinds of commentators of the pandemic's politicians is being upgraded. We are constantly going back, either with the debate that took place and the decisions on the number of people per table, the use of the mask in supermarkets, the issue of fairs. And now that it seems to be the difficult start and the safety of Lockdown is over, now that euphoria and triumph are backing down, the complete lack of plan or partial lack of plan appeared. This two-month period many fools tried to create the double public health or economy. There is no double public health or economy. If public health collapses, the economy will collapse. The health of all of us is above all. The good health of all of us guarantees smaller sinking and faster economic recovery. Of course, that is not a health issue. It has a number of economic parameters that we have discussed in the past few days. He needs honesty between us. The pandemic functioned and acts as a magnifying lens in the timeless problems of the health system. But it is also an opportunity to implement a large investment in the public health system that will enable it to respond positively to all modern social needs and challenges. We have the opportunity to invest in material and human resources. We need to make this investment. The European agreement, although weak in many, gives enormous potential in the area of public health. The government four months after the outbreak of the pandemic has a plan? You realise that we have reversely entered a new era, which has gone beyond the debate of the past on whether a public health system is needed if it is to be private, whether we are going to provide some services or if we are not going to give them, etc.Huh? I visited recently on the step of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and with former Minister Andreas Xanthos and Sisminoglio and Georgios Gennimatas in July. Do you have a picture of the hospital staff? Have you talked to the people over there? Do you have any idea that in a few years' time a large part of the staff is retiring? Do you know that the staff are old? Do you know the real shortages in logistics infrastructure? What about his payroll? Do you think a applause can always be maintained without material imprinting the everyday life of these people? Did you even declare a permanent doctor's post that the Tsipras government has not launched? Unfortunately, no. And obviously, Ministers of Government, we will not make the opposition to you, which you did to us on public health issues just a year and a half ago, but I was listening here this afternoon to Mr Kikilias and I thought it was another Mr Kikilias who opposed us in the period 2015-2019. Mr. Kikilias himself is even if he "gouglases" for himself what he said about the 2019 flu can remember how the New Democracy was oppositioned then. But that's not our question. The question is whether we believe in the public health system or whether it is considered obsolete, whether we consider health to be socially good, or whether some are still insisting today that it may be a commodity, whether we consider it and how we ensure universal access without social barriers. This is the big debate, and this is the model of public health, which seems not to have endured and is not bearing the burden of the health crisis both in Europe and internationally. And this is a great opportunity to change it. I read, and would like to end, the amendment which you bring to us on 30 July on new tobacco products. Minister, have you read what the World Health Organisation says and what your amendment says? Read a little more and in any case, more political elegance is needed than bringing it to us in the afternoon of July. These are issues that need debate, consultation and scientific documentation. We therefore believe that there is a huge opportunity for the country, but also for Europe, to establish strong public health systems again. This opportunity must not be lost. Unfortunately, we are in front of a second epidemiological wave and we need to deal with this coordinates. There is no need for'reflecting' or for communication to deal with the difficulties. Those who caused us, and we did well and did not respond in June and July to what would happen if Mr Mitsotakis did not govern the country, with the good first management of the pandemic wave, to rethink them, because these issues are not micro-party and micro-political issues. I want to believe they are the same, who take responsibility now for some derailment of the pandemic. I shall conclude, Mr President. He needs seriousness, he needs a plan, he needs confidence in the country's forces and he needs determination. The approach not to put the issues of places of worship in the public debate, will return boomerang. And those who advise these issues do not do so because they do not want to collect the costs, they do - in my opinion - because they do not understand, or even worse because they understand and respect, they do not love the great people who go to do their religious duties or worship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u200	Thank you. Before we go to the Minister, the rapporteurs and the special speakers will speak for two minutes. Mr. Xanthe, I think that's enough. Which of our colleagues would like to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u201	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u202	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to express my regret, Minister, that you wish to support you and repeatedly bring last-minute amendments to volume. Let me say that this is not an amendment, it is a whole bill and two cases I can make: either that there is no organisation or that you do so deliberately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, too. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u205	Mr President, thank you. Already for the Ministerial Amendment of the Ministry of Justice, our Parliamentary Representative, Nikos Karathanasopoulos, was placed. I would like to say a few words about the ministerial. However, the Minister did not tell us, or at least I did not understand, as there are two other parliamentary amendments, whether or not he would accept them, so that if we had to put them in place and say a few words, apart from the ministers. It's the one parliamentary, which is about a settlement in Karpathos and the other...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u206	Mr. Cyranakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u207	If you want, I interrupt to give the Minister the floor to tell us whether or not he will accept them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u208	Sure. And I'll give you the floor again, Mr. Lambroulis. Mr Minister, you have the floor for the amendments only.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u209	Mr President, it is the amendment to the Hospital of Karpathos - the number 442- that I accept, and the other amendment - the 451 - which I also accept. It is also the ministerial amendment brought by Mr Tsiaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u210	You're right, Minister, we have her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u211	So the two parliaments are accepted by the Minister and the others are ministerial. Look, as far as the Health Ministry's amendment is concerned, I would like to say that it is a small bill, if we compare it to the articles in the bill we are discussing today. There are twenty-five articles in the PPPY bill and fifteen - sixteen articles here. All right, two were removed. It's an extra bill with provisions different from one another. In fact, some of them have different objects - so to speak - within the same article. Now see what the problem we have put in the Conference of Presidents is. There are some articles that we, our parliamentary group, could vote on. We're in favor. In other words, we are against and we will go to the 'Paris'. In total, however, we are called upon to vote on the amendment which will be reflected in the entire amendment tomorrow - tomorrow in the bill as a vote in all the other articles. And here's a matter. In this direction, therefore, is'super','summers'. In Article 7, I take this, for example, that mobile health units have now been introduced with the coronary, the ones that have been introduced, to function as they have worked. The medical clubs, what do they have to do with mobile units? None! I'm asking a question. As far as the issue of vaccines is concerned, you may take out the rules that were in existence, namely by giving the Minister with a ministerial decision, but, in our opinion, this is our main objection, you do not take the restrictions which were in place and still apply to the possibility of vaccination for the whole population. We say free administration of vaccines and not pay either participations or from their pockets for children, for people who do not belong to so-called vulnerable groups and go by saying, for example, about anti-grass and go by saying. So, Mr President, on the basis of this amendment, we will go to 'the present'. They're forcing us that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u212	It is an issue that you have raised in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u213	It's not today. It is the same situation that is repeated in this parliamentary term as in the previous one. We had the same in the previous one. As far as the amendment concerning Karpathos is concerned, we do not, in principle, have the details of the clearers' control to place us in the whole of the subject or of what this amendment deals with. Much more in various cases legalised ex post expenditure has been the subject of complaints and categories of the press, i.e. the waste, the lack of tenders or the selective award of commissions, and it goes between the former or the current government parties, as they do. All of them are making legitimisations of this type, that is, as the amendment gives rise to the corresponding clearers' exemptions. The serious issue, Mr President, is the delay in the operation of the hospital, its equipment and its staff and, of course, the free provision of its work. I shall end with the second amendment. It is clearly a photographic provision and in fact, with a proposal, it highlights Greece as a flag of opportunity. We will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, I should like to say that the amendments tabled by Mr Kyranakis are 450 by Mr Ghikas and 451 by Mr Karpathos. 442 has been re-entrusted as 451.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u216	Who's the third? We haven't seen her!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u217	A third parliamentary amendment by Mr Ghika was tabled on tourist accommodation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u218	Mr. Poulas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I want two things in my dentistry. The first issue concerns the amendment. Here comes a new piece of legislation with eighteen articles, sixteen with the removal of 11 and 15. I would like to point out that all these last-minute amendments show, first of all, a mislegislation. Secondly, there are things that we had voted on during the Krone period. Because they are provisions relating to legislative acts between 20 February and 1 May 2020. Many of the things contained in the amendment are things that the Change Movement had voted for at previous meetings. At the moment, however, we cannot vote on them. The way you bring them, the way you bring them, you show that you continue with a reasonable emblem. You do things that I expected of you to have a series and consistency. You know very well that at the moment when the country is at the risk of a second pandemic and indeed things are not going so well. The cases go up day after day. You should have taken care either to have brought them before, to have studied them, to know what we are going to vote on. In other words, ninety pages have come today, and we need to express an opinion within two hours. I think it is your fault, and that is why we cannot vote for this amendment as a Change Movement at the moment. Secondly, I want to focus on this issue specifically with evaluation, because you think the Change Movement has changed its course. He hasn't changed course. The Change Movement is stable. All these years he has believed in public health and believes in the institutions that are part of the state. We were the ones who set up independent authorities, built the ADP. We are therefore the ones who have given credibility and trust to the Greek citizens. If you are now coming to say about the PPPY, an anonymous company that comes to make the evaluation of structures, we cannot agree to this anonymous company. Because we believe that the state, the ministry, can control and evaluate. We would like you to do that, and that is why we will vote against it. But not that we are against evaluation. We are always in favour of evaluation, but with institutions that are state-owned and not private. We do not need external evaluators to do the evaluation. I believe there's the ability in the Ministry to do the evaluation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u220	Thank you. We're moving on to the other Andrew from SYRIZA. Mr. Blonde has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, two comments in the overall debate, although we have closed them and discussed a great deal. I think that what has been said before is reflected and smiled. It's politically isolated today. He brought a bill, which is supposed to upgrade the quality of health services and therefore by definition is a good thing, and yet all the political forces, from different starting points - and don't tell us now that we have joined the JRC line - and with different thoughts end up in the same position. They're voting against the bill. In my view, this is a smuggling, so let us say, legislative and political, which you are currently in existence, and which is why we have been dealing with us a little while ago and with a very disgraceful look. You're not really used to us. You dealt with us with a style of gymnastics who forsakes the troubled students. Indeed, can you not now see the essence of political controversy and criticism? I think that it is unfair to have taken all this time, especially in the pandemic, to try to reach a consensus and a positive attitude. So there is no dilemma for quality or not, some who want quality and some who do not want it. We've explained it a long time. And I forgot to mention in my previous positions that we did not simply have a supplyable from the WHO, which concerned this very subject. We have also piloted these indicators and the WHO report to the Hippocrates Hospital. I had been there personally, we had discussed with the doctors, with the hospital officials. There was a pilot application of this model and you can get the data and see how you can generalize it to other hospitals. We were dealing with this as a matter of substance, not that you have now suddenly decided to deal with these issues. Also, these legislative improvements you have brought, in my view, do not address the criticism that there are different speeds. Even with this wording, the EOPY can apply for evaluation, and that puts a different speed within four years of the law being passed. It is another speed, in my view, that criticism is being reinforced, which says that this tool, which will be called 'PES S.A.', is unequal to public and private structures. What's behind this we've explained, we've discussed it. I do not want to talk about this. Also, the wording you are making for the strategic planning that, in other words, the FPH may suggest to the Minister for Strategic Health, in my view, is problematic. The "PIOPY S.A." can suggest indicators, result of quality assessment, data, provide strategic information and, of course, after the Ministry of Health, with its services, with the address of strategic planning to proceed with policy-making. This is not the major one, but it is a sign of a tendency that this body has, the anonymous company to intervene and define health policy in many areas. I have pointed that out from the outset. That's the one. The second relates to the major amendment, that of multimodality. This amendment, as all colleagues have said, has come late. It has positive arrangements, but obviously unblock cannot be voted on. He has some very problematic arrangements too. What is the positive arrangement? I consider it positive to regulate the extensions you are giving for the emergency measures of the MFF. All right, it is good that you plan a closed budget for the vaccines and to the extent that this is actually an increase in the closed budget of the Union budget of the 2020 extra-private pharmaceutical expenditure, it is acceptable. I hope that we are not dealing with a redistribution of expenditure from the other EEA budgets, that is to say, non-medical expenditure. I hope that's not it. That is positive, it is a step in the right direction. It strengthens vaccination policy. That's what I think is right. I also think it is right that this institution, which you are doing with the mobile primary health care units, is also right. We pointed this out when you brought the regulation for the special-purpose FMD, that we do not just need mobile sampling workshops, we need units that can provide comprehensive care, that can also provide medical services by other health professionals and are essentially decentralised and closer to people's housing and work space, to the community unit of public primary care structures. Now, what role can medical and dental clubs play in this thing - I fully agree with the observation of George Lambroulis - I really cannot understand. I haven't seen it anywhere, unless it's this expressed view by many mayors, that is, that primary care should go to self-government and that's a first step you're taking at this stage. Tell us to make it clear. This isn't about it. As far as I can see, from Mr. Kontozamani's nerves, it's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u222	Finish, Mr. Xanthi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u223	I shall conclude, Mr President. You were right to put the incompatibilities in the administration of the ATO. It is still problematic that, in such an important public body, which, in addition to monitoring medicines, their invoices, etc., has been entrusted to it by you - the chairman of the EOF and the chairman of the negotiating committee - is part of time. I think it is a problem, although you did put the incompatible ones, which somehow shield and prevent us from having strange associations. But there are two provisions, my dear Minister, with which you will allow me to tell you that you are making a regression. You've said many times that implementing the anti-smoking law was a reform. It wasn't a reform. There was a law that didn't apply. You did well to apply him, and we have said that in public. So today you are bringing us two provisions which, in my view, weaken this culture of implementation of the anti-smoking law. What are these two provisions doing? With regard to new tobacco products - and we know what these are - firstly, you are adopting the requirement of the companies that bring them and produce them, which were demanding that new products should not be authorised, but simply that the dossier with the standards be communicated to the State, etc. I think this is a step towards relaxing the framework. The second and most important thing is that you are also adopting their demand that there be claims to reduce the damage. This, my dear Minister, is a big mistake. The World Health Organization considers that it is completely out of culture of public health allowing health claims for any class of tobacco products. This must not be done because, in my view, it strengthens smoking culture, on the pretext that here I have a scientific document saying that it is a reduction in the damage. If we are talking about reducing the damage on medical terms, I'm sorry, but put them on the table and prescribe them or have a public body provide them, as we provide other types of damage reductions. You are changing the framework, in my view, in a problematic way. I'm telling you straight away. I think that this is a step backwards in the effort that has been made - and rightly so - by the Greek state to apply rigorously, with uniform criteria and rules and without exceptions in this context of the anti-smoking law, in order to foster culture that there can be no exceptions in some places and that it is not acceptable in the name of a reduced health impact on a smoking behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. Xanthi. The Foreign Minister, Mr Kontozamanis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u225	Thirty seconds, Mr. President. I would like to clarify this because Mr Xanthos referred to the question of the employment status of the President of the EOF. And I would like to clarify that because I have been President of the National Medicines Agency. By 2008, the President of the National Medicines Agency was full-time. In 2008, which I took over and then became full and exclusive, because you all know that until then...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u226	He had neither invoicing nor anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u227	... head of the organization were mostly university professors who performed their duties at the university and had parallel employment. Therefore, it was not always complete and exclusive the role of the President of the EOF.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u228	Yes, but he didn't have those duties and responsibilities either.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. The Minister for Health, Mr Vasilias Kikilias, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, thank you very much. A number of issues have been raised by my fellow Members, Mr Zachariadis and now by the health officer, Mr Xanthos, and I will need a little more time. First of all, let's start with the basics. Here I am presenting the statutes of the Bank of Greece, Mr Xanthi, because you told us that no public body exercises control, etc. ‘Recommended by this anonymous company ‘Bank of Greece, etc.’. ‘Assigns supervision of credit institutions, other undertakings and organisations, etc. 'Promotes and imposes the smooth functioning and smoothness of payment instruments'. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Health, Mr Vassilis Kikilias, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's not just REAR, it's not just AEMY, it's not just the DHS, it's not just our body. It is also the Bank of Greece. Also, to submit a letter to me by the Institute for Healthcare Improvement, congratulations on the PPP and support for our efforts. [[At this point, the Minister for Health, Mr Vassilis Kikilias, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And to show how isolated we are in this effort, to submit, Mr Minister, and to congratulate Mr Klouge, the Regional Director of the World Health Organisation in Europe for the excellent effort. I will read just one paragraph in English: "It has come to my satisfaction that there have been receptitent developments in the field of quality of car and patient life in Greece. May I offer my sincere connections on, and application of, this Vital reform now be integrated in a comprehensive law that requires directly to needs of the people of Greece...’. [[At this point, the Minister for Health, Mr Vassilis Kikilias, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is obvious that the New Democracy and the Government in this initiative for the Health Quality Organisation is completely isolated, alienated from society, international organisations and obviously heading in the wrong direction. Or not? In the end, ladies and gentlemen, is this anthropocentric and reformist legislation? Is it anthropocentric why does it aim to equal access and universal coverage of the population in health services? Is it because, in the middle of a coronary, we have achieved all this together, by hand, with the Greek society, together - I confess - and with a number of fellow parliamentarians who supported this effort? And I admit that once again, Minister, from the Step of the House. Didn't we despite all this effort stop our reform actions? On the contrary, did we improve this draft law on the quality of health services with a view to enhancing the safety of patients and citizens, which is why the clubs spoke in the way they spoke about this particular problem? Would this bring about measurable health effects, why is the safety of citizens our first priority? Is one of these, apparently, endosocomial infections? I have heard colleagues criticize the Agency for costing 2.5 million euros. Have you, ladies and gentlemen, calculated how much we will save as a state and will we be able to reinvest in health from lowering intra-Holy infections? Let me remind you that it was your government that managed to lose this donation from the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation and get out of the program the intra-societal infections. The donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for intra-Holy infections is linked to this initiative. And for the wound, of course. So, in the midst of a pandemic and while one would expect - so has it been done in all health systems - that we are dealing with a crucial issue of public health, a pandemic to protect our fellow citizens, ultimately in the Ministry of Health, beyond what my fellow Members of the New Democracy have said - which I thank very much for their support and their suggestions to the bill - are running other reform issues? Did the health advantage turn it into a national acquis? Are quality at the core of our philosophy, and what you say about neoliberalism, etc., are they not based? Why not assess the effectiveness, efficiency, technical excellence, accessibility of all to these services? Or is it not inconsistent with the government and the political leadership of the Ministry of Health and did not hear you from what you have proposed, in order that, with legislative improvements, we can be able to find ourselves, meet them, that there is a consensus on what you have said and that I always take into account in every bill that I have brought. So it's an anonymous company. Who owns the anonymous company? I also heard 'whoever will have her shares'. The Minister of Finance. Who will be the sole owner of the company and shareholder? The Greek public. Very good. According to international scientific standards, with international quality assessment indicators of health services. And what criteria? In the light of the safety of health services, effectiveness, commonly accepted scientific indicators, which demonstrate that therapies of patients are being applied and are based on best clinical practices, which achieve the best possible results, response, ambulance approach, respect and guidance for the safeguarding of human dignity, accessibility - both of you have mentioned - and good administration, resource management, economic and human rights, etc. Am I getting past them fast for what? To return to the heart and soul of him for which we are doing public work, as public officials, you and we all, and we have sworn as MPs, ministers and civil servants, to serve the citizen and especially the one who does not, cannot, the patients. The Greek State has so far demonstrated that it has not been able to assess health services qualitatively. I was told by my colleague - I respect him and honour him - 'Why not be done exclusively by the Ministry of Health and the Greek State'. You've had all the time, gentlemen, you and you. You've had years, not time. You've had years. You went, you came, you went again, you came back. Where is the health quality assessment? We have brought her as a legislature and we will implement it and we are very proud of it. Not isolated, we are not, but we will find huge teammate and ally the Greek citizen, the middle Greek family, the poor, those who do not have and cannot. They go to hospitals and tell me the problems they face in an organization with external evaluators, of course, the best. Who will you find, Minister of Health? The best. Who are the best? Is Panagiotopoulos? Is it Cotanid? Is that Chiodra? From northern Greece? From southern Greece? Who are our scientists? The best. We want the best external evaluators in an organisation, to check quality, to check how clinics perform, whether they greasy the incidents, who are the indicators, who are the scientists, who proves who works properly or not in a health unit, to come and bring us proposals. You have been hurt, Minister, by proposing the strategy to be recommended by an agency. I changed it. He won't set up a strategy. It will be recommended to the Minister for Health. You don't want that either. Now, "it's not Yannis, it's Yannakis". So, if an organisation so important, with all the scientific indicators, can only recommend to the political leadership - to the political leadership in question, here is a tool that you or others will find tomorrow - who are those indicators that are to be taken into account in its policy that is considered to be a measurable one? It is a tool, ladies and gentlemen, in the hands of all patients. And the World Health Organisation with which you cooperated - you say - but it gives us congratulations, that is what it says, with a view to universal health coverage of the population and our citizens having access to quality, effective health services. And first of all, gentlemen, in my view, the first quality indicator is the dignity of the Greek patient. We therefore enable this body to have a useful tool in the hands of patients, which can be informed of health services and how they operate, of their rights, of their therapeutic choices and of the actions taken by each body to safeguard the rights of patients. Thus, it is achieved by the most scientifically documented approach to formulating health policies based on scientific studies and data. In this way, at last, in 2020, we can as a country design the necessary structural reforms that will shape the 21st-century National Health System, based on the strengthening of patient safety and the continuous improvement of health services. You're asking me and you're telling me: will you be central to the 21st-century ESS? But it has already started in motion and even in the midst of a pandemic, with a thousand two hundred IFs, "private" of the Greek people, with the ultimate support of the latest technology, the best scientists. Guaranteed doctors, nurses and other staff at the service of citizens, best technical equipment, top technology. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I still need ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u231	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u232	The digitisation of health, which comes from the programmes that we will implement from the NSRP and the investment programme. The electronic file, electronic exams, interoperability and interactivity. Reform in primary health care, upgrades in our hospitals, health networks you will see how they will work. There are already very large reforms. Staff, which we hired in the middle of a coronary, five thousand plus people, doctors, nurses, other staff. Some Members have spoken rather degradingly about a number of six hundred - seven hundred colleagues who were hired to the ESS hospitals, considering that they are few. Only Mr. Blondie used the PHS with Mr. Polakis to hire the doctors back then. So long is the process. And we, in order to hire permanent staff now, with the fact that my team made an electronic platform and the day after, we sign with a hundred doctors, the ones who were now, shortened, gathering the time that existed and discomforting every time the National Health System in the midst of a crisis and a coronary. Six months, ladies and gentlemen! Tomorrow will be the first signatures, a hundred doctors, followed by another hundred. Inside the crisis, within a year of our administration! Never, ladies and gentlemen, have I moved your hand in the sight of a teacher to a student. That's not my culture, that's not my education from my home, and that's not my worthy code. On the contrary, I have shown myself in the crisis, and I think I have also been criticised by some. My culture is completely different. Because I see there's not much time, I'm going to smoke. Really, ladies, do you see that we're taking a step back? First of all, I would remind you of the situation. Ministers were smoking inside the Ministry of Health in front of the Health Commissioner! That was the situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u233	That's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u234	If it's not the case, if the photo was a modulated product, I'm withdrawing it. There was a wishful desire, perhaps sometime in the future to move on to a reform very important, such as the application of the anti-smoking law, which you said today: Come on, okay, you came and applied the anti-smoking law. If that were the case, Minister, you and everyone else in the past twenty years why have you not been able to apply it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u235	I didn't say that. I said, you did well. I didn't underestimate it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u236	So it was an excellent reform of public health. I brought a public health bill - who would have imagined it! - before the pandemic. You remember that we discussed the role of the EGE as the arm of public health and how important the role that is being played was. Some people questioned that. He's come to prove himself. So we speak with action, not with words. And I'm going to remind you a little, so you can tell me very much if the provisions on tobacco are a step back or a step forward, which we have brought, what we were talking about in this bill on public health. We said that this regulation was intended to adopt the fourth axis of the National Action Plan to Combat Smoking, which is none other than the attempt to reduce the damage caused by smoking. It is a fact that, despite attempts, some are unable to stop the harmful smoking habit. So I can explain to you, Minister, why we have succeeded where others failed. Because we are saying very well, horizontally and evenly to all tons - we have campaigned for this - for the enormous damage to smoking, we understand that some choose as a conscious choice to smoke and we have created an alliance of smokers and non-smokers for the sake of our children and the next generation. We have explained to the former that they have rights, we have shielded them by law and we have applied them to both the latter that they have rights, but not at the expense of the former. It is their right if they want to smoke, but we will explain where, how, so that they do not do so by burdening everyone else. If they want to, there's smoking surgery in our hospitals. And scientifically through the committees, the services of the Ministry of Health, we can count only after their approval and with the studies that exist - there is a FDA now in America in particular, which says that the most modern-day tobacco, electronic cigarettes or not, possibly less harmful - is to give them the information they choose. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Did we allow tobacco advertising and I don't know, Minister? Of course not. Did we go against the European Union and the European directive? On the contrary. We have come to harmonize ourselves with the European directive. Did we do so first and proceed with something that other countries, such as Italy, England, Portugal, Cyprus, Bulgaria, do not do? Of course not. Has this not been evaluated by the World Health Organisation? What do you think? The World Health Organisation referred first of all to Article 1 of the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, the definition of tobacco control, which means control of demand and supply strategies and reduction of damage, aimed at improving the health of the population by eliminating or reducing tobacco consumption and exposure to cigarette tobacco, etc. I could say for another fifteen minutes. What's the point? The essence is that politics is carried out in cross-sections and boldly, consulting all experts - and we proved this to be the political leadership of the Ministry of Health - and moving forward, along with all the modern countries, and not with fear, not dare to make reforms and changes that have been gleaning for years in the Greek state. So these provisions have come. They obviously came in a straight line with the European Union and the World Health Organisation, who sent a letter and congratulates us on the draft law on the PPP. However, because I have heard this as well, that the Ministry of Health triumphs, or that the government triumphs, I would like to say that the opposite has happened over the past few months, with respect for human life, with little or no rhetoric first of all from me, promoting scientists and experts, respecting myself and all my colleagues and colleagues who are specialists in every subject: others are about tobacco, such as Mr Bechrakis, the committee of the Committee on Vaccination, Mrs Theodoridou, if I am not mistaken...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u237	Does Mr. Behrakis agree with this arrangement?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u238	Please very much, I've never interrupted you. Others specialize in intensive, Mrs Cotanidou and her colleagues, others for infections, such as Mr Tsiodras, Mr Panayotopoulos and his colleagues. "Where scientists leave and politicians come": I'm sorry if you believe this for us politicians. I don't believe it, Mr. Comrade. I believe in a new policy, with a new ethos, with a different view of things, with respect to experience, which I do not delete, with recognition that there may be people specializing in specific areas who may know much more than the Minister - and no insecurity exists for that - with an organised programme with excellent associates, Secretary of State, Secretary-General and partners working all day long, who no one saw fit and said "we did, we did, we did, we did" etc. On the contrary. They work with modesty and very careful attention and awareness of the difficulties we face. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very proud of the draft law on the PPP, which I have tabled, and I ask you to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u240	I also have a piece of legislation to put forward, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u241	Yeah, that's what I'd say. You have a piece of legislation in the office, and I want you to announce it before we finish the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u242	It is a legislative improvement to the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Constitutions to ensure access to quality health services - Establishment and Statute of the Agency..." etc. The term ‘Principality’ in the term ‘Principality’ shall read ‘unless otherwise specified in its individual provisions’.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u243	We are therefore tabling a final legislative document for the entry into force, which we add as the date of the entry into force of each individual article of the bill. This is necessary in view of the validity of the exemption for vaccines from 1-9-2020 from the pharmacological expenditure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u244	The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Health is adjourned: "Convisions to ensure access to quality health services - Establishment and Statute of the Quality Assurance Agency in Health SA. (O.D.P.A. H.E.), other urgent provisions for the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and other provisions.’ We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, twenty-four articles, five amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure you have passed all the articles, the amendments, as well as the hotel article and the entire bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u245	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u246	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u247	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Consolidations to ensure access to quality health services - Establishment and Statute of the Quality Assurance Agency in Health SA. (O.D.P.A. H.E.), other urgent provisions for the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and other provisions’, a majority was adopted, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and on the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u248	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u249	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-30-S1-commons.u250	With the consent of this House at 21.41' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 31 July 2020 at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
