ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 29-10-2020 delegation, the minutes of its meetings of Thursday, 29 October 2020 with regard to the vote on all draft laws were ratified by the Bureau:]] 1. ‘Clarification of the Memorandum between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Kuwait in the field of industrial cooperation’ 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation in Science, Technology and Innovation’. 3. "Following the Memorandum of Understanding for Sport Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the General Welfare Authority for Youth and Sport of the United Arab Emirates." 4. "Following the Memorandum of Understanding in the field of Sports between the Olympic Committee of the State of Qatar and the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic." 5. ‘Sport Cooperation Protocol between the Ministry of Education and Religion, Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Physical Education and Sport of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria’. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the reading of petitions. I would ask the Secretary-General to read the reports to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament, Rallia Christidou, MP, B3' South Athens, the following:]] [[A. PRESENTATION OF REFERENCES]] [[To enter page 3a]] B. REQUIREMENTS OF SUPPORT IN BUILDERS
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the reports have been read out. Before entering the debate on the topical and urgent questions, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Monday, 2 November 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 84-26-10-20, by MP Magnesia, New Democracy, Christou Bukouros, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Exemption of rural areas affected by the 'Janus' cyclone by the remote sensing of the coming spring'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 89/26-10-2020 of the SYRIZA MP Thesprotia - Progressive Alliance Mr Marios Katsis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Privatization of the Port Authority Igoumenitsa "OLEG SA". and the terrestrial zone’. 3. The Question No 83/26-10-2020 by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "The permanent reinforcement of the income of the under-retired". 4. The 85/26-10-2020 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The opening of university institutions". 5. The question by number 93/26-10-2020 of the current question by MP Heraklion of Mera25 Mr. Georgios Logiades to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: 'The fight for the right of children with disabilities in learning'. B. QUESTIONS second-round QUESTIONS (Article 130 paragraphs). 2 and 3 and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 88/26-10-2020 topical question by SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Alexandros - Christou Ayloniti to the Minister of Health, on "No care to serve the General Hospital of Corfu". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 94/26-10-2020, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Reimbursement of oil production and other crops from recent disasters and increased compensation for farmers - vegetable producers'. 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, entitled "The disasters in agricultural production in Crete, from the recent quarantine and the severe weather that hit the region." 4. The question by number 9226-10-2020 of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Elisabeth Skoufa to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Destroy the production of chestnut from new fungus'. 5. The number 95/26-10-2020 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The number of outstanding pensions is constantly increasing and the immediate payment of the temporary pension to everyone." 6. The question by number 87/26-10-2020 was raised by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "The registration of the clubs in the "Register of Sports Unions" of the General Secretariat of Sports (GA).(')'. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question raised by Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou, Minister for National Defence, on the subject: "The need to amend legislation for graduates of the Higher Military Schools of Officials (ASY) Order 1992/Category of 1990." 8. The question by No 91/26-10-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Leonidas Stoltides, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Workers, seasonally, in the business of sorting - cooling - standardization - canning - fruits and vegetables in the Regional Units of Imathia and Pella". The Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall also inform the House that the topical and urgent questions to be discussed are as follows: The question under number 79/19-10-20, which will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon-Adoni Georgiadis. The question addressed to the same Minister under No 74/19-10-2020 will not be answered because of lack of competence. The number 65/16-10-2020 and 90/26-10-2020 topical questions will be answered by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Konstantinos Karamanlis. The Question No 63/15-10-20 will be answered by the State Secretary for Citizen Protection, Eleftherios Economou. Questions Nos 62-14-10-2020 and 76-19-10-2020 will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. The question under number 77/19-10-2020 will be answered by the State Secretary to the Prime Minister, Mr Stylianos Pechas. The question tabled by Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister for Development and Investment, on 'Insurance and uncertainty for Scaramaga shipyard workers', will not be discussed because of lack of competence. The question raised by MP B2' West Athens No 64/15-10-2020 Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: 'Standard of repression and asymmetric violence against citizens gathered at the celebration of the Democrat Golden Dawn', the question raised by MP B2's West25 Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: 'Courts and three nights in GDR for a four-year-old student for demonstrating', and the question by MP B2's number 80/19-10-2020, by MP B2 'West Sector Athens, Merra25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis, will not be discussed by the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Coverning the prize of the banner of the banner's banner. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Formats Affairs is tabling its reports on the draft law of the Ministry of Sports and Culture: A. JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES ‘Preparation of the Arrangement for Cultural Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Tourism (hereafter the Ministry of Culture and Sport) of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Culture and Heritage of New Zealand’; B. Other: ‘Preparation of the Culture Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Montenegro’, and C. Other: ex II. 'Preparation of the Council of Europe Convention on Violences relating to Cultural Goods and Implementing Provisions'. I also have the honour to inform you that the Special Committees for the Dissemination of Hellenism, Environment, Research and Technology, Regions, Road Safety and Penitentiary Systems and Other Structures of Incarceration of Prisoners, as well as the Subcommittees for Water Resources and Islands, have submitted their reports on the First Session of the Parliamentary Period, in accordance with Rule 43A(6) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The relevant reports will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting. [[The reports referred to above are in electronic form in the archives of the Special Permanent Committees Directorate.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under number 90/26-10-2020 of the first cycle, of MP B2' Western SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on "Improve the connectivity of Kastelorizos". Mr Konstantinos Karamanlis will answer Your Honor, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u3	Madam President, I would like to ask for a favor. Because we're very few people in the Chamber while I'm talking if I can take my mask off. If you don't allow me, I'll go on like this. I'm asking you, because there are long distances. We are fifteen people in the Chamber, with a capacity of three hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u4	Despite the Rules of Procedure, because I understand that it is very difficult to speak with the mask, please you can take it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u5	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister. The question was submitted almost late and I would really like to say a great deal of thanks for the sensitivity that the Minister had to answer. One of the prisoners. I come to the essence of this question. Before I come to my point, I would like to remind you of two, three things. First of all, I felt a little bad when an elderly Kastelorizos - I was there in mid-August - showed me - and, Minister, you are not responsible for this, it is the wrong - modern maps, where the Kastelorizos complex did not exist in it. And he didn't show me one or two maps, he showed me many. I felt a little bad. Secondly, I would like to remind you that every winter in Kastelorizo live about three hundred and fifty-five people and it made me a great impression that in the schools of the island - kindergarten, primary school and high school - they are studying forty-five or fifty children. I was surprised that thing. I thought he'd have five, six, ten kids. That means these people don't leave their place, they sit there. Third, we've been listening for years for Rue's lady. This woman spent over forty-five years on a desert island alone. I mean it. When I entered the castle of a lightning, I got shot by an incredible beauty. I was going for the first time. It was in August. On the municipal council, I was taught something - and I tell you directly, this question has no opposition - and I was impressed that all the municipal councillors of Kastelorizos unanimously supported eight, nine, ten demands that burn them down. They taught me that when the subject is national, party differences go for a walk. I'm not hiding you that I was taught by this thing. One of the many requests - this is my second topical question - is this, Minister: To go to Kastelorizo, I had to take the plane to Rhodes and if I didn't run in the hallways, I would lose the little plane going to Kastelorizo. In other words, it is being tortured by someone who is creating obstacles to approach this complex of islands. Many don't know that the slow ship from Rhodes does about ten hours to go. A lot of people have the impression that he's there somewhere near Symi, Kos. Oh, no. It has a particular geographicality. I'm talking to you at least, according to the experience I've gained, as I was going for the first time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u6	Mr Colleague, please complete your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u7	I shall conclude, Madam President, on my prototype. These people feel neither isolated nor scared nor nothing. We're more afraid than they are. So I would really like you to tell me - because you are concerned with what I have put to my question - whether direct connection, at least, to Athens airport with Kastelorizo is in your own footage. It is a small airport that if it is currently expanded - it is nothing big - it may well be in direct air connection Athens - Kastelorizou. I would like your opinion on this, Minister. I reserve my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, from the outset, to keep your time tight. I would also like to recommend to the Ministers themselves, precisely because after the timely questions, which are enough, a question also follows. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr Papachristopoulos, first of all, I should like to thank you for your question and to begin with an assumption that I think the whole political world and all the wings of this House are of particular interest and particular sensitivity to issues relating to the Aristotle Kastelorizo, especially these difficult times. But if you will allow me, Madam President, in turn, to have a full picture. At the moment, Kastelorizou municipal airport has a runway to aircraft take-off, only seven hundred eighty-eight meters long and a 75,50 m parking floor. In short, only one aircraft park and a small building a hundred and twenty square blocks. In 2012, the project related to the extension of the aircraft parking floor was completed at a cost of EUR 2,6 million. The work included various things. I refer to the most characteristic features, such as the construction of the parking space, the placement of an anti-slip wall, the displacement of the photolabelling. At that time, in 2012, the services of the PSC were examined for an extension. I'll pass on the U.S. Conclusions. What we will do, I will tell you later, Mr Papachristopoulos. So the PSC - and its services in the year 2012, according to the studies they had done at the time - considers that the extension of the runway to the north is impossible because it falls within a hilly area of a hundred feet deep. Secondly, the alternative to the south in theory could overcome this problem, because there is a hull of great depth, but even if we did that, the corridor would not exceed fifty metres. Thirdly, there would be compulsory removal of natural obstacles. Fourthly, any extension would also require an extension of the aircraft parking floor. Fifth, Kastelorizo has been characterized as a whole area of archaeological interest. Any intervention, as we imagine, needs the agreement of Archaeology. The study, therefore, of the U.S. Service tells us that expansion will not change the charge of the runway for the service of larger aircraft. Now we are going to the issue of air connectivity. In 2001, the air connection between Kastelorizos and Rhodes had joined what we call barren lines. In this way, the Greek State has ensured the minimum service of routes. From 2001 to 2016, the line was served with four weekly routes during the winter season and with seven during summer. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. In 2016, there was a redesign of the routes and weekly frequencies. So the four to seven routes, which I mentioned, became three in the winter period, November to March, four in the middle period and six in the summer season. Therefore, the reduction in traffic is, unfortunately, due to the mistaken, in our view, redesigning the barren lines, which were made in 2016. You didn't ask me about the water roads. I suppose you're going to ask me in your dentistry, because you have it in your question. I will develop you in my dentistry what we intend to do so that connectivity with the airport in Kastelorizo is done more easily.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u11	First of all, thank you, Minister. But I would like to say to you that I have similar studies - I have here before me, but it does not take time to mention them - where there could be an extension of the airport and a direct line of Athens - Kastelorizou and I believe that if there is a political will there. I listened with respect to what you said. I already know them. But I say to you that I have similar studies of engineers who have been involved in airports and can be extended. I would also like to remind you that at the moment these people - in three minutes, Madam President, I will be confined, I will not be far away - are guarding Thermopylae. Me and you might be good patriots, maybe, maybe etc. We don't guard Thermopylae. It's the least we can do for me it's not the last. It's one of the things we should do for the Kasteloriers, who really guard Thermopylae. It's a national matter. It has nothing to do with local problems. And I do not hide from you that they are unanimous decisions by all parties, as a whole. Finally, without wanting to have any more time, Madam President, I would like to say this. I think it is up to us, in our hand - and that is why the question is not of a opposition nature, it is over parties - to make an old, well-established request for direct connection and development of tourism. I saw St. George, a little island. By the way, there's no coronary on this island. I'm closing this, it's got nothing to do with it. She could have, she doesn't. I stayed vigilant when I saw this island's tourism without any help from anyone. It's probably shocking what I'm telling you, but I got lightning when I first entered the port of Kastelorizos. This complex is a place that many Greeks need to know about. I'm being honest with you. You'll write history, you and anyone else if what I say to you, the difficulty of going there, the terrible difficulty of ending it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for the time. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u13	Mr Papachristopoulos, I think it is important to agree that the issue of Kastelorizo airport at two main routes should be reviewed at the moment. The first axis has to do with strengthening the barren lines which - you will allow me to say - were, unfortunately, the government of SYRIZA in 2016, which actually reduced them and rightly reduced them in other cases. In Kastelorizo's case, he was wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u14	Don't get into this...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Papachristopoulos, I have not interrupted you. I listened carefully and I would ask you to listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u16	(It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u17	I'm not going to make any kind of confrontation. What I can commit is that we will review it on 31 December, which ends the barren line procedure, so that we can further strengthen the lines in Kastelorizo. Regarding the airport, I will tell you that for 2020-2021 we have included, together with the PSC, the following projects: Construction of building infrastructure, a budget of EUR 65 000. The project is in a tendering phase. Upgrade lighting, estimated budget of 100,000 euros, and resolution of obstacles to a wider airport area and this budget of 250,000 euros. Our will, however, is to strengthen the airport of Kastelorizo with all our powers, and that is what we will do by investing in the airline, as you quite rightly said, because airport traffic is below the limit of seven hundred thousand passengers, and therefore any investments we make, which we can do, do, do not risk being classified as incompatible State aid by the Commission. At the same time, we are considering another proposal that we have at the Ministry, which is to do with the fact that the aircraft that serve Kastelorizo is an old technology and we are planning an overall strategy to motivate fleet renewal. We will also review with a new study whether we can extend the runway over a thousand hundred metres, so that another type of aircraft can land. To understand it and those who are watching us, the problem at the airport of Kastelorizo is that it is a small runway, therefore larger aircraft cannot land. So we have two solutions, or we can subsidise and help airlines to buy aircraft that can land or consider whether we can increase the runway and take-off so that planes can come from other areas than Rhodes, as you quite rightly said, from Athens. All this is being reviewed together with the Civil Aviation Service and in a very short time we will have an integrated proposal for the best solution, because we, I think, and all the political parties in this Chamber and all the Greeks, as you quite rightly said, are really guarding Thermopylae. Thank you very much for your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, too, Minister. We move on to the first with number 65/16-10-2020 in the second cycle of the SYRIZA MEP - Evangelos Apostolos Evangelos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: ‘It is difficult to absorb compensation from the affected in Evia’. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will also answer Mr Constantine Karamanlis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u19	Minister, it has already been two and a half months since your first visit to Chalkida, when you announced the payment of 3,000,000 euros to the affected, in order to meet the immediate needs of survival and the replacement of the damaged building. What I know is that by mid-October, two and a half thousand euros had been demanded and paid for six hundred. In other words, about one out of four has made use of this aid, while in order to replace the building, payments are minimal, not only because of difficulties in substantiating them, but because the financing of this activity is not sufficient. On August 27, essentially two months ago, you came to Chalkida, and were informed of the two and a half thousand autopsies that took place in buildings affected by the Messapion, Dirfyon and Chalkides. In fact, in your statements you have committed that beneficiaries of compensation may, with a simple request, receive the sums of EUR 5,000 for natural persons and EUR 8 000 for the businesses affected. Do you know how the situation is being shaped today after the end of the first extension and the announcement of the second one that you made yesterday? At the same level as previous payments. In particular, for those of the five thousand for house repairs, it has made use of one in four. We told you when we were discussing the relevant legislative act in this House, that the sums of the two payments are not only sufficient, but also the procedures for their payment are putting the people affected in a complex procedure which makes it difficult to absorb the funds. Minister, flexibility and mood in such cases are essential. Because it is difficult, for example, to show the fridge when there are still houses in the mud. That is why, Minister, firstly, we call on you to provide us with additional information on the progress in implementing the payments in question and, secondly, to speed up the procedures for meeting all the needs of the affected people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Apostle, I am really asking you a frank question, and unfortunately, you are showing on such a sensitive subject that you are trying to create impressions with elements that have nothing to do with reality. That is why I shall also submit to the Minutes a number of facts which disprove what Mr Apostleou claims. But let's start over. From the very first moment on by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, but also by other ministers, we visited the region. We went back on 27 August and announced, in addition to supporting housing and business, a wider infrastructure programme of EUR 240 million, with the aim of getting the region out of a specific isolation. And I'm talking about the three-bypass story. I will, however, stand by the announcement you say, of an allowance without bureaucracy, which we have made. This concerns the granting of exceptional one-off aid to beneficiaries of EUR 5 000 per residence and EUR 8 000 per undertaking. This is done, Mr Apostle, without the need for autopsy. This was ratified by two MDGs on 22 August, to understand the speed with which we acted, which was later ratified by Mr.4722. So what we committed ourselves to was that the extraordinary one-off aid is granted to both main and secondary dwellings, as, Mr Apostolos, and to residential dwellings. So I answer the first part of your question, which you say our commitment is still open to secondary and underground. We're clear about that. Secondly, the figures are as follows. For dwellings, two thousand nine hundred six applications were submitted. After inspection, the thousand two hundred seventy were approved. For businesses, three hundred and twenty have been submitted, of which fifty-four have now been approved. Of these requests, we have a thousand hundred and seventy-seven natural persons, a total of EUR 527 000, and in a hundred and fifty-four companies we have payments of EUR 1.232 000. In other words, 6,76m euros have been allocated to a thousand four hundred and twenty-four businesses. To answer what you are saying, this is beyond the money that has been paid and the exceptional benefits of the Ministry of Interior. This is money that was given for the first time by the Greek State, with quick, digital procedures. With a simple request on the Ministry's website, the beneficiaries could apply, without the need for autopsy. Because we saw what happened in the Eye that some people still expect to compensate. The most basic of all, to answer your last question, is not all we do. Because that is money that we are giving as the first phase of aid. Afterwards, a person who has suffered a greater damage may follow the housing assistance procedure given up to 60% of the State and the EIF grant and 40% of the interest-free loan. We have therefore brought in another procedure beyond this, and in a very short time, those who had made their applications properly were immediately compensated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u22	Me too, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u23	Minister, on your second visit you discussed autopsy in two and a half thousand home cases. Of these, therefore, the two thousand, based on the findings presented, are entitled to this aid. They've been paid so far, as you said, a thousand two hundred seventy. That is why you gave an extension for the next month. But there's a great expulsion. Since you have referred to projects, however, I asked this question more to see the next day's work, because that is the main issue that concerns us at this time. Minister, you know that the causes which particularly caused these floods and disasters - Evia had eight dead, a terrible tragedy - were that the necessary prevention work had not been carried out. That is why we are specifically insisting on a number of issues related to either the barricades, the mesh, all those relating to the fires, where from 1.6 million euros were made, or the other major problem that existed with regard to the Lelada river, where there was a specific study, approved, financed, which did not walk from a regional point of view. In addition - you need to see it, especially as the Minister for Infrastructure - there is a huge problem throughout, I would say, the route of Lelada. We need to look at this issue so that such situations are not repeated, since you already know it, too, had Lelandas warned eight months ago that it might create episodes like the ones we experienced. You can also see the big problem on the network of these regions. The road network has been completely dispersed and the interventions which have actually taken place to facilitate communication between villages and settlements. They were not to solve the major problem that might occur. In this respect, then, we are all going to help. And indeed, we must be able to absorb all this money from those affected and go to the next day, Minister, which is no more than infrastructure in Evia. But since we are talking about an area that has been hit at this hour in Central Evia, it must be completed at this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u25	Madam President, thank you very much. To answer your question, Mr Colleague, why we have made payments to a thousand, seventy-seven natural persons, and are entitled to three thousand, and why we have extended them. For the simple reason that electronically applied application has often provided the same data, such as wrong VAT data, wrong identity or bank account details, so we can answer them, seek them to correct these data, to pay them. Therefore, the three thousand self-consciousnesses that have been made and those who deserve this money will be paid. Already a very large number has been paid, I'd tell you, in record time. Also, as I mentioned in my prototype, additional money has been given to the municipalities from the Ministry of the Interior, which are given to those affected. In fact, these are given without being required, as in the case of Matty, autopsies. So the first 5 000 euros and the first 8 000 euros are given without any autopsies. Of course, the Greek State says in the law that voted that if the person who took the money is not entitled to it, he will pay four times the fine. We shall now go to the two issues that you have rightly mentioned in relation to infrastructure projects. You're a very experienced politician. You have years in politics and you know better than I do that since 2011, the settlement of events and all these issues have gone to the region's competence. Unfortunately, many regions do not have the opportunity to deal with these problems. We will not now analyse the reasons. So what did the government do? In agreement with the district manager, the three large bridges which have suffered damage and while it is the region's responsibility, following consultation and encouragement of the Prime Minister's own, is the central administration, and in accordance with procedures of the law and of paragraph 32, 2c, which are the rapid procedures, is to be restored immediately. As far as the road network is concerned, you are absolutely right that they have suffered a great deal of damage. That is why the Ministry of Infrastructure gave, after the municipalities have given technical bulletins, to the first phase of EUR 1 million in addition to the EUR 1 million provided by the Ministry of Interior, to be made by the municipalities themselves, with which we are in contact, immediate restoration. Therefore, we operate on two levels. Where we can always, in consultation with the local authorities, take responsibility and responsibility for making the great restorations. This will also be done in the case of Carditsa, and the announcements will be here very soon. And where municipalities and regions can come the central administration and has the resources from the Public Investment Programme and other financial instruments to restore them. I understand that the damage has not yet been restored, I understand that there is a great deal of concern in a large part of the population, but I think that several of your short-term partners have acknowledged that for the first time the central administration has acted decisively and quickly and you will soon see that the damages of a truly great tragedy that has hit your region are being restored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, too, Minister. We continue with the seventh under the number 77/19-10-2020 topical question by the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Stylianos Petsas, on the subject: "Supporting regional media". The Deputy Minister will answer the Prime Minister, Mr. Stylianos Petsas. Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes for your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we agree that the pandemic period has highlighted the crucial role of information and, of course, of the regional instruments which have been supporting this effort in good time and in good time. However, there was no similar support for these instruments in order to be able to fulfil their crucial role. Your Change Movement had tabled concrete proposals on the one hand, the application of the law on the allocation of 30% to regional media and, on the other, to take into account, a criterion relating to the viewing, listening, visitability or traffic, and, of course, the number of media employees. The act has shown that the government, and in the allocation of EUR 20 million, has misappropriated the regional media and, of course, the distribution of EUR 2 million recently, which comes only for central television. The Hellenic Region's Information Television Association raises four issues and substantiates that it is in a very difficult situation if there is no government response. The first issue he raises is the implementation of labour subsidy programmes rather than suspension and unemployment. Secondly, the reduction of overtaxation. Third, extension of the 50% discount on the DIGEA rent. Of course, the participation of regional television in the advertising campaigns. At the same time, the Association of Daily Regional Newspapers, as well as the Association of Provincial Press Owners, raise the issue of the unification and updating of the registry as a tool that will include media and digital newspapers, as well as the websites, in order to provide the government with this institutional tool for media printing. Secondly, the reintroduction of the mandatory state publications of notices and notices of L.3548/2007 and in any event to extend the suspension, as has been the case so far, for the implementation of the repeal. Thirdly, the implementation of labour subsidy programmes from 2% funding to the EDPS. Otherwise, if these programmes do not work, abolish 2%. Fourthly, an additional pandemic information programme through regional instruments to restore the injustice that existed in the first phase and also continued with the divisional grant for the second phase that you announced recently. And the question is, if these matters have been to you - you have certainly been taken into account by the institutions themselves - and we would like your opinion, but above all, we want your decisions to be given solutions and to be able to play the decisive role in dealing with pandemic and not only.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Madam President. It's eight questions. I'll try to be brief. I'd like your tolerance. It is a question of subsidisation and not of unemployment, as you said, Mr Kegeroglu. I do not understand if you wish to abolish unemployment benefits. Please clarify. We are, however, moving on both sides. Along with the traditional unemployment benefits, we add tools, such as the "NSP - WORK" programme which has a subsidy for net remuneration of employees to remain in place and the 100 thousand posts announced by the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki, which is being implemented. Nor does the reduction of taxes on the income of natural persons and the reduction of insurance contributions strengthen work in order to keep the worker in his place? Secondly, a reduction in overtaxation. Do you blame the current government for overtaxing? Who lowered the tax on businesses to 24%? Who reduced the dividend tax to 5%? Who reduced the tax deposit? Mitsotakis. Who imposed the 1.5% tax on the cinema to which the related link you notified me refers? PASOK in 2010. In any case, do you want to abolish a tax that strengthens the audiovisual media in Greece? However, we are considering parafiscal taxes such as the 0.3% blind tax, within the framework of the national action plan for people with disabilities announced at the previous Ministerial Council. Extension of a 50% discount for 'DIGIA'. This extension was made by this government for five months and it actually gave a breath to regional TV channels. However, the amount involved in the rights of use of terrestrial digital broadcasting frequencies to the SET paid by DIGEA was exhausted by this extension. There is therefore no financial margin for this extension to continue. What's there? There are the support measures for regional television stations which are also in place by the government horizontally for many sectors of the economy, such as the 'CUSTOMS' programme, special purpose compensation and a number of other measures which will be reinforced this afternoon by the announcements by the Prime Minister and the Minister responsible for finance. Involvement of regional television in public advertising campaigns. Of course they're part of it. In the programmes approved by the Secretariat-General for Communication and Information, of course, 30% is observed. As far as the programs "We Stay Safe" and "We Stay Home" are concerned, it was an extraordinary situation. The institutional framework was the PPP of 13 March 2020 and was aimed at the maximum speed, maximum coverage and maximum effectiveness of the message that we had at that time in exceptional conditions for dealing with pandemic. Literally the campaign saved lives from the pandemic. As far as the regional press register is concerned, you say it's outdated. I will submit in the minutes the press release I issued on 24 July 2020 with the second update of that register which was introduced in 2017 and did not start working. It has been operating since 2019 by my own decision and was updated in July 2020 again by my own decision. Two hundred and twenty-four daily and weekly newspapers participate today. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister to the Prime Minister, Mr Stylianos Petsas, submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Restoration of the mandatory state publications. Indeed, it is something that ends on 31-12-2020. We are prepared as a government to extend for one year. The relevant provision prepared in cooperation with Mr.Adoni Georgiadis will be included in the Ministry of Development bill on public procurement updated by Law 4412/2016. Repeal of a 2% contribution in favour of the EDPS. As you know, this case is in the Council of State. The government will not intervene and we will not do so until this trial is pending. Last theme, the pandemic information programme through regional instruments. At this stage, we are not considering this. We move on to the programme adopted by the Greek Parliament and implement in a few days, with regard to the EUR 2 000 000 for a new campaign that will run throughout November in the middle of national terms, because this achieves the best possible coverage and effectiveness of the message, at the least cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you don't answer me and I don't raise matters. It is self-destructive as set out by the Association of Information Televisions of the Hellenic Region, the Association of Journals of Regional Newspapers, the Association of Provincial Press Owners, the Association of Journalists of Periodical Press. I give you four documents concerning these eight questions. [[At this point, MP Heraklion, Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But in particular, I would like to see two - three of these issues which you have tried to ask about. First of all, on the question of work, the means cannot function on a job suspension. And when everything had stopped, everything was frozen in economic activity, the means were working. This means that instead of being suspended, work-subsidisation is needed. It's just things. If you want, take it into consideration. The Ministry of Labour does not deal with this view. The second issue concerning the extension of the DIGEA rent, I think, two months should have passed. They raise it as a basic issue. Besides, it's not a gift. It is an extension of the 50% discount for a period of two months. I therefore think that you can review it. In order to reduce overtaxation, in periods of different perception and economic prosperity taxes were introduced in favour of third parties throughout the public sector. From there on, there was a rationalization. I do not say who will be abolished and who will not be abolished. But when you recognise that 20% of taxation was disastrous and you do it 5%, with the same reasoning of this catastrophic perception that has imposed 20%, they are asking for 5% to be eliminated, not to exist, not to exist, because it is an obstacle to the development of activity. I'm coming to the campaign now. In the 20 million, regional TVs with 26% of the viewing received 2% of the funding. Therefore, the televising criterion has not been complied with. I come and read your ministerial decision and you have finally adopted the televised criterion. Only you adopted it for the central only. This decision, if it were complete, should include regional instruments which, based on all measurements, have 25% of the viewing, whether you like it or not. Of course, instead of being EUR 2,000,000, it could be EUR 2,500,000 and there would be no harm to anyone, but a benefit to information and therefore to try to deal with the pandemic. You know your ministerial decision. It is a step in the right direction to adopt the criterion, which is only partially applied and therefore actually annulled. I'm coming to the register. Perhaps the word 'achieved' is inappropriate for the matter of time. However, they are asking for the inclusion of digital newspapers and websites, which is not available. In this sense it is archaic when you only have the form, not in the sense of time. A positive response to the extension of the suspension of the obligation to publish notices and notices. And I'm coming to 2% of the EDPS. I'm not interfering, saying what the court should do or you, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u32	Mr Colleague, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u33	I'm done, Madam President. However, where the programmes for the purpose for which the 2% levy is imposed are not implemented and do not concern an important world of the press, they should not be required to 2%. That's what I said. They cannot pay 2% and do not enjoy the purpose for which this money is collected. Minister, I would say to you as the last word today that you should consult directly with the association of Greek television, regional information and press representatives on these issues. Solutions can be given. The budget costs are not significant for the issues they raise. There are institutions too. Therefore, look at it in this direction, because it really is the role of regional media, television and radio and the printed and electronic press that is critical and irreplaceable.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u35	They have more confidence in the people who see and listen more to them when they analyse them and quote them, than the central means that they have their own role, their own power, of course, of national scope, but they cannot substitute regional resources. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Come on, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Madam President. I shall start, vice versa, on consultation issues. I've met many times with a natural presence in my office and with teleconferences, with all the associations of journalists. Please ask how many times all these associations and the NSAs have seen the previous government and will tell you. As far as the issues that are concerned are concerned, first of all, when the tax on television advertising was reduced from 20% to 5%, it was because the 2% tax in favour of the EDPS was introduced. These two are interconnected and you know it. Therefore, pending the case in the Council of State for 2% of the EDPS, no other measures will be considered. We will await the decision of the Council of State. We do not want to take as a government as long as it is left, as I said before, and we will wait later see what action we are going to take. In any case, the advertising tax is borne by the advertiser, as we know well. And we have taken our measures, in a year that has been very much reduced in advertising expenditure, to introduce, with the previous law adopted by the Ministry of Finance, a provision on overcompensation for advertising expenditure in order to keep down this year and to stimulate time, in order to compensate for this reduction in advertising expenditure, which naturally affects all instruments, whether national territory or any other instrument. On the subject of television stations and their participation in the previous campaign, look, regional media are not just regional TV stations. There are also radios, they are regional newspapers, they are websites, they are all those that participated in the first campaign. And despite the fact that there was no obligation of 30% to cover regional instruments - because I told you that there was a special provision in the legislative act since March 2020 - we did, in fact, see to it that the amount reached in regional instruments was 26%. And it was a great success, as we passed the 20% that we had set as a target. With regard to other matters relating to job suspension, whether or not it serves regional means, job suspension is generally not served by the media. That is why we have taken care from March and April, in addition to the operations that were closed, to benefit the state and the media, including the media CARs to those affected, whether or not they were in operation, and at the same time, those who did not have this media CAR, have ensured that they are included in the General Secretariat of Communications and Information Register. And that is what we will do now - I repeat - the measures which will be announced this afternoon by Mr Stavoura. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too, Minister. The third question will be discussed under number 63/15-10-20 of a top-level question by MP B1' North Athens, Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject of "Increasing and inappropriate police violence against peaceful protesters". The State Secretary for Citizen Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer. Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you too, Minister, for being here as always to answer our question. Minister, on Wednesday 7-10-2020 during the well-known grand gathering outside the Court of Appeal of Athens on the occasion of the trial of the Golden Dawn and immediately after the announcement that the Golden Dawn is at last a criminal organisation, men of the MATs attacked with chemical and cliffs of fistolism in the crowded crowd that was demonstrating peacefully and democratically. Unnecessarily and without any warning, police forces seconds after the announcement moved against the citizens, thereby jeopardising their lives and physical integrity. Only a few bottles of water and a few coffees launched to the police teams, and certainly not in any case 50 molotovs according to the announcement by the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Chrysochoid. Indisputable witness to what I'm saying is not only those of us who participated in the gathering, like myself, who personally attacked with chemicals and rattles of men of MAT. Indisputable witness is also the cameras they have recorded, Mr. Minister, framed the facts and prove the truth. The video of the international prestigious documentary, Georgios Ageropoulos, is more than enlightening. Look at it. And I'm telling you honestly to see it, because you're going to draw conclusions. Two days later, on Friday 9-10, noon, and while the political, natural, administrative leadership of the Greek police had a quiet conscience about the previous incidents, the men of the MAT re-engineered with violence and authoritarianism, this time, Minister, to high school students, their teachers and escorts, who were outside the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs. Concentrated on the road claimed a few parts, recruitment of teachers and cleaning staff. In the videos of this attack, we see, Minister, intimidated minors raising their hands as prisoners of war to escape the violence of police officers. Many of them were arrested. And now known on the pan-Hellenic TVs fourteen-year-old from Halandri, both he and the rest spent four days at the Athens Police Directorate without being able to see their parents and sleeping on the floor, which is a torture in our opinion. Is the Minister asking: First, is it an option, Minister, and the order of political leadership, the unrelenting, unrelenting and exceptional brutal violence displayed by police forces? We live in a repressive state? Secondly, is the Greek Police in the protests to protect us citizens or to destroy them for no reason? Will the responsible and accountable persons finally be found to be responsible for the inaccurate use of force, or are they under special immunity? Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u40	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is undoubtedly an indisputable right for every member of the national delegation to have permanent and strict parliamentary control over actions and any omissions in the political of each government. It is, however, a duty for every government to highlight the facts by throwing light on every aspect of its actions, against the usual ideas of some who are aware of this procedure of the highest value of parliament as yet another reason for causing temporary political impressions. We are already divided a few days from the events that are affected by the current question, the time during which much has been written and said in the public debate. Once again there has been the truth, which has been brutally abused in the efforts of some who attempt to declare micro-political 'parents' to a society that is tested by a multitude of challenges every day. In response to the constant demand of society to defend the truth, we are here today to describe every aspect of the issues under discussion with the necessary objectivity and transparency, removing every shadow that some artificially and systematically attempt, but unsuccessfully, to keep around the government for its actions. The mass meeting of citizens outside the First Trimel Court of Appeal on 7 October attempted to exploit some in order to unleash society's mobilisation and great interest in what was unfolding within the courtroom. While a number of bodies, organisations and representatives of political parties, as well as ordinary citizens, raised their voices against neonaziism, contributed, in order to preserve the order and safety of all, a small group of about seven hundred anti-unionists in listening to the decision of the seat were completely inappropriate to cast a number of objects with great vigour to the police forces on Luke Street, behind the barrier of the service buses. At the same time, a group of them with wood, sticks and other objects and throwing smoke gas attacked these vehicles, causing a large number of damage. By defending the forces of the Greek Police and for the purpose of avoiding generalised incidents that would jeopardise the physical integrity of the crowd in the surrounding area, they carefully carried out some water drops and then, limited, strictly targeted use of tear gas exclusively in the field of incidents rather than in the direction of the main volume of concentration. During the departure of the crowd, there was again an attack by the anti-semitists' group against the police forces found in the avenue of Alexandra Avenue on surrounding roads. The attack and the results of its fierceness, as illustrated by photographs and recorded material from drone above the appeals court, which I shall present here today in the Minutes, are more than obvious, and it is worth mentioning that there has been a trauma to police as a result of a bomb molotov. To conclude with the events of 7 November outside the Court of Appeal, I would like to point out that a preliminary investigation is being carried out by the competent departments of the Greek Police for violating numerous articles of the Criminal Code and Law 2168/93. A preliminary administrative examination shall also be carried out on the occasion of a complaint by a Member of the Grand Response for the damage caused by the casting of tear gas, while a sworn administrative examination has been ordered and carried out for the above-mentioned injury to the police, as well as for the cause of damage to public goods and service vehicles. Finally, following complaints from your party's secretary Mr Varoufakis, demonstrating the necessary immediate response that is appropriate to the institutional role of each political party's leader, a sworn administrative examination has been carried out with urgency. Unfortunately, the sad minorityes did not miss either the meeting of students two days later from the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs. While a meeting of about eight hundred persons, disciples and other citizens was under way, shortly after the twelve about the two hundred, of which some seventy with covered features, located behind the head of the disciple’s course, began to escalate towards the courtyard of the ministry’s multitude of objects, such as bottles, smokers, barrels, wood, as well as rocks. Then, and while they were broken into groups, some continued to drop objects to the Ministry's site, others moved towards the entrance of his official, while a third group attacked the police force, which was a hundred meters away. In the short term, however, it is absolutely necessary to use tear gas by the Greek Police, several of the above approached the "The Mall" marketing centre, which used as a forum for both new attacks on both the Ministry of Education and the "Mall". And while the vast majority of the assembled had left, about two hundred people began to destroy the yard, breaking marbles and flying them to the police forces, while some fifty people continued to remain on the multi-shop bridge, flying objects to the police until 14.00, when they left. So I urge you to take careful note of the number of photographs I shall be presenting today in the Minutes. Perhaps this is how you perceive the stubbornness of the attacks and the danger of the actions of this minority, as revealingly illustrated. Fortunately, there was no injury, but we had extensive damage to public species, a fire in dry grass, which was devastated by the police, as well as material damage to the premises of the department store. As a result of the above, there was an arrest of a student, who slew stones to the above-mentioned platoon. There's been a preliminary investigation. The case-file has been lodged and the arrest in question has been released on the order of the competent prosecutor of minors. And in what you were suggesting about detention conditions, I would like to inform you that the preliminary investigation of the minor has been carried out by the juvenile department, which is specialised in how to handle minors, with the particular sensitivity that it needs. All procedural provisions relating to minors have been fully respected. There was communication with the relevant and with the lawyer and the detention conditions are not what you refer to, nor did anyone sleep on the floor. There is a special space, special detentions, which are provided for minors, and that is where the particular detention was carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Minister. Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like to make it very clear from the outset that it is not my character, I am not here to stumble even to get a third political impression. I am here because, as a state agent, in the small size that counts me as a member of the opposition, I want to help the government, I want to help the system to stop a minority of police officers causing a problem in civil relations with the police. I'll explain right away. First of all, Minister, with all due respect, I was there in the first case, you were not. You're talking about a series of drones. I heard them carefully. I'll let you know we've already seen them. But you haven't seen Mr. Ageropoulos' documentary. It's just by the side and it shows both the men of the MATs, the cages prolonged, and the people who start the episodes. The people who start the incidents, because they invaded 10 meters in front of the Mera25 block, which we were right in front of the courtroom, so we were there, they were fifty, Minister. I saw them with my eyes and I saw them half an hour before these episodes began. It was ten meters ahead of us, as I told you. Now, be careful. We in Mera25 do not in any way say that all men of MAT are provocably aggressive and use unnecessary force. Some, perhaps even few of those who are, say that they are not controlled by you, by the political leadership, which must control them and bring them back to order. Does the attitude of the Minister for Civil Protection, who is systematically trying to cover such behaviour, offer something to the service at home? Why? Because it exposes and slanders in this way to the Greek people all conceived men of MATs, which is deeply unfair to men of MATs but also dangerous to civil relations with security bodies. Now, as far as the second case is concerned, the seriousness that you said, after being tampered with 'Mall', has been demonstrated by the students, Minister, are you serious? How strong can fourteen-year-old students be? We all know he's fourteen years old, the arrester who's been down four hours at the general police station. How severe, really, can such a man show at that age toward men of MATs, who better know than me their dependency and arms? It's almost on the edge of the comic. I'm sorry to tell you that. Also, listen to me. The fourteen-year-old who was released, as he denounces not myself, not in Mera25, the Parents' Association of the Municipality of Halandri and the Municipality of Halandrio, according to a Communication from the municipality, is an elected secretary of the 15th-member Council of the 7th High School of Halandri and was at the student rally, representing his school. The municipality asks for his release and for his release from school in order to return to his life and continue his schooling. On the other hand, the Parents and Students' Association - and you know that the associations of parents' and students' associations are quite conservative, they are nothing extremists - emphasises that the student was arrested for a felony "completely unnecessarily, while leaving a catering store in the Syntagma Square and being held for four whole days without having the right to a minor child to communicate with his family". During his detention, Minister, he was only seen by his lawyer, while his mother stated that her contact with him was only on the phone with him under the pretext of the coronary measures. A mother can't see a child in a space that I imagine is more than two square meters from the coronary. The student himself, after being released, said, Madam President and Minister, that he slept on the floor. You have to say publicly that you claim to be lying to a fourteen-year-old. And I really remind you that this fourteen-year-old is elected by all his school classmates as president of the fifteenth. So that's what we've been saying for so long. We're saying you'll do well to catch some people who act illegally. There's no doubt about it. We systematically say, Minister, that you often catch the wrong people. It's obvious that this kid was the wrong man. I won't claim there's probably no one next to him or beyond who did things that needed arrest. It might have happened. I didn't see it on TV, but it might have happened. The cops aren't crazy. But this one is clearly shown by Mayor Halandri, by the parents and guardians that he is not the man who would do that. I will finish immediately, Madam President, and thank you very much for your tolerance, saying that, Minister, you said that you were dealing with justice, that you were doing CSR. You yourself have told me that more than - I think - four hundred and eighty-six cases have so far gone to ETS and you have said so veeringly. I ask you for a multiplier: How many of them were punished? Who's been set up? Who lost his place? Nobody. You know that better. Nobody. No one can have used police force. As Mr Georgiadis said yesterday here, 'you may not like any investment'. He can't, one of the four hundred eighty-six will have used police force. And I repeat: our aim is to help to love society among itself. Our aim is to avoid unnecessary violence. We're not here to wrestle. Listen to it. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u44	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Madam President. I have listened carefully to what you have chosen to show through your position. It would, however, be a failure not to dwell on certain issues raised by the content of your timely question. In your dentistry, however, you referred to a question tabled by Mr Arsenis, who, for some reasons today, was unable to attend here. You referred to a completely different subject. I reserve the floor when the question is discussed. But let me just make a comment. For what you mentioned, there have also been public positions of our own. As far as the particular minor you referred to and the statements made by the Municipality of Haliri, etc. is concerned, you are very well aware that the prosecutors of minors have been persecuted against this person. He was referred to the interrogator. He was ordered to be detained on Thursday and to be reassigned to the interrogator on Monday, where he was left on the basis of his apology on specific conditions, for which I would not - and I cannot - refer more to today. I am amazed to see, however, that there is a lack of distinction between the peaceful citizens of all ages who are gathered in order to show their positions and demands peacefully and those extreme minorities aimed at causing turmoil through acts of violence and destruction. It causes a variety of questions, the attempted mystical portrayal of the events of the Appeals Court and the Ministry of Education, which is trying to stir up in the eyes of their public opinion riots with the rest of the gatherings, aiming to compose a blurred setting for the purpose of these gatherings and the intentions of all those who participated in them. This attempted approach defends the rights of all those who choose peaceful mobilisation in order to express their demands and positions. On the other hand, it tarnishes their right to do so. We cannot equate the violent minorities who systematically attempt to disrupt the well-being of citizens with the responsible behaviour of the vast majority of citizens who choose mobilisation as a way of expressing their positions. In fact, I appeal to you, all of these minorities who have been afflicting the place politically and operationally for so many years. As far as the attitude of political leadership, as I have mentioned several times, it is clear. The government is loyally respecting democratic principles and values while fully respecting the rule of law. The Greek Police perform their mission with full respect for the Constitution and the laws of the state. Ladies and gentlemen, policemen, as part of the implementation of the current legislation and the Constitution, are on the front line of defending the stability and defence of the democratic culture against any threat. There are no hints about the democratic conception of the Greek police. Turning back on the issue of student mobility and completing it, I would like to emphatically stress the need to maintain the student community outside all kinds of party controversies, while preserving the proper functioning of school units in a difficult, admittedly short term for all of us. Our primary concern is to defend the right of all students to a better future through a proper education process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, too, Minister. The second question will then be discussed with number 62/14-10-2020 in the context of the first cycle of the Athens Western Sector of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nantia) Giannakopoulou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Main the issue of the dismantling of high-voltage air lines by the Municipality of Agios Anargyro - Kamaterou and their replacement with high-voltage (Y.T.)" The Secretary of State for Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras, will answer. My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, today with the timely question that we are discussing, I would like to stress a major issue, which is agitating, employing, contemplating the inhabitants of western Athens and, in particular, the inhabitants of the Municipal Unit of Saints Anargyra, the Municipality of Agios Anargyro - Kamaterou, and which is concerned with the call made on several occasions to the state for the serious problems that have arisen since the existence of the high-voltage air lines. You can understand that there is a severe danger. And it is what they are asking for, as there are studies and measurements, which have been carried out and show that the levels of electrical and magnetic fields of electromagnetic radiation vary in some parts of the densely populated tissue, not just near the limit, but sometimes quite above the permitted limits, which have been laid down by the relevant protection regulations, in particular by the European Parliament directives. In particular, the high-voltage airtight zone refers to a large number of dwellings, even in the suburbs of schools, Minister - if possible - and school complexes, as well as to an extent of several blocks. It is about seventy - seven buildings, forty - five blocks, and seventy - thirty households. If I can, I would like to give very briefly some areas to which this problem relates. It has to do with Anargyros Street in the 1st Municipality, where due to the transformer PPC the electromagnetic radiation values are constant above the limit. At Alexander Street and George Papandreou there are pillars of PPC and the electromagnetic radiation values are at very high levels. And there are many more. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You can understand that, in addition to the nuisance of audiovisual, which is serious and the depreciation of people's property there, and intense concern and concern about their health from their continuous exposure to electrical and magnetic fields. No one knows whether there can be - and when - the necessary task of subjugating lines. An estimated sub-installation includes three circuits. It also concerns the replacement of Halkidone substation with a closed substation of GIS. In conclusion, I would like to tell you that the Prime Minister of the country, Mr Mitsotakis, who is elected in western Athens, is a Member of West Athens and during the sanctification of this year's school year was found at that school, which is right next to the high-voltage transformer...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u48	Finish, my colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u49	He was an eyewitness. He saw the situation. But I fear that so far nothing has been done. So we want you to give us a clear picture of the measures you intend to take in order to ensure the protection of the environment, public health and quality of life. We'd like you to tell us what you're going to do with the basements. Let us know if you'll include them in the programs that are available from IPTO. In general, we want you to tell us how you believe that the present situation will be addressed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Giannakopoulou for her question. Indeed, the region of western Athens and the daily lives of its inhabitants, as you know, gather the interest of the government and the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis personally, because, as you have said, he is also a member of the Western sector. So he has a sensitivity even more. We are aware of the concern of the people and of the reports you have made here today about the possible effects on the health of the people through the passage of air transport and we are trying to give substantial and immediate solutions. From the wider area of the Municipality of Agios Anargyro - Kamaterou crosses three high-voltage airlines. It is the transfer line Ruff - Aliveri, the transfer line Chalcedonna - Aliveri and the transfer line Acharnon - Chalcedonna. In the context of the modernisation and upgrading of infrastructure and the maintenance of the reliability of the national electricity transmission system, IPTO has included in its 10-year development programme the grounding of the first two lines, i.e. the Ruff-Aliverion and Halkidone-Aliverion lines and specifically the part from the Halkidon substation to the part of the Attica Road, four kilometres each. The definition of the implementation of these sub-institutions is the second half of 2024. The respective ground sections of the transport lines will then be dismantled. IPTO as the main manager of the national electricity transmission system, in which case it is responsible for the construction, management and maintenance of electricity transmission infrastructure, attaches particular importance to the protection of health and the environment, through strict compliance and application of international and national regulations, which incorporate results of the latest scientific research and practice. Both IPTO and the Ministry of Environment and Energy are concerned about the burden of health from the existence of the pillars, which are related to the issue of electrical and magnetic fields, as you mentioned, of extremely low frequency and of possible biological effects. This issue concerns the international scientific community and public opinion over the last thirty years. A large number of measurements have been carried out in the surrounding high-voltage and high-voltage lines, while similar measurements have been made by research institutes and the Greek Atomic Energy Commission. The values of these fields, as shown by the measurements, shall meet the established limit values with high margins of safety. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude immediately, Madam President. Specifically with regard to the magnetic field, which is mainly focused on research, the resulting values are significantly lower than the limit values. Because of the limitation of time, I'm going to go on in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Minister. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u53	The prices resulting from the specific areas I mentioned to you, Minister, are significantly higher than those allowed, on the basis of the limits laid down by the European Commission, and this is a major issue. That is why we are insisting, and that is why we are calling for an immediate solution to this problem, which, yes, no one doubts, is a problem that is a long time ago, but it must be implemented at some point and what we are calling for is what we are calling for: the undermining of these lines. We have listened with satisfaction to your commitment that there will be the dismantling of the above-mentioned high-voltage lines and their undergroundisation - that's what you said, right? - through the accession of the Municipality of Saints Anargyros to the 10-year development programme of the "ADMINE S.A.". We therefore expect to see whether all of this can be implemented in reasonable time. 2024 is not close, Minister. They are not close, and our children will continue to go to schools, which I told you are directly exposed to such high frequencies. The squares, which unfortunately have the same problems in St. Anargyros, will continue to have the same problems. We will be here to monitor the course of this project, because it is a matter of primary, primary importance to the inhabitants of the Agia Anargyra, for the inhabitants of western Athens, who you know very well, as a responsible minister, that it has a terrible environmental burden in every way, whether with the HYTA Globe or with much more. So what we are asking for is for you to stop confronting Western Athens and its inhabitants, its citizens as citizens of second class, and finally put serious priorities, as far as their health is concerned, in terms of the environmental upgrading of western Athens and the words, Minister. We'll check you out all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, my colleague, for keeping time. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Madam President. I also respect the area and, of course, the inhabitants, and that is why I said that programming is the two networks, the transport lines, the ground transport lines, as planned by the IPTO. Continuing, however, the question of the effects of the electric and magnetic field, the potential biological effects especially of the magnetic field, as you know, have been a research field for many years, to clarify many elements and risks that certainly exist. The results of such studies shall be taken into account, analysed and weighted, in accordance with international data and the scientific community and competent bodies. The most stringent reference values were established by the Directive of the International Committee for Protection against Ionizing radiation adopted in 1998 and revised in 2010. The reference prices for this Directive were adopted by the European Council in a recommendation adopted in 1999. This directive in Greece was incorporated into a ministerial decision in September 2000, which adopted 80% of the prices of the European Commission's recommendation. Furthermore, in April 2002 a joint ministerial decision was adopted by the Ministers for Development, the Environment and Health, which adopted 100% of the prices of the European Commission's recommendation. In conjunction with the legislation on the licensing and installation of electromagnetic fields and low frequencies emission devices, Greece is now among the countries that have established the most stringent limits in Europe. The established reference values shall not constitute risk limits and shall contain significant margins of safety. On the other hand, regulations and guidelines at national and international level do not define safety distances from infrastructures for the transport of electricity, since the development of electric fields and magnetic fields is interconnected with the use of electricity. From there on, IPTO attaches great importance to strict compliance with the rules on the protection of human health and the environment. It achieves this by fully implementing international and national regulations and guidelines. At the same time, in the context of his social mission to provide energy, uninterruptedly and reliablely, the IPTO emphasises the improvement of the everyday and quality of life of its citizens. This results from the development, projects and actions it develops and implements not only in the regions of western Athens, but also throughout the national transport system. That is the situation today. I referred to the planning and subordination by 2024 and of course immediately after the decommissioning of the ground sections. Finally, there is constant monitoring of the effects on health and the environment, where the data so far do not justify and represent no cause for concern. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, too, Minister. We move to the fifth under number 76/19-10-2020 on a topical question by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Little the budget for Crete in the program "Solid the Budget for Crete". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the 'Security - Self-Government' programme can continue the success of the 'Home Settlement' programme for the effective upgrading of the country's building stock, provided that modern technologies, new techniques and, of course, there is a fair and necessary distribution for the regions in order to include everything that can be incorporated into the investment projects in this area. The planned funding for Crete is EUR 31 million in accordance with the allocation decision, while the total amount allocated throughout the country is very high compared with the previous programme which once again represented the same amount in Crete. Because whatever criterion we get this distribution, it is not considered fair and objective for Crete, but also for other island regions, we are asking for a review with additional funding for Crete and the other islands. If we look at the population of the regions, we see that it falls short of other regions and not just Western Macedonia and the Peloponnese. It is therefore an important issue that I raised with this topical question and with its political dimension. It is not possible for the New Democracy to say "We have a Cretan Prime Minister, we have a Cretan Minister for the Environment, etc." and the price to be less funding. I think you should review the amount of funding for Crete. The programme of course starts 30 months and you can see the other island regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u58	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Kegeroglu for his question and apologise on behalf of the Minister who cannot be here himself to answer your question. Let me begin by saying that the government as a whole attaches particular importance to Crete, the prospects and the most important role it performs today. We all have no doubt about that. The same applies to the Ministry of Environment and Energy that has integrated Crete into the frontline of policies on projects relating to so-called green development. I now go to the 'Security - Autonomous' programme, which is another flagrant intervention by the Ministry and the Government, the known 'Security - Autonomous' and 'Security' programme, which started in 2009 by Kostis Hatzidakis at the seat of the then Minister for Development. It goes into the next phase, incorporating beyond the dimension of savings and that of energy autonomy. The programme was redesigned on the basis of the European Commission's guidelines for a significant improvement in energy consumption by 2030, as well as in the ambitious objectives outlined in the National Energy and Climate Plan which the Government completed in December last year. The 'Security - Self-Government' has a budget significantly larger than that of previous programmes. This is a budget programme of 850m euros, while all the previous 'Security at home' had a total budget of 1,3 billion euros. The programme has a much higher percentage of subsidies than its predecessors, which is even 85%, and is linked for the first time to the estimated annual primary energy savings that can be achieved through residential work. In addition, in addition to standard energy improvement and savings, the energy autonomy parameter and the possibility of subsidising smart energy management systems and energy production and storage operations are added. We are therefore talking about a financial programme that is more modern, more ambitious and more compatible with European standards. On the issue of Crete and participation in the programme, in accordance with the design and guide published on 13 October, the submission of applications for membership of the programme, as you know, is for Crete on 30 November 2020. The resources of the programme that will be allocated and which we stress come from the Operational Programme of the Region of Crete and from the PAENEC Operational Programme amount to EUR 31 million. Along with the contribution from the “Security II” Fund, it is estimated that 33m euros will be made available to Crete in total. Because of the time constraints, I'm going to continue in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, in the previous programme, application lasted forty-five minutes. In the current programme on the basis of criteria, it is estimated that a maximum of one thousand nine hundred fifty are to be intensified, two thousand buildings. It is the way the programme is structured and the necessary work and techniques, of course, that need to be applied to homes with low energy savings ratios that are not enough to do with more applications. That's the one thing. If that were for all of Greece, I would say it goes well, that you put that money or that it needs to be increased. But you have a problem with the distribution. Previously, we were discussing the allocation of money for the instruments with Mr Fapsa. You have a problem with distributions. You do not publish specific criteria on the basis of which you make distributions. You do not follow specific criteria and you cannot find the logic that you are following in some cases. I'll testify to you a painting of the populations of the whole country to see. The Region of Crete, therefore, with six hundred and twenty thousand population, receives 31 million. Western Greece, with a little higher population, receives 57 million, Thessaly, also with a little more population, 84 million, Epirus with half the population, 65 million. Look, "Security - Self-determination" don't confuse it with the heating allowance. It's not about cold areas. More need is to save the energy-saving process of addressing high temperatures and you know that very well. And the buildings, which are largely, 80% of which are homes, really need this programme to help save energy as a whole, but also to improve housing conditions. There is a parameter that you use for western Macedonia and possibly for the Peloponnese that has to do with the frustration and support of people there because they will lose their capacity for the district heating systems and others for their homes. I have asked you a question and a proposal. The question refers to the impact of the new airport in Kastelli, which has been from noise pollution to a number of other negative consequences, which can be addressed through this programme, as long as it is possible to include homes in the wider area. It is not possible for the Peloponnese to have special care for Megalopolis, to have special care for western Macedonia, and we will see and see how it will be implemented, of course, and there will be no such care in another region. I would mention this, for example, so that you do not tell me that the money is paradoxical in other areas. The figure of 31 million in Crete is nowhere. He's not standing anywhere! See it immediately to modify. See it directly to set specific criteria that are unfair to other island regions that have the same problem. Is it possible in the southern Aegean to be 27 million and in the northern Aegean to be only 12? In relation to Crete it is a balance, but both are shattered, both Crete and the southern Aegean and the northern mainland and, of course, Central Greece. No one understands and doesn't figure out how you made this distribution. That is why I will submit to you the table I have written next to the population and the corresponding amounts, and I would ask you to review this decision at least after the completion of the applications, if you cannot before. If you are not ready now, give a promise that from the Recovery Fund or consider where they will be driven to save energy, not all will go to the larges, but a sum will go to the "Security - I own" which concerns the dwellings and buildings that need this energy upgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u62	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Madam President. With regard to the amount of funding for each region, I would like to stress that this is linked to the resources allocated by each region from regional programmes and from the programme, of course, by the ESDP, as well as from national resources. That is why you also see differentiations in terms of amounts per region. The sum of EUR 31 million plus EUR 2 million, a total of EUR 33 million available for Crete, I would like to say that it relates to a percentage to cover the grant. So the total budget allocated to energy upgrading is higher than that. In the previous cycles, the average grant per home was about 8,000 euros. In the "Security - I own" the estimated cost, per housing, is EUR 14,000, precisely because the design allows for a greater range of interventions, but also because the integration and the grant is linked to the planned improvement in energy consumption. Based on estimates and available resources for the Region of Crete, it is estimated that some two thousand fifty houses will be supported by the program. Surely the interest that exists from the households of Crete and the whole country and the demand there is is greater than the resources currently available and the intervention is important, but it also has continuity. However, the allocation of resources from national and European sources was made on the basis of specific criteria such as climate conditions in each region, population, old age of the building stock and demand. And I want to be clear about this, without any desire to give Crete less and more elsewhere. We have all had to recognise that there should be care for the regions affected by liberation - you mentioned it yourself - for Macedonia and Megalopolis which certainly have additional peculiarities. We should also be aware that, as has been announced by the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, the 'Security - Autonomous', will follow even larger programmes from 2021 onwards, through annual notice programmes to be financed from the new NSRP 2021-2027 and from the Recovery Fund and will be made available by 2023 and on issues relating to energy savings of up to EUR 3 billion. Let us not forget, moreover, that, until today, since 2011, the launch of the "Security - Autonomous" programme has been taking place, energy upgrades have been made to about thirty thousand homes, when we are targeting at at least sixty thousand energy housing upgrades every year. Therefore, even if they do not come under the current phase of the programme and because I am aware of the increased interest, they will have the possibility of next cycles, Mr Kegeroglu, being subsidized and entering many more dwellings to make energy upgrades. We will ensure that everyone is able to participate in the big leap towards energy savings that will take place in the coming years. This will certainly also give value to the real estate of households, will stimulate the construction industry and the related professions, will mobilise funds and, of course, will contribute to achieving national and European energy objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, because the Minister for Development has been delayed, we will have a short break to start with our last question, Mrs Jackson. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Here is the fourth question, number 79-19-10-2020, on the second question of the SYRIZA MP Pella - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theodoras Jakris to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "The disinvestment of SIEMENS" and the departure of "PITS" to Turkey". The question will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u66	Minister, under the agreement on an extrajudicial settlement signed between the Hellenic Republic and SIEMENS, the latter undertook as a minimum compensation for the damage of the public by its illegal activities and corruption crimes in our country for decades, among other things, to invest EUR 100 million to ensure its continued presence in the country and also to invest EUR 60 million in the construction of a new plant that would lead to employment of more than seven hundred workers. In fact, in the context of this extrajudicial agreement, a direct ad hoc investment committee was set up with its work to investigate with the responsible investment company, as is apparent from the agreement, which involved the construction of a new production plant in Greece, a project worth more than EUR 60 million which would lead to employment of more than seven hundred workers, which is identified by administrative correspondence at the PITOS plant in Rentis. In fact, for eighteen months, the Committee met from September 2012 to March 2014, where, as shown in the Minutes, ‘SIEMENS’ has been completely paradoxical, sloppy and totally funny proposals and is making some strange interpretation assumptions, in order to avoid precisely the obligation to make the investment due. The climax of ridicule and mockery was when, on March 7, 2014, this committee tabled a totally funny, oligoscelid and unspeakable proposal, where the only number registered in it was the number of few pages - fifteen the number - where it was talking about a global skill center for industrial software development. You realise that the EUR 60 million employment plant of over seven hundred has become a global skill centre for industrial software development. This implication leads to a reaction by the service providers of the Investment Committee here, who are addressing the political leadership, the Development Minister and the Finance Minister - Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Stournaras at the time - and inform them that they are actually being mocked by the SIEMENS and that its new proposal is a very genome. For the Minutes, Minister - and it is worth mentioning - I shall say that in correspondence, which was massive, with these political factors, the committee states: Despite the above extraordinary importance of the work of the Committee on Investment and with the sole responsibility of the representatives of the debtor company 'SIEMENS', there has been only marginal progress to date, while at the last meetings of the Committee on Investment's investment company 'SIEMENS' began to rely on paradoxical - at least interpretative - on the contents of the contractual obligations to the Greek State. The conclusion of the above-mentioned misinterpretations and misinterpretations is its submission from February 6, 2014. The central idea of this investment proposal is the creation of a global skill centre for industrial software development. However, the great and unjustified delay in the submission of the proposal, as well as in the event of the infinite presentation of its content, raise serious doubts about the real intention of ‘SIEMENS’ to honour its above contractual commitments and proceed with the investment due in Greece. In view of the transfer of this investment proposal to the second Minister for Finance, Mr Stournara, on the basis of Article number 78 of Protocol No 78 on the document to be assessed by the public limited company ENTERPRISE GREECE, we note that this entity was invited on our own initiative and on several occasions at all the critical meetings of the Investment Committee, attended by a representative and has already been informed, in detail, of the full content of the investment proposal submitted to the Siemens. Therefore the deposit of the assessment report of the said entity should be requested in the next few days.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u67	You need to finish it, my colleague. Go on to your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u68	Wait a minute, Madam President. "I think that it is incomplete..." - says the committee - "any continuation of the process of the Investment Committee, without a prior formal demonstration of it to date as unconventional and contrary to the good faith of the responsible German company. As a result of the seriousness of the issue, the general context and the very pressing contractual timetables, please indicate the appropriate way of protest, in order to establish the most appropriate political and legal act of representation of the Greek state for the unconventional behaviour of ‘SIEMENS’, which is at least passive.’ Minister, I do not know - unless you know - was there an official response from the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u69	Madam Colleague, please, you have to go to your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u70	Did he raid the company? Did he send her a document? Did he take any judicial action?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u72	He didn't do any of this, and that's all he recommends...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u73	Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, the Bureau is addressing you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u74	... the investment in ‘SIEMENS’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u75	Madam President, when the Bureau speaks to you, I think you should stop and listen to what the Bureau says. I think so. You are an old parliamentarian and you know the Rules of Procedure of the House. Please. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Jackie, I am surprised by your question. It really amazes me! I am also amazed at the speech I have just heard. Mostly I am surprised that for a period of time you yourself have been Minister for Industry, yourself, personally. So it is impossible that you do not know the paper I am now tabling on the Minutes. There's a department at the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and I'm filing it. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In particular, it writes the press release and the transfer of all the shares of the company ‘SIEMENS’ by the company ‘BSH’, i.e. the company which is the parent company of ‘PITSOS’. Therefore, from 2014, ‘SIEMENS’ and ‘PITSOS’ have absolutely nothing to do with this. Who knew that for sure? The SYRIZA government knew. Why does it turn out that the SYRIZA government knew? Because if what I am telling you now is not true for five years, the Ministers for Industry - that is to say you - and the Ministers for Development, your colleagues Mr Stathakis, Mr Skourletis, Mr Papadimitriou, Mr Haritsis and others, had not forced SIEMENS to proceed with the investment in PITSOS, they would be guilty of the crime of infidelity. You are not guilty of the offence of infidelity, nor of you or your colleagues in SYRIZA, because during the course of your administration, that is, 2015-2019, the transfer had already been made of the share capital of SIEMENS from PITS to BSH, so SIEMENS was not linked to PITSOS and therefore the PITSOS plant could not be the subject of any compromise between the Greek State and SIEMENS. Otherwise, I repeat, if what I am saying is false, all the SYRIZA ministers involved who have also personally been persecuted for infidelity will have to be persecuted. I am not asking for this because, obviously, you are well aware that SIEMENS has nothing to do with PITSOS. Now, because while you know it, you come to the House and do this type of speech, I really do get over me. I will only say something about the Minutes, because to SYRIZA your memory is very short and you have the feeling that you can also be dealt with in the way you were before you ruled. So I read: "Giorgos Stathakis, Minister of State SYRIZA: The closure of "PITSOS" does not show a gap in trust in Greece, but is part of a restructuring of the multinational that controls it." We are talking about the year 2017. Excuse me, Mrs Jackson, in 2017 the SYRIZA Government, with the relevant Minister, announcing the closure of the PITSOS plant in Greece, states that this development is not concerned because it is in the context of the restructuring of the company worldwide and does not concern the Greek economy, and 2020 is the subject of the extrajudicial compromise 'SIEMENS' and the Greek State? Well, didn't Stathakis know in 2017? What are you telling me today? Are we learning from you in 2020? So populism has some limits. And I repeat that you have also ruled as PASOK - I welcome to you here, Minister of State, Mr Ragosi - and as SYRIZA - I welcome you here, Minister of Industry - so you cannot come to Parliament and disguise things so outrageously to me. Now, if you want in denture to have a debate about what went wrong with PITSOS and what can be done from now on, very gladly. But come here and blame me for what you did, I can't stand it! And I've said many times that I'm very trustworthy and I can have a very good conversation with good people. So I answer everyone in protology. If what you said is true, you have to go to jail for infidelity personally. I say you shouldn't come in, because what you said is false. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Minister. Here, my colleague, you have three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Georgiadis, there's an elephant circulating in the room and you're looking on the floor for pins. That's exactly what you're doing. You are the elephant of mismanagement and your party and over time "Mr Stournaras, Mr Samaras and Mr Mitsotakis and SIA", because this is the same group, which, when it comes to eating, is well-settled and then sent after the account to the Greek people, first making sure that they share around - around different crumbs, to convince us that, in any case, SYRIZA is responsible for the mismanagement. It is the timeless history of the Right post-government: government corruption, essentially median paternalism and judiciary, because 'when we come to Anti-Policy, we should in any case not be a little wrong...'. That's the right-wing story. Didn't you do the same with "NOVARTIS"? You had a bag of thieves and ribbons on the one hand, and you tried to convince the Greek people that it was the fault of some judges who did not do their job well, and that is why the judges should, in any case, be to blame. Look, Mr. Georgiadis, you really amazed me with what you're saying. The documents I mentioned to you, and the agreement on extrajudicial law itself, provide for a three-year contractual commitment period for SIEMENS to complete its investment in the plant of EUR 60 million. The shares provided, Minister, relate to the first obligation to ‘SIEMENS’ to increase the share capital of EUR 100 million, which did so in 2012 as it should. He took them out of one pocket and put them in the other. This is the document to which you refer, Minister. Therefore, infidelity only concerns the civilian staff of that time and no other government, because it has passed until 2014. From there, indeed, Minister, you are astonishing me with what you have said, because you have not done anything to make sure - if you want to talk about the substance - this weight, this monstrous crime which is taking place at the expense of the Greek economy and of Greek development. Because, indeed, it is not only that the "SIEMENS" saved the stolen and broker, it is not only that Greek GDP has lost the ability to benefit from the added value that the production of their products means here, it is not that a hundred and eighty jobs have been lost, it is not that other seven hundred have been lost, it is also an undetermined number of businesses - production units, small crafts, etc. - which always, in any case, is around a serious industrial investment. At the same time you helped "SIEMENS" Minister, you facilitated it - your party over time, Mr. Stournaras, Mr. Samaras, Mr. Mitsotakis, you - to save labour costs, but also to gain goodwill by exploiting Turkey's customs union with the European Union, which Mr. Funny things, that is, things that are not dependent on us, things about internal consumption, as you understand. Minister, you and your party will really stay in history as the sponsor of Turkish GDP and the Turkish economy. And not just that, Minister. You will also be an accelerator of the rapid deindustrialisation of the Greek economy. What can you tell us? It's to you that the mayors of SYRIZA are to blame for anyone else. You have this tendency, to acquit the thieves and, in any case, to put the burden on the householders. This is your time course. From there on, what do you say to us, of course, as a poor Minister for the Investment of the New Democracy, of deinvestment, of disinvestment, of the depreciated responsibilities? The Prime Minister removed you from the 90% of your responsibilities, and it was well for you to pay a bulldozer there in the Greek, where the investments leave you every day, in order for some poor man to go through Poseidon and, in any case, to think that growth started in our country. On the substance - and I close with it - you who are supposed to be in favour of development, which you are a most popular Minister, I wonder how you do nothing, you do nothing, do nothing as well - how can I say it? - "thirty-fashioned developer" in order to stop this economic crime, this monstrosity. It is disgraceful, Minister, that there should be a state law and that we should be rubbed - now, on your day, because on no Stathakis Minister, Siemens did not dare to leave - the Germans. Well, what are you going to do? I know the answers. I know why this is happening. It's because they have so many stitches for your government, you don't dare even lick something. It is what the Greek people say, 'they keep you from everywhere'. I, Minister, if a Greek company had done one millimeter of the crimes "SIEMENS" in Greece, would have been excluded from all the Greek competitions and would not have received a cent, if you like, of public money. Would you like us to table a legislative initiative? If you do not take your soul and tremble your soul, we write it down, we testify it together, so that SIEMENS can be ruled out for ever from every competition in our country for this illegal and unconventional behavior. Are you going to do it or are you afraid of getting any photocopies of any checks out of the SPIEGEL? Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u79	Thank you too, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll try to keep my sense of humor for what I've heard before. First and foremost, the agreement with ‘SIEMENS’ was signed in August 2012. The matter of the factory had a three-year duration. Therefore, until August 2015, any government could force SIEMENS on this plant. As far as I remember, you were elected in January 2015. So for six months you have had the margin to do what you have just accused me of. You did not do it for the reason that I explained to you earlier, because it was quite simply not done. Secondly, I am surprised by the following: Mrs Jackson - that is, SYRIZA - told us that we should vote together for a law and exclude SIEMENS from all the competitions of the Greek public. Excuse me, Mr. Pappa, five, five and a half years you have ruled. Why didn't you vote for this law, why did you expect the evil Right to vote for this law and you didn't do it yourself?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u82	Mrs Jackson, you, of course, take it to the right and do not do what the rest of SYRIZA, who say, 'PASOK and New Democracy', do for good reasons. I heard you say, "If I were you...". Madam President, but he was in my place. He was right in my place. I'm the Minister of Development and Investment, and in my portfolio with the so-called depreciated responsibilities, it's the Ministry of Industry and Trade you had. We have the exact same position. Instead of being, Mr. Jackres, in the House and crying saying, "If I were you"...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u83	Why didn't you do it when you were in our place? Why? Because you are a liar and you come here to play with the pain of the Greek people. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] So the story of "PITSOS", which is a painful story, is as follows: In 2009, the company "BSH" bought in Magula a large area to build a factory. Before purchasing the land, he asked the then Magulas Community to give its assent to the change in the conditions of construction to build the factory and build a large production plant in Greece for BSH's products. Then he became the "Kalikratis" and joined Magula and Elefsina. Then mayor Elefsina - SYRIZA - raced and went to his municipal council and voted against the former Malagoula Community agreement with the company "BSH" and thus the company "BSH" stayed with a plot on which he could not build. After three years of attempting this company to consult the municipality about changing the conditions of construction that became incomplete, sold the plot, founded the factory in Poland, where nine thousand workers are now working there, and the other one went to Turkey. This year 2015-2016. In 2017-I repeat - the Minister of SYRIZA Mr Stathakis stated on the day when he announced the closure of the PITSOS plant. Stastakis: "The closure of "PITSOS" does not show a gap of confidence in Greece, but is part of a restructuring of the multinational that controls it". The workers, who are now tired, sent a letter twice to the Prime Minister then Alexis Tsipras without receiving an answer, without accepting them. So it's late for tears, Mrs. Jackrey! It's too late for tears! And since you, as SYRIZA, have been sabotaging this investment from the outset and since, as a government for five years, you have done nothing about the investment, you are now coming and selling us spirit. Let me say something about the workers. I, indeed, have taken the initiative. I don't want to announce any more now, because when a company is in negotiation, the negotiation is not made public. Of course we have taken the initiative and, of course, we are talking to the company to find a solution. But let's know the truth. When Mr. Stathakis made this statement I read to you, there were five hundred people working at the company. Today fewer than a hundred and fifty work, because in the interim they were retired, took the packages the company gave for the voluntary exit. In other words, the company in the three years that have elapsed has landed slowly, but firmly, towards extinguishing, as agreed with the Government of Tsipras and Mr Stathakis. And now you're asking for the change. When our negotiation ends somewhere, then I will announce what we have achieved or have not achieved, trying to solve another problem that you inherited us. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] To conclude, all this picture of SYRIZA and Jackie of economic protectionism and of not going to investment in Turkey, which you said before, I am very pleased to hear. I and your statement on internationalism, Mrs Jackson, and that internationalism is not patriotism and that internationalism is a betrayal I sign it. I applaud you for your statement. I see Mr. Friend now - I've read an article on internationalism - and I want to ask him this: How do you feel, Mr. Friend, that your colleague, Mrs. Jackie, said that internationalism is treason? I've been saying that since I was a kid, but you've been calling me a far-right. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Well, this is a strange thing, Mr. Philly. I'm listening now, and you're all putting up with it. What for? So you don't lose your chairs. This is the Left, and I'm glad to see your real face. And yes, Mrs. Jackrey, you were right. Internationalism is treason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The debate will be taken at No 1/1/15-10-2020 on the current question of the Members of the Radical Left Coalition - Progressive Alliance and so on. Alexandros (Alexis) Harrissis, Nikolaos Friend, Andreas Xanthi, Nicolas Papa, Theanos Foliou, Charalambous (Hare) Mammouris Saraciotis, Eleftherios Avramaki, Ireni - Helen Agathopoulos, Athanasios (Nas) Athanasios, Tryphoon Alexiadis, Stavros Arachovitis, Alexandros - Christos Vardomeni, Georgiou Vardenou, Kalliopi, Christos Giannoumou, Anastasias (Sia), Ioannis Drasaki, Sultanos Eleftheriadou, Ioannis Zachariou, Ioannis, Ioannis Khalinoupolis, Ioannis, Ioannis Kandaliou, Ioannis Kaloulissiou, Ioannis Kaloulioulisiasias, Ioannis - Ioannis Kalou, Ioannis Kaloulisiliou, Ioannis Kaloulisos, Ioannis, Ioannisiasioulisos, Ioannis, Ioannisiaoulissiou, Ioannisiasilisilisilisilisilisilisilisilisos, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannisilioulisos, Ioannisiasos, Ioannisiasos, Ioannisiasos, Ioannisiasos, Ioannisiasos, Ioannis, Ioannisiasos, Ioannisiassos, Ioannisilisos, Ioannisilisos, Ioannisilisos, Ioannisilisos, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannisilisilisilisos, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, The parties appointed as Parliamentary Representatives: SYRIZA Mr Tsakalotos, MP Mr B1' North Athens Sector, New Democracy Mr.Boukoro, MP Mr.Magnesias, Change Movement Mr.Loverdos, MP Mr.B1' North Athens Sector, Communist Party of Greece Mr. Katsotis, MP Mr. B3' South Athens, Greek Solution Mr.Billardos, MP of State and MRA25, MP Mrs. Fotini Bakadamma, MP Mr. The first question has been raised by Mr Alexandros Haritsis, Member of the Messinia Coalition of the Rizzo-Front Alliance, for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think I need to argue about how critical and dangerous things are now in our country, above all, of course, in the sanitary area, with the exacerbation of the cases and, unfortunately - even worse - our intertwined fellow citizens who lose their lives every day, with pandemic testing the limits of the public health system. Unfortunately, the government did not take advantage of the critical time offered by society from the first wave of pandemic, with the responsible attitude shown by society at the time, but also throughout the whole, I would say, the later period since the Lockdown, to strengthen the National Health System, to prepare the safe opening of schools, to plan the operation of social infrastructures safely for everyone. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] On the contrary, we see in health that the ESS remains unarmed with five thousand less staff than in summer 2019. We would expect Mr Mitsotakis to announce, to announce an extraordinary plan to strengthen the National Health System, with recruitment and mass diagnostic tests for citizens. Unfortunately, this has not been done so far. In education, too, things are very difficult. We see our schools open up, up to twenty-seven students per class, without tests, without appropriate masks, with great staff shortages and now, because of cases, we see schools closing one after another. And in transport, unfortunately, the images we see every day are disgraceful images, with citizens stacking in public transport, since the Prime Minister's commitments to increase routes have been disproved once again. But it is extremely critical that the situation is also in the field of the economy. I would remind you that the New Democracy Government has received from SYRIZA an economy which was running at an growth rate of 2.8%. It succeeded - because it was a success - to land growth at 1% by the end of the year, although it had 12 consecutive quarters and, of course, with two consecutive negative quarters, as all economists say - this is the definition of recession - to put the economy back into recession before the coronary comes. Today we are talking about, describing, recording a very grim reality at work in companies throughout the economy. And I'm not just talking about the level of the recession, 15.2% about the second quarter. I am also talking about data, if you want, more qualitatively, which is about the course of processing, exports, with a reduction of 14.2%, of industry 15.1%, wholesale trade 21%, not to mention tourism and catering, where the fall is overwhelming. That's enough 78.8% in August that passed us. Moreover, one out of three employees with a wage below the minimum wage, one out of eight with a wage of less than EUR 200. This is according to ELSTAT's official data. The forecast of the UNHCR, in the annual report published a few days ago, speaks of an explosion again at the end of the year, at 21.2%. At the same time, the situation in small and medium-sized enterprises is dramatic. According to the half-yearly GATT report, one in three companies will soon not be able to meet its basic obligations, while the Greek banks have access to unprecedented liquidity, via the European Central Bank, which reaches EUR 50 billion. However, for small and medium-sized enterprises - and this is the crucial, Minister - until July we had a reduction in loans, a reduction in loans to small and medium-sized enterprises from the banks over the last year, because the increase in global loans only relates to five very large business groups. And what is the government's reaction to all this? Unfortunately it has led to historically low 20 years of the Public Investment Programme in the second half of 2019, it has led to a reduction in public consumption in the first half of 2020, while liquidity is a drop in the ocean, because you may find that the support for the real economy is EUR 7.9 billion, but for the most part what you are doing - and that is not happening in any other country of Europe - it is to sum up uneven things, loans, guarantees and liquidity, things that are nowhere else summed up. Even if we accept that the figures you presented yesterday - yesterday, I think, with the Minister of Finance - are accurate, this money is very little in relation to the real needs of the economy, when business turnover is projected to fall by EUR 50 billion only for the current year, according to a study by the National Bank. And of course, Mr Mitsotakis had spoken - and on Sunday he did this - to strengthen the liquidity of 24 billion in the real economy, which you themselves are actually degrading and thus creating a platific picture of the reality, which, in our view, constitutes an insult to the citizens who are currently accepting the terrible consequences of this crisis every day. It's an image that all goes well, an image that you do what you can. I really want to ask, do you believe that picture you present? Or is the information that yesterday saw the public light that the preliminary draft budget submitted to the House a few days ago has already been thrown into the bells and a new draft budget is being prepared, with a forecast for a recession of more than 10%? SYRIZA from the first moment towards this grim reality, chose to be useful to society. We have tabled comprehensive proposals for substantial support under very difficult conditions. From the first moment, with the program "CONTINU ORTHIOS", following its update, very recently in Thessaloniki, with the speech of the Chief of Officerial Response and President of SYRIZA, Alexis Tsipras, we have tabled comprehensive, costly proposals to support workers, businesses, local government, local economies. For example, I mention the subsidisation of labour for the duration of the crisis, with 40% wage and 100% insurance costs, emergency income for those affected by the pandemic, non-refundable aid to enterprises, reduction of VAT on the focus, a 40% rent for the professional roof, proposals which are actually embracing the concerns of the Greek economy today. You have unfortunately chosen to despair and ignore these proposals, and that is precisely what costs Greek society today, because the possibilities are here, are sufficient. What is no longer an excuse, because, apart from the lifting of the financial restrictions, in addition to the security pillow provided by SYRIZA, we are now seeing the possibilities available from the NRV, and that is why we have tabled this timely question. We'd already warned. I would remind you of a letter sent on 30 April by former Secretarys of the Ministry of Development to the State Secretary responsible and the Secretary-General, in which letter states that most of the costs of dealing with the coronary pandemic can be covered by the NSRF, and this should be done with 100% European funding, without any national participation, without any burden on the State budget, without any bureaucratic obstacles, such as the one we have seen in the management of the European programmes from Brussels and with retroactive effect from February. For example, in the health sector: Recruitment of additional medical and nursing staff, health material and equipment in hospitals including ICUs. In the field of education, recruitment of assistant teachers, diagnostic tests and personal protection instruments for teachers and students. In the transport sector, the recruitment of temporary staff, the supply of trains and buses. Protection of vulnerable social groups, expenditure on nursing homes, prisons, reception centres for refugees and migrants. These are costs which could have been covered by European programmes, which are no longer cofinanced. They are financed purely from European funds. And, of course, for support to enterprises, unrefunded working capital support for small and micro-enterprises on a pan-European scale, non-refundable individual and free traders, rental coverage, wage and insurance costs subsidies for workers, means of individual protection for workers, income support for insecurity and seasonal workers. All of this, too - which my colleagues, who will then be responsible for the sector, who will obviously be more detailed in the area of everyone - could be covered by the NSRF with a critically available space, which was already in existence since April of around EUR 7.5 billion. Especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, Minister, because I have not received any reply yet, and we have asked it many times - the regions very recently received SYRIZA's proposal, have been approved by the European Commission and have been implementing a programme of non-repayable compensation to the regions, to enterprises in their region. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President, for a minute. I wonder why you have stubbornly refused all these months to proceed to a global-wide programme for the non-refundable aid to small and medium-sized enterprises and exhausted your intervention in suspension of obligations and lending, i.e. new additional burdens in the future for businesses. Minister, I hope in your answer that you do not invoke the increase in absorption of the NRP, because of course every comparison with the pre-currency period is lacking in seriousness. This increase is absolutely expected, as the European Union has given unlimited flexibility after the pandemic eruption, flexibility which neither we nor the previous governments could imagine. To be perfectly fair, this is not only about our own government, but all the previous years. At this stage, absorption for absorption is irrelevant. At this stage, what makes sense - especially at this stage - is precisely the use of the funds available to deal with pandemic in all the fields that I have presented to you. Unfortunately, the result to date is completely negative. One last thing. Every day that passes is very critical, society is tested very hard, because fear and insecurity have now reached unprecedented levels. The responsibility of the state and, in this case, your government is enormous. This unprecedented situation cannot be tackled either by communication management or by measures - 'blocks' such as those you are receiving to date. We call on you, even now, to change 'roto' and to take advantage of the possibilities that exist. Flexibility and the removal of bureaucratic barriers to the NSRF will not always apply. They, according to the European Commission, are in place by the end of 2020 and we are seeing them. It's already lost valuable time. We therefore call on you to answer why you have not fully exploited these possibilities at this time, the so crucial to the Greek society, and how you intend, even now, even from now on, to use these possibilities to strengthen public social infrastructure, support workers, support households, support businesses. These answers you must give today and if you do not give them today, you will give them to Greek society tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u87	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the following colleagues from SYRIZA are: Mr Philis, Mr Xanthos, Mr Papapas, Mrs Fotio, Mr Mamoulakis and Mr Sarakiotis. The first three have five minutes and if they wish, they can make use of their dentistry for another three minutes. But I would ask that we be in time, because the debate will take at least four hours. Mr. Philly, would you like your dentistry too?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u88	We'll see. I want your understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u89	My understanding, after five minutes, will be your denology. There's others here listening to us. Otherwise, I'd let you talk by morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u90	In many cases, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u91	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today's SYRIZA initiative to put a timely question about the pandemic and the funds of the ESDP is another practical demonstration of the responsible opposition by SYRIZA at this time when society and the economy are being tested - and I fear even more in the near future - by the pandemic. Because we are not the easy opposition. With proposals from the first day - and today we are insisting on the proposals - we want to improve the strength, the fortification of society, the schools, the education and the economy, which remain undisturbed before the second wave of pandemic, which the experts had anticipated, but the government did not want to hear and thus let the country face up to the problems. Unfortunately, the government is dealing with the problems with communication tactics. We saw yesterday the classified e-mail sent by Maximos to willingly media, to guide, that is, disorientate, the citizens from the real situation they have on the media issue. Shame on such a policy on such an important issue, such as pandemic! With confidence, therefore, we are dealing with the opinion of experts and experts. And we believe that this confidence will be even stronger and it is necessary to be stronger in the future, provided, of course, that some of them do not get the easy inclination to allow their scientific weights to fall into political purposes. So we trust experts. Another science and other political management by the government, which we are controlling today with our question. Ladies and gentlemen, since May we called for institutional consultation with the experts, because the second closure of schools would be disastrous for children and families. June, July, we submitted specific and costly proposals to open schools with health security and pedagogical competence. The Ministry of Education refused every conversation and told us that we wanted to build new buildings in the summer. Another element of the disorientation of public dialogue. Do not compare open schools in France and Germany in the middle of Lockdown, because there are, as you know, sanitary conditions and conditions, such as large and modern halls, which are far away from Greece. This is a different situation in school. We all know her. What was it supposed to be? Since June, we have been calling for school dilution to be started, with the breaking of the largest classes, those that still accumulate ninety thousand students throughout Greece, in sections of over twenty-five to thirty-one children and for simple improvements to be made to the rest, which could be implemented through resources from the NRP. We stress this: with resources from the ESDP! For the needs of deputies, which did not relate to the number and amounts allocated by the Ministry to terrorise citizens, since not all classes were necessary to break, the amounts were eligible by the NSRF. We stress this: Eligibility from the NSRF! There was no attempt to find rooms and teachers. The scientific specificities of parallel support for special education, which have not yet been covered, could be financed in time from the NRP resources. Given that the distance education system chosen by the Ministry of Education in cooperation with the American "SISCO" was perforated, it was necessary to upgrade public systems of asynchronous and modern telecommunications with the pedagogical supervision of the EIP. For example, according to the experts: First, support for increased network movement of the pan-Hellenic school network could be achieved with EUR 2 million, eligible under the ESRB. Secondly, the upgrading of visual fibre network access in the Athens and Thessaloniki Schools, as had been done earlier in a thousand eight hundred schools in the region, would cost EUR 25 to 30 million, eligible by the NSRF, including operating costs for a 15-year period. Thirdly, investment in the upgrading of the school network infrastructure and the establishment of a cloud computing infrastructure would be of the order of EUR 3 million, eligible by the NSRF. Given that many thousands of students will not be able to take part in telematics in any new and unaccompanied closure of schools - already about four hundred schools have been closed in our country - we had already in April, which we stressed, to "run" a programme to supply a cheap laptop or tablet to every student from a low income family, which, otherwise, could then be exploited for the student, with resources eligible from the NSRP. Cleaning workers were able to deal with increased numbers, which are absolutely essential, with resources shared by the state budget and by the ESDP. Especially at universities, it is challenging not to observe one by one in the replacement of academic staff. You have announced two hundred and eighty-two positions all when they have evacuated about nine hundred in two years. This horrifying gap is an attempt to fill with two thousand “compatible scholarships”, as you call it, which will carry out ancillary work with a gallery salary: EUR 650 per semester course. Who thought that? Is that the future that we give to the young children who have finished universities? Is this the practical answer to how young scientists will come from abroad again in our country? On the contrary, "run" is still our program from the NSRF of 2019-2022, with a thousand five hundred posts a year for teaching experience. It could be wide-ranging this year, with resources obviously eligible under the ESRB. For the training of refugees, no refugee is, unfortunately, going to classes outside camp so far. You have them in prison, in dispedagogic and - I fear - an anti-democratic way, in strange places, where you know that there the cramping of cases may be very dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Blonde has the floor now. Mr. Comrade, will you take your dentistry too?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u94	I'll try to avoid it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Friends took two minutes from his denology. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are indeed at a very marginal stage in the development of the pandemic in our country. We've been in a rate of exponential increase in cases. The pressure on the health system is increasing. Of course, we were not safe, as was the basic slogan of the government. And I think that the debate that has now been put in public and the scenarios for a careful partial or generalised lockdown, in my view, is a confession of failure, from the result. The question and the question is how at this stage we are making use of all available resources, human and material - and here it is the subject of the debate - financial tools, namely the European and the ESDP and the Recovery Fund - which also wants a serious plan to be able to absorb resources - in order, in my view, to make a major investment in the public health system, but also in public health services, namely those services that protect the health of the population and do not merely provide nursing and medical care, to strengthen and have a stable and permanent mechanism for reliable epidemiological surveillance, to strengthen public health laboratories and, of course, to intervene in social areas affecting public health, such as transport instruments, school buildings, closed structures for vulnerable populations, refugee centres, etc. So that's the question. The new needs created by pandemic, especially in the health system, are too many: a family doctor. There is a need for systematic home surveillance and care of sufferers, who must not move towards the health system and have good home monitoring and regulation. Urgent pre-private care, EKAB, aerospace, floating spaces, etc. Emergency departments, first line of protection of hospitals. Clinics and laboratories focused on COVID. Of course, the ITHs. Remedy-rehabilitation. Post - COVID medical services for the monitoring of complications that they may have and apparently the literature says there is a need for systematic monitoring of pandemic critics. And of course, mental health, social services, etc. It is a whole range of needs that have emerged with great intensity worldwide and of course in our country. The question is, is there a plan by the government to use the financial instruments, which are clearly more flexible and more accessible, as our rapporteur has said, at this stage, yes or no? Is there a plan for permanent, long-term intervention, a multi-annual plan, for example, in the national health infrastructures? In our view, no. The government basically froze a reform that we had succeeded in starting the previous period in primary care. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Without there being a sectoral health programme in the architecture of the NRP that you set up, without there being a thematic health-related axis, we managed under the poverty-related axis to present a serious plan, to make expenditure eligible, to promote a new reform focusing on family doctors, health teams, community care, prevention and health promotion, a completely new culture missing from the health system. This plan has been frozen for over a year and a half. You have not added one new public structure of the ones that we opened, one hundred and twenty-seven local units. It is therefore undermining this intervention and this programme. You didn't deal with mental health at all. You've just been appointed a Deputy Secretary of State for Mental Health a year later. So all the package of projects, which had been launched, have also been frozen. You abused the idea of mobile health teams that we had established and simply made mobile sampling workshops, with a driver and a nurse. And of course, you have not been particularly interested in the very vulnerable group of refugees - migrants for their health care, to renew the 'PHILOS' programme with which we have managed to make use of European resources, etc. So, and I am closing down with this, and on the issue of the management of the ESDP, in our view, there are two distinct political plans. One political project says that we take advantage of the crisis as an opportunity for a great deal of action that reduces inequalities, strengthens the public health system, the social state, the real economy, supports small and medium-sized enterprises, workers affected, etc. There is also the other political project that says I am making use of pandemic as an opportunity to compress labour rights and to make a oligopolistic restructuring of the market. That is the truth, and on this we have tabled a documented alternative plan, which is really a way out of this crisis, with society standing up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u97	Thank you. Mr. Poppas has the floor. So far only Mr. Friends has been on the line.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would say, Minister, that it is unfair for you to be here today because you will suffer criticism for the Ministry of Infrastructure too. I would also say that you should send these e-mails, which guide electronics and explain exactly how to make their criticisms against Tsipras, and the Minister of Infrastructure, so that they do not say inaccurate and inconveniences on television. Or rather, you're sending them to him and he says inaccurate and inconsistent. And I am going straight to the point, because unfortunately, time is limited. No planning for transport. Nothing. There is no planning for transport, no provision for human resources and equipment. And, listen - from last year to year, the elements of his own body show two hundred fewer routes a day and four hundred less shifts a day, in the middle of a pandemic. Watch what you're doing. Yesterday I was in the U.S.S. I went to Ruff in Philadelphia. Two hundred seventy vehicles with small repairs can go on the road. We don't. It's the president of the engineers, the technicians of the U.S.A. Two hundred seventy vehicles! It's criminal responsibilities, look out! And these repair vehicles that last three days to a month. In addition, there are vehicles which are just waiting in line. What are they waiting for? They're waiting for a driver. Make a brave move, remove the secondment of the OSH driver you have in your office. You have a driver in your office, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u99	You don't know? Because I have the decision here, I will testify to it for the Minutes. And tell Mr. Karamanlis that it's immoral to have four OSH drivers in his office. Can you hear me? He's got four OSH drivers in his office, man. I wonder if they can keep social distances in there. I am going to make a statement on the Minutes. So there are guides to OSH and to the office of the Minister of Transport and Infrastructure and to your office, Mr. Georgiadis. It would be an act of bravery, when you take the floor, to commit before the National Representation that the guide of the OSH tomorrow morning will go to take a trolley and serve. Fifteen people are in ministerial and parliamentary offices! Here are all the decisions. You'll have to show basic responsibility. Thank you very much. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] No one really knows where to start. This is criminal indifference, which, of course, is drunken. Because you wanted to show that the infrastructure is not sufficient to provide the service for the work required for people, the one and a half million of our fellow citizens who use urban transport, to go to make the contract with the CBELs, which you have not yet given us. You're holding her. We have asked for it through the parliamentary procedure and there is nowhere! So what do you have to do? First, right now to withdraw driver distractions. Second, you can repair the minor damage of the hundreds of seventy buses and the hundred trolleys that can serve. Instantly publish driver and engineer positions. Mr. Voridis did so when he wanted to pick up veterinarians for swine flu. Do it immediately. Transparently, with ASP procedures, with cross-party control. Don't make this opportunity for opaque recruitment. Do not tell me that there is no institutional framework, because there has been the relevant MFF since mid-September. Reopen the competition for the seven hundred fifty buses. One minute, if you allow all of the issues of the Recovery Fund. In its communication of 17 September the Commission urges Member States to continue with mature projects. You guys did exactly the same thing backwards. You have canceled everything since the political change and the elections in July 2019. Sit down and look and promise a number of things that can't be crossed by the Commission's services. Where to start and where to end. From the BOAK? E65? The Father Tower? Castle's airport? The subway of Thessaloniki? Zero. Instead of realising that the infrastructure sector, because it does not prejudge the meeting of too many people working in it, could be a way out to keep our economy, to form jobs, to collect the public, to have an increased stock of infrastructure, instead, you have frozen everything. That's what I think he'll be after you. You haven't submitted the plan, of course. I list the countries that have tabled it. We learn from leaks that you will table February, March: Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Croatia, Czech Republic, Portugal, Romania, Austria, Sweden, Finland, Poland, Slovakia, Bulgaria have submitted their proposals for the Recovery Fund. Why are you stalling? Because this is also subject to the logic of the immunity of herds in the economy. Andreas Blonde said so, coming down. You are aware that you will have the whole world now from the financial instruments. You're giving him north of the bankrupt to his creditors, and you're keeping the money for those who survive later. The recovery of the economy cannot be done on ruins. You know that, but you have also been subjected to those who have gently written the Pissaridis report and characterises the Greek companies as "zombies". You're going to pay a great price. You will also taste the disapproval and outcry of the Greek people for these choices.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u100	Mrs. Theano Fotio has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u101	I would therefore ask you, Mr Ministers, in relation to the ESDP on welfare and social cohesion. Since July 2019, for the last sixteen months, you have been frozen and have not extended existing NSRF programmes for social cohesion, such as the two hundred and forty-five community centres established by SYRIZA and had to cover the municipalities with a population of more than ten thousand. In particular, you did not extend them to nineteen municipalities in the Peloponnese, because the then regional director did not benefit. However, community centres can today, in pandemic conditions, be the digital co-ordinator of each municipality, for actions to support citizens in social grocery stores, pharmacies, aggregations, etc. I would like to ask you, Mr President-in-Office, why you have allowed it to be lost to date, eight months after the beginning of a pandemic, the only chance that you have been given, that you do not respect the constant preconditions and heretics of the NRP, and above all, for those groups affected by the crisis - elderly, children, women, disabled and incapacitated - you have done nothing, because you are not interested anyway. You were given the opportunity to extend existing programmes and start up new ones. You didn't do any of this. On the other hand, you have frozen the planned programmes, and you have not supported existing ones, as I will prove. First, for the elderly, you froze a hundred and fifty full-time care centers, OFELI, designed by SYRIZA. It's about two million elderly. They were approved by the European Social Fund. They had joined the FPI, at a cost of 25 million. The 50 OFILI Centres operate within the Community Centres with social workers and psychologists and coordinate the structures that deal with the elderly, the third age, i.e. KAPH, KEFH and "Help at Home" for creative employment, medicines, monitoring, cleaning, shopping, eating, etc. If you hadn't frozen them for sixteen months now, you could, with the new directives, have done them for all the municipalities. You understand the benefit. You could also have strengthened the daily care centres of the elderly KIFH by staff as you multiplyed them to municipalities that, while having the infrastructure, had not joined the NRV. For the disability you have been frozen for sixteen months now, approved by SYRIZA and included in the SYRIZA sixty Supported Living Housing Pensions for disabled and long-disabled people. In total, 51 million for two thousand three hundred people. This action creates small houses for disabled people, ensures their future and ends their parents' agony without entering the institutions. Thirdly, for the child and mother you left on paper 16 months now a hundred Family Support Centres, costing 21 million for all families, integrated in the MAGP. The Family Support Centres deal with domestic problems and will be served with social workers, psychologists, etc. Today because of pandemic with increasing domestic and racial violence you understand that this would be a refuge for every family. You did not implement them while you could not only have them in operation, but you could multiply them. Of course, to increase the funding of the CIDs and CIDs in the midst of a pandemic, leaving sixty-five thousand children out. As for extreme poverty you have done absolutely nothing and left ponding resources in the Roma regions. Alas. Now you left them without health support and armour in miserable camps and, at the same time, no word about relocating them to settlements with human conditions designed by SYRIZA. But I would ask you, Mr Ministers, and for the new NSRF programmes that you have not submitted under the new regime for eight months while you were able to do so. That is why we are proposing three programmes. Firstly, for the disabled and in the long run, it is suffering from the NSRF to finance the electronic disability card, which will act as an electronic pass, linked to the electronic file of the disabled person, which we have done. With this the disabled will get digital what he deserves: health and welfare benefits. Secondly, it ensures free access to means of transport and to public, private, such as banks, etc. Thirdly, it will ensure support services, through the caregiver and at the same time its participation in workshops, sport, the Internet. This will strengthen the autonomy and accessibility of the disabled. Second programme for the child and mother. To be financed by the NSRF in structures and vouches, universal care for children and mother, from the period of pregnancy to adulthood, with benefits comparable to the needs of each age phase. In other words, for children between zero and four years of age, vouchers for all nursing children and if there are not enough places, take them certified to take care of the child. For children between four and twelve years of age vouchers for CIDs and CIDs and creative employment structures. For children six to twelve years old vouchers for cultural and sport structures. Finally, for poverty that is increasing every day, using a prepaid card for everything currently provided by the TEVA, which is going too late and is not absorbed, to obtain food from the market, without the delays of the TEVA. It is something like what we have done to tackle the humanitarian crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u102	Mr Mamulakis has the floor for three minutes. If you want the time of your dentistry, you'll have two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it's not the shipment that crushes you, but it's the way you carry it. And surely, it's not discharged through leakages and journalistic information in direct connection with Maximos. It is a comment that is also topical, but I think it is inextricably linked to what I will quote further in the reduced time given by the regulation. The Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, number 558 of 2020, introduced specific measures to provide exceptional flexibility and the use of European Structural Investment Funds to address the pandemic crisis in COVID. Any expenditure implemented and declared within 2020 shall become budgetaryly neutral and shall be fully reimbursed to the funds of the country by the European Union. The opportunity, therefore, to implement a comprehensive financial support package for the economy is great and should not be untapped. Unfortunately, however, at this point to say that, in discussing the market's own stakeholders, what we are observing is that the measures taken so far by your Government are nothing but complete, holistic and universal is indeed in the companies that are affected as far as possible throughout the seven months period, in small, very small and medium-sized enterprises. After all, the bodies with whom they have a continuous interaction and odourism show this and they keep pointing it out. At this point, let us say the following. The regions also had to come in, be in line with the SYRIZA programme, which we have already mentioned in good time with the 'Mixed upright I' programme and 'We are standing II' programme, to assimilate it, to propose it to the Commission itself and, of course, to accept it. In other words, these solutions to the government's solution were adopted. And, indeed, it is worth wondering that the government chooses to allow time to pass and does not take advantage of this great potential at national level, a possibility which it finds well-being and really responds - I mean the effort of the regions - through this movement, which was simple, practical and, above all, effective for small and medium-sized enterprises. Because - I stress it once again - all the guarantee instruments and tools that were submitted to the public sphere in the previous year have not touched this critical group of small and medium-sized enterprises, which, as you well know, are eight hundred thousand in the country, with an average of 1,72 employees per company, and so, indeed, it is the backbone of Greek society. Of course, it is in all of this that the bankruptcy code is coming in additionally. The intention of not taking advantage of all the possibilities which the government has in its hands is rather the same. One thing only happens: speeding up the realisation of small and medium-sized enterprises' assets to the benefit of larger business structures. So, here in all the momentum that prevails, your will has been demonstrated in the most unequivocal way with the Banking Code, which was essentially the tombstone of all these small and medium-sized enterprises and all other efforts to strengthen them with really rational tools. In my dentistry I will mention good practices that exist in Europe and with specific examples, mere, measurable and acceptable. And, of course, there is a differentiation with your own policy, which I think is quite clear in terms of strengthening certain major economic areas and not just of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u104	Mr Sarakiotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. The debate today concerns the lack of resources available from the NSRP to deal with the pandemic. The health crisis undoubtedly has economic and social consequences. So we must take account of the international organizations' directives to combat it. The OECD in its report on 4 May stresses: 'The conduct of a coronary test is a way of removing restrictive measures', while the World Health Organisation, as early as March, points out: 'We are sending out a simple message to the states: 'test, test and test'. And because you claim that we are in the highest positions in terms of managing the pandemic compared to other countries, let us see what is actually happening in this very critical area. According to official figures, at the beginning of the pandemic, on 30 April this year, Belgium carried out 1,67 tests per thousand inhabitants, Portugal 1,33 and our country only 0,22. Recently, on 25 September, Belgium carried out 3,1 tests per thousand inhabitants, Portugal 1,91 and our country only 1,02. And to come to today, on 26 October Belgium did 5.6 tests per thousand inhabitants, Portugal 2,77 and our country only 1.7. But who are those bodies who could bear the burden of carrying out a large number of checks, thus restricting the pandemic, but if there were political will and the corresponding funding? Of course, our research centres, these centres thanked by Mr Mitsotakis in spring, have given them congratulations. Then, of course, he forgot about it and abandoned it. And as you know, Minister, since it is up to you, the Greek research community has proved its potential in recent months and you have insisted that you understate them and support them. And I'm not saying it. They tell you in a series of letters to Ministers, to Maximos and to the public by the leaders of our country's top research institutions. The professor of the EMCDDA and one of the coordinators of the action, Mr. Gorgoulis publicly wonders: “Do we have more? Does the country not need our services?' Mrs Stylianopoulou, President of the Institute of Pasteur, has revealed that they were carrying out checks using their reserves, as your Government was deaf and indifferent to the signing of contracts. It is now clear that you are deliberately not using any financial instrument to support scientists who are the key to dealing with the pandemic. Instead of supporting the country's research potential, which has proven itself to be capable of carrying out thousands of diagnostic checks every day with credibility, scientific adequacy, but also the minimum financial burden on the public, you even understand the core of the health crisis as an opportunity to serve strong economic interests. And I ask you, Minister: can there be a plan to tackle the pandemic without financial support and the contributory role of the Greek research community?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u106	Thank you. As you can see, all the SYRIZA colleagues have a second version. So now we are going to continue with Mr Tsakiris, Secretary of State for Development, shortly after the Minister for Development. Parliamentary representatives will continue, then we will go to secondary and, at the end, to secondary parliamentary representatives and Minister, if any, from SYRIZA and New Democracy, and the process will be completed. Come on, Mr. Chakiri, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I would like to make two comments. First of all, I should like to refer to someone said by Mr Philis and Mr Pappas in relation to infrastructure projects. And I would like to bring an example, an infrastructure project, through what he mentioned, which matured and left the services of the ESDP - if I am not deceived, in September 2019 - and yet this work has not been compromised. And the reason is very simple. Because there is a L.4412/2016, which is indeed a brake on any infrastructure project or supply of the Greek State can be done. The second point concerns the non-refundable support for the regions. The regions do not speak with the Commission and do not receive approval from the Commission. Regional programmes are ESDP and are supervised by the Ministry of Development. These actions were requested by the Ministry of Development to the Commission and given. All these actions are part of a larger plan to tackle the economic consequences of the pandemic and are part of it. The beneficiary, who may be a restaurant in Halkidiki, is the same as the non-refundable advance of the Ministry of Finance financed by the NSRP and the non-refundable aid financed by the region. So everyone's not doing anything they want. Both regions and the Ministry of Development face the economic consequences. Now, at the beginning of the pandemic, the government has announced immediately measures within the framework of the common European strategy, aimed at protecting public health, strengthening the productive fabric of the economy and restoring the recession, notably through the support of workers and the liquidity of businesses. The Ministry of Development and Investment, taking advantage of the possibilities of the Temporary European Framework for State Aid - and the Commission has often pointed out that Greece was one of the first countries to request various actions and programmes - proceeded to design specialised interventions to address the impact of the pandemic. The actions launched are implemented with a significant contribution from the Operational Programme "Enhancement and Entrepreneurship", the PAENEC, the Operational Programme for the Development of Human Resources, Education and Lifelong Learning", as well as from the Operational Programme "Reforming Public Sector 2014-2020", thus strengthening the real economy and liquidity of enterprises. The overall added value of the measures announced so far by the government, taking into account the leverage of private resources, is close to 14% of GDP. This figure, which is close to the average of the Member States, is particularly important given the budgetary constraints and the size of the Greek economy. A significant part of the public contribution to the measures to address the economic and social impact of the pandemic came from the co-financed programmes of the ESDP. And I'll report in detail below. As far as the use of the NRP is concerned, the Ministry of Development and Investment immediately, as provided for in the Temporary Framework of State Aid, proceeded with the revision of the operational programmes of the NRP by redistributing the available resources. Of these adjustments, resources of EUR 1.5 billion have been used - and it is very important, I note - without disturbing the existing programming of operational programmes, ensuring on the one hand the optimal use of resources and, on the other hand, the uninterrupted continuation of NSRF actions and projects without any response, including the prior leadership of the Ministry of Development and Investment. In addition, sectoral and regional programmes were given the opportunity to overcompensate the programmes' available resources and to integrate additional actions to further support the regions, just as Mr Haritsis of the former Secretary-General for Public Investment and the ESDP Mr Kokkolis said: we went to overcompensation. The total budget of the integrated projects in the operational programmes of the NRP, as it was in place during the first phase of the pandemic, amounted to EUR 20,8 billion. However, the total budget of the integrated projects in terms of total public expenditure, which is the budget that the Public Investment Programme is required to finance, including ineligible costs of each project, amounts to approximately EUR 25 billion. I also note that the total budget for the integrated projects in the NRP today, that is to say, end October 2020, is EUR 26.2 billion, overcoming the available resources by 122%. That's the overcompensation. The contracts for registered projects amount to EUR 18.1 billion, while the costs to date amount to EUR 9.7 billion. Here it is worth noting that the expenditure incurred and declared by our country to the European Commission from July 2019 until today is equivalent to the total expenditure incurred in the previous five and a half years from the start of the ESRB until June 2019. In the same direction - and it is important to say this too, because there is the biology of the sub-implementation of the Public Investment Programme - the implementation of the 2002 Public Investment Programme, both in the co-financed and in its national part, has been fully activated in the direction of strengthening the recent needs due to the pandemic and overcoming the approved annual limits. And to tell you some figures, the payments of the co-financed Public Investment Programme at 30-9-2020 are at 93.6%, while the National Investment Fund at 99.92%. In fact, in order to meet the increased funding needs and the increased rate of implementation of the Public Investment Programme, the 2020 budget vote the Public Investment Programme has increased by EUR 1 billion and a further increase of EUR 1.5 billion has been launched. It is also important to mention that additional funds of EUR 2 billion are expected by the European Commission in the next period through the REACT programme, after its regulation has been finalised. These resources will be directed respectively for economic aid measures. More detailed and with a view to addressing the health crisis immediately and effectively, the Ministry of Development and Investment has designed a comprehensive package of actions aimed at all the policy sectors affected by pandemic. The ESRB's actions to combat the consequences of the pandemic and to strengthen the economy and society can be summarised as follows: Key actions amount to EUR 6.5 billion, including: a package of state aid actions totalling EUR 4.6 billion, which concerns the provision of guarantees, the subsidisation of the rate of information loans, as well as the repayable advance. Financial assistance for self-employed and small enterprises up to 20 employees, totalling EUR 420 million. Recruitment of doctors and nurses and supplies of necessary health equipment in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, a budget of 750 million euros. Support the education sector through recruitment of assistants for educational and health equipment, a budget of EUR 500 million. In more detail, the measures, with regard to businesses and workers, are the repayable advance that, until now, through this measure, has invaded the real economy of EUR 3.1 billion, of which 900 are from ESDP resources in two hundred and four thousand enterprises. The total available funds for the third and fourth cycles will amount to EUR 2.1 billion. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, if I may, I have two minutes. I won't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u108	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u109	The second measure concerns the grant of interest on existing loans from affected small and medium-sized enterprises, which has been subsidised for four months by 100% for all the information loans from small and medium-sized enterprises. Here I am opening a parable to say that all these measures, as foreseen in the Temporary Framework for State aid, have been launched retroactively since February. Although some of the interest rates were paid in May, they started counting as early as February. Business Guarantee Fund: The fund budget concerns guarantees of new working capital and currently amounts to EUR 1.78 billion, which will leverage around EUR 7 billion in loans to small and medium-sized enterprises. For the time being, the first round of disbursements amount to EUR 3.1 billion, representing five thousand five hundred businesses. So it's not the five big companies, it's five thousand five hundred companies with an average loan of about 130,000 euros. Loaning of interest-rate capital through TIPS: This programme concerns the granting of working capital to up to five years with interest-rate subsidy for the first two years to 500,000 euros. The current budget of the measure is at EUR 832 million, of which EUR 1.3 billion of the total budget of the TPIX is financed from the NRP resources. Overall - because when we are making financial products, we have also leveraged private resources, i.e. bank resources - the sums involved will be around EUR 2.6 billion and the companies that have benefited so far are another thirteen thousand eighty-six companies. Going below, special purpose compensation to self-employed persons of EUR 420 million and benefited five hundred twenty-five recipients. In addition and in addition to these horizontal actions and in close cooperation with the regions, the new state aid scheme I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, in the framework of the European Commission's Temporary State Aid Framework, totalling EUR 1.5 billion, was submitted and approved in close cooperation with the regions in order to support very small and small enterprises with direct grants for working capital. I have more to report, but I'll close. In conclusion, I would like to confirm once again that all available resources, both of the ESRB and of the Public Investment Programme, are fully exploited even by overcompensation, so that not only will the needs of the day or week of business be addressed, but at the same time there will be preparation for the future for the recovery that we all expect to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Minister. If some of your speech did not tell you, you can submit it to stay in the Minutes of the House. The Minister has the floor for 20 minutes. Let me remind you that you have a ten-minute dentology and a five-minute tritology, if you want to use them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to agree that we are at a very critical moment. We all understand where Greece is, where the rest of Europe is today, what measures we need to take and what we need to do to avoid the worst. I would like to reply in good faith to Mr Xanthos, who said that these measures are a confession of failure. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, you mean that Spain, which is in general lockdown and has exceeded one million cases and has declared the whole country in a state of national destruction with Podemos government, has failed. You mean that Germany, which, since 2 November, confessed and announced almost overall lockdown, has failed. You mean that France in general lockdown has failed. Israel, which is in the ninth week of a general lockdown, has failed. You mean that the Czech Republic, which is from the day before yesterday in a general lockdown, has failed Mr. Mr. Xanthi, I want to be with you very honest. I respect you and respect you as Minister. I think you're too wronged by such reports. We're living a global disaster. That's the reality. In this global disaster, thank God, Greece is still doing better. If we had a damage in Greece, without comparison with other countries, and you said that, one could say that you are right. But when these happen on the planet we live everywhere - yesterday, Melbourne came out of a 100-day-old lockdown - and you come here lightly and say that this is a confession of failure, I beg your pardon. As far as Mr Philly's criticism is concerned, I just want to say a few words. Mr. Philie, you know, because you're a diligent man, that schools in all the traces that have been made are not responsible for the spreading of the coronary. This is why they remain open even in Thessaloniki, which has stricter measures or anywhere else we find ourselves in red. The official evidence submitted to the Ministerial Council is that there is a 0.03% proliferation of a coronary in schools, according to scientists. So, I repeat, schools don't close. They're considered by the experts absolutely safe. So in reality all the criticism and concern you have addressed to the Minister of Education - wishing her and passing - has proved to be wrong in practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u112	I'm telling the result. As regards comparison with other countries and rooms, I will refer you to a dialogue between Mr Dermitzakis one morning in SKAI when he said that in Switzerland the students are twenty-five in each class. And when they told him that Switzerland has larger rooms - what you said before - it said: 'No, it has smaller rooms'. You can watch the video. I'm not in Switzerland. I haven't been to a school in Switzerland. I'm convinced by what Mr. Dermitzakis said. However, in any case, the reason why experts told us that we should not close schools, because tracking has accepted that schools are not responsible for the dissemination of the coronary. And I want to say that from Stepma, so the parents who listen to us don't worry. It is good news that the coronary is not spreading until now. It's spreading elsewhere. You will be listening to the statements made by the Prime Minister today and to the measures that will be taken on the basis of the information that scientists have come up with. We do not, therefore, have to oppose things completely unequivocally. I would like to say a few words to Mr Pappas, to come back to the question which I consider to be important, and it is good that has happened. First of all, Mr Papapas, you personally criticise the Mitsotakis Government for giving a line to newspapers, for there to be an empathy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u113	Is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u114	The answer is he doesn't give. You know very well, Mr Pappa, that there is a businessman named Kalogerica who has accused you personally of intervening in order to establish a newspaper, 'DOCUMENTO'. He has accused you of using Hury Brothers' secret money to insult Mitsotakis, Me, New Democracy etc. When you're personally involved in this, this type of criticism avoids it for reasons of elementary empathy. If you don't have that consciousness, you have a serious political problem. Let me say one more. Oh, it was Mrs. Jackie's. It doesn't matter. I'm leaving it. Ms. Jackie's insignificant. I come to the question. I repeat that it is useful that he has been filed. It allows us to make a reasonable talk of civilised people with normal arguments. What's the question? What's her core? What do you ask? You ask whether Greece has taken advantage of the ESDP, European funds in the midst of COVID. The main argument put forward by Mr Haritsis is that it will be easier to overcome the much faster absorption of the NRP over these days. Here, we are not having a general conversation about the ESDP. I challenge you, Mr Haritsis, to present a new question in general for the NRP. It's good to have this conversation. Because on the first day I went to the Ministry I received a letter from Commissioner Han, which warned me that this is the first time in Greece's history that we risk losing money from the NSRP - the relevant letter has been published, if you want, when you ask the question, I will submit it in the Minutes - blaming the previous government that it has remained extremely back in the absorption of the NSRP. Our greatest concern at the Ministry since the first day was whether we could absorb the NRP and today we are extremely pleased that we have reached these extremely high absorption rates. So a general question for the ESDP would be very helpful if you dare! Needless to say - and this is how I refer to it - the SYRIZA administration has done so badly! Impressive, terrible! I'm closing the parentheses. I now come to the core of today's debate. Let us now stay in the current and then come in general for the ESDP. What does SYRIZA ask? It asks whether, during the pandemic, Greece has exploited European resources in a good or not way. And on the argument that because of COVID we increased the absorption of the NRP, it is wrong for this reason: the other countries had the same new institutional framework because of COVID, but we did better than the other countries. So I make the first paper on the Minutes. ‘In the first of the European Union, Greece in the management of European resources of the NSRP, according to the EU's figures’. Didn't you see it? You saw it. You know the evidence. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Does it make sense to argue between us and say: 'I am a fantastic Minister, you are no, you are a bad Minister'? That doesn't matter. Significant in numbers have the data. Greece, according to the official information of the Commission, therefore ranked second in all the countries of the European Union in terms of the size and speed of absorption of European resources for the ESDP. So, in essence, I could finish my speech here by saying: The answer to your question has come from the Commission. We have done very well, in fact we have understood the second position vis-à-vis all the countries of the European Union. Indeed - I stress it - so as not to escape from the argument 'covid helps you', and the others had COVID and the others had the same institutional framework, but we went better than the others. I would remind you that the Guarantee Programme launched by the Ministry of Development and Investment is the first corresponding programme that has been able to enter into operation throughout the European Union. We have therefore been given special congratulations from the Commission. There are other countries that have not yet put it into operation. I must say to you - and I am happy about that, and I am also honoured for my term of office at the Ministry - that Commissioner Westager, 15 days ago, in our telephone conversation with Mr Stakoura, told us that Greece, according to the Commission, is an example to the rest of the European countries of the way he made use of the funds of the NRP. But let us see if the measures which the Commission says are in second place, were also effective. Because we may be taking measures, we may be quick, but it will not be effective, so the core of our debate will be there. It's what Mr. Pappas said about it. I don't know if he's got a denture or if he ate it. And if he ate it, give him time to answer - I don't mind - to have the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u115	This is not a decision by the Minister who will give the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u116	I just suggested it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u117	There's a president.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u118	I give it to you if the President accepts my request. So I'm coming back. ‘EUROSTAT: Greece has had the fewest job losses due to Lockdown’. I put the relevant document from EUROSTAT. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now don't start my Pecha List nonsense, 'cause I guess that list didn't buy EUROSTAT. I would point out again: within the lockdowns of all the countries of Europe Greece has had the lowest job losses. Let me make a comparison, let the world hear it. According to data published by the Community Statistical Office under 2% of the employees in Greece, he lost his job. In Spain - I mention Spain because I was bored in those days of Lockdown to listen to Mrs Ahtsoglu and SYRIZA tell us how amazing the measures taken by Spain are because of Podemos obviously - the corresponding figure is over 6.5%! Note that Spain, which you regard as an example of it, is the first country in Europe to lose jobs because of lockdowns. The first! It is Spain, the one you were telling us that we need to follow its example, and I was told by the 'AUTHI' four headlines because I do not follow the example of Spain. Spain - which does not follow its example - is the first country to lose jobs! I submit the data from EUROSTAT for your friends Podemos. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let us generally go to a reference to the economy, to understand a little what this government did in the first phase of the coronary. I stress this because, unfortunately, we are in the middle of the second wave, and so we will be re-evaluating a few months later on how to deal with the new crisis. We are talking about the crisis to date. At the beginning of the crisis - I will submit two publications from 'KATHMERINA' and 'iefimerida' - the Commission's forecasts of what would happen to Europe's economies in the year 2020 have come to light. 'Communion: In Greece the deepest recession within the European Union', 'iefimerida': A shock forecast for a recession of 9.7 etc. In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, this revenue is to be considered as assigned revenue and gives rise to the entry of additional appropriations on the lines which bore the initial expenditure giving rise I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned publications, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I would remind you that on that day - he was still my shadow leader, Mr. Pappas - he had made an almost happy announcement saying that it is impressive that Greece will have a worse recession than Spain and Italy that had these dead and the destruction that we all know and that we had avoided. SYRIZA was almost celebrating the Commission's forecasts. But come on, "God loves the thief, but loves the housewives" and we are the householders' party as we know. So let's go. It comes two months after the Commission: "Moder the recession in Greece in 2020 is anticipated by the Commission". I'm filing that, too. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr Pappas did not make a statement at that time, when Greece went to a milder recession and Spain of Podemos in a worse recession. That's why you didn't have to make a statement from Mr. Pappas, Mr. Pappas forgot. The festivities went to Koumoundourou too, they took the comfort coffee because they realized that once again their predictions went for a walk. So, again, what did our government do? The crisis is starting. What did the International Monetary Fund say? I forgot, Mr. Chakalote, to testify before. It's back in April. 'Provision for a deep recession of 10% from the International Monetary Fund'. I'm filing that, too. What did all the international organizations say? They said that Greece would have the biggest recession across the eurozone for two main reasons. The first reason was its very great dependence on tourism. Therefore, given that tourism would suffer the biggest blow as a product, as an industry - more than it was - would necessarily affect the Greek economy more, since, as a share in its GDP, tourism has a greater impact. The second reason was that, due to its high public debt, Greece could not borrow from the markets at reasonable interest rates so that it could finance the economy and maintain liquidity. So the International Monetary Fund, Mr Tsakalote, comes in its report a month ago and writes - I read to you - 'My credit to the Government for its rapid response to the first wave of pandemic for the appropriate package of support measures' - partly answers your question - 'The government's rapid response to pandemic is commendable. The timely implementation of travel restrictions, the prohibition of public events and other measures have helped to contain the initial spread of the virus, etc.’. For the financial support package it says it is large, timely and appropriate, consisting of mainly temporary measures within the budget, etc. I am tabling the report by the International Monetary Fund, which has also revised its forecasts and from 10% to 9%. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is also interesting to note something else to understand what this government has done to the economy. Both the Community and the International Monetary Fund for all the other Eurozone countries have revised their forward forecasts. The only country in which they predicted the best is Greece! So the only country to convince them that it does a good job and better than the one they expected is Greece! And here you do not have the bravery, you do not have the political culture to say: 'You did something right! One, kid! It's a good one! But if we were, we would do ten right." Okay. We know. I heard before Mrs Fotio, who told us about a series of SYRIZA programmes that this bad right-wing government dared not continue with them or give them the value that they needed. Excuse me, the Greek people decided last summer. He knew all your programs, he took them into his vote. The result is well known. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You and your programs sent you where we know and brought us to implement our own program. If you ever win the power again - I don't see - come and do your own programs. So, concentrating, to speak seriously between us and trustworthy. Two things happen if the Commission, EUROSTAT, the International Monetary Fund and, most importantly, the markets I forgot to mention - because we do not forget that on the markets today Greece is borrowed at the lowest interest rates in its history, and do not say that it is only the great liquidity that the European Central Bank is giving, because you are well aware that this is not the case - they felt that the government was not doing well, that interest rates would have been detonated. Today the markets judge what the institutes find to be doing well, and that is why interest rates are falling. To God, I want to make it clear that with everything I said, I don't mean that we live in no paradise or that we have to celebrate for no triumph. Obviously 2020 is a year of disaster that I wish we had never experienced. Obviously 2020 is a year whose economic impacts will be chasing many businesses and households for many years to come, not only in Greece, but throughout the world. A recent study by EUROSTAT - I imagine you have read it, Mr Haritsis - says that in the European Union 50% of small and medium-sized enterprises are at risk of being closed in the next 12 months. 50% in the European Union! You think this is all about Mitsotakis? So when we live on this planet where 50% is in danger of closing in the next 12 months, a Member of Parliament, who was also a good Minister, Mr Xanthos, cannot come along and say that it is a confession of failure. Here to know where we're talking about. We are and are the greatest world disaster since World War II. So your opposition must be serious and not tax-free. And come to me and tell me that you've considered a measure for the NRP that we didn't think about. What measures did we think? We paid the interest on business loans. We've made bailout programs. We pulled out the TPIX. We made a returnable deposit. We even gave a non-refundable deposit. You said about the regional programmes. But, don't you know that this is supposed to be in cooperation with us? Do you not know that these programmes were launched by my letter to the President of the Union of Regional Authorities, Mr Djitzkosta, at the end of July, where we also set the timetable for when these programmes would be launched and for which the Ministry of Development has notified the committee of the model it prefers to make? What do you think? That the district managers have done them without working with the Ministry of Development? Aren't these programmes included in the global government plans for business relief? How do you say that? You know that. The district managers may have all been elected by the New Democracy, but a phone number you have to get them. So you know that these programmes are in cooperation with the Ministry of Development, and yet you come here and say, "You have seen the district managers who touched the popular feeling and you have not understood it." But is she a serious-level opposition? To close, the year is difficult. Today the Prime Minister will announce new difficult measures. We all need to be careful as much as we can, because a general lockdown within Christmas celebrations everyone can understand the size of financial damage that will cause the economy and business as a whole and therefore how important it is to avoid it. In this national effort, there are no whims and no stones in the jams. I have been watching for the past few days that you have targeted Mr. Chiodra, Mr. Pappas and Mr. Giannoulis. As if for the problems of Greece, it was Tsiodra's fault. The Chiodra has made you happy now! I am pleased that at least Mr. Xanthos has written bithrums for Mr. Tsiodra and disagrees with Mr. Pappas. Fortunately! So let's all be serious. And I repeat, if you have any plans to propose to us or to use the NRP that we did not think about, I undertake to examine it very seriously. I don't claim infallibility, nor the wisdom of the universe. But I reprove fair criticism from my political opponents. Not all international organizations can say that and you can get us some useless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Minister, for the time of your prototype. We are starting with the Parliamentary Representatives. Mr Tsakalotos has the floor for twelve minutes for his protology and six and three minutes for dentistry and tritology respectively. Then there's Mr. Bukokouros, Mr. Loverdos, Mr. Katsotis, Mr. Villiardos and Mrs. Bakadama for six minutes each. We're gonna close this, and we're gonna go to secondary school, and we're gonna hang up with the minister. Here you go, Mr. Chakalote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Watch my mask. I have a debt that hits me from summer to Mr. Georgiadis. Because this mask didn't buy it. In the summer I was on the most beautiful island in Kimolo and a lady who saw me in the central market who dealt with clothes, said to me: “Come here. I want to give you this gift." Of course, it was not a total gift, because he said to me: "But you will also have an obligation. You will give 13 euros to Mr Georgiadis, because that has given me from taxation." I kindly told her that you've probably made a mistake and that it's for Mr. Stakoura. But it seems, Mr Georgiadis, that you are the Minister of her heart and insisted that I give you the 13 euros. Now I don't know, when I give it to you, if you share it with Mr. Stakoura, because of honesty and that you don't just have the responsibility. But it's important because you went to the elections with the medium-range promise. This lady - who was extremely sympathetic - belonged to the middle layers, and she felt that she took 13 euros, while most of your tax cuts did not go to people like this lady from Kimolo. And it matters because you were in the elections, both in the middle and in the 'growth for all'. And now that's what we're talking about. Today we are discussing short-term measures. In the future we will discuss the longer-term or medium-term measures from the Development Fund. The key question raised by the SYRIZA Members and by this question is whether, at least in the short term, you keep your promise that this will be growth for everyone. Because the question we asked you had nothing to do with your answer, because we did not ask you a question in general about the ESDP, about whether we are going well, because we are always doing well. We're in first or second place. The question was very specific. Was there money with the new rules of eligible expenditure for the social state, for transport, for education, for health, for which you could use and did not use them? That was the question, and that's what you said nothing about it. You did tell us that if Mr. Haritsis and everyone else make suggestions, you will look at them with great interest. And they made suggestions! I don't know where you were, whether you were playing with the phone or listening. Has Mrs Fotio not made specific proposals for the social state? So the question is: First, why did you not answer the question we asked and answered other questions? I too, because many of these questions were of an economic nature, I am available to discuss them on development and forecasts. But that's not what we're asking you. We ask you: were there eligible expenditure from the NSRF that we could use in the pandemic? We all agree it's a tragedy. You are not right about the government's responsibility. Mr Blonde and the whole opposition were very responsible for our criticism of the first wave. No relation to your opposition. Mr. Mitsotakis for thirty-eight dead from a normal flu had asked for Mr. Xanthos to resign. We didn't make that kind of opposition. And today all six - seven speakers came with concrete proposals and none of them said that yes, that was an eligible expenditure and it would be useful to spend. And I'm going more specifically to figure out why. Because what we want now - in short-term programmes and then in the medium term - is to see not only what we do at all times, but to where we want to go. Do we want to go in two, three years in a Greece that will be different from Greece from which we come from? So it wants a different production base, it wants a different relationship with the social state, with fewer inequalities. And I'm becoming a little more specific. The preliminary draft budget you have tabled - not here, in the European Union, because here we do not make provision for equality - has increased inequality. Mrs. Theanos Fotio makes concrete proposals for the big people either for home care or for people with disabilities who could be eligible costs, to spend them to reduce these inequalities. Hey, you don't! And the question is why don't you do it. The answer I am giving is that you do not care about inequality and you do not follow the world literature, which says - what we believe is not the case - that growth must not be done first and then redistribution, that the inequalities that exist in Western societies are pulling down and growth. But it seems to you that you don't care about that. Now we're going to health, where Mr. Xanthos has made concrete proposals. What does the COVID literature say this time? That these national health systems were either a test or a cleanliness, which solved problems from the perpetrators and did not make sub-contracts in the private sector better with COVID. So when Mr Blonde tells you: 'Let the private sector and what you want to help, at the moment we need a national health system and that needs primary health.' Couldn't you have any money from the NSRF with the new rules spend on health, primary health and other examples that Mr. Xanthos has given? In fact, you did not give answers and I could say about the education that Mr Philis said and about the research that our most productive representatives, Mr Mamulakis, Mr Sarakiotis, have said. Again the failure of neoliberalism around the world at a very low rate of investment - and private investment and public investment as a percentage of GDP - is because there is a lack of public investment that needs in a crisis to raise private investment and research. The private sector in research has also shown itself to be parasitic to public research initiatives. Here's a chance to change Greece, because SYRIZA did things for social policy, and all the indicators improved in four years - indices of poverty, child poverty, inequality - and increased spending on research. Although we were in a very difficult position, we slowly wanted to change the relationship between the economy and society, to promote the world of work, to promote equality as part of the solution and not as part of the problem. And now you don't have much excuses. We all understand that things are really very difficult. And there's a crisis that's a little exogenous. The crisis is not entirely alien, because it has to do with the food chain, about how mass food production and so on. But let us accept that this is an exogenous crisis at the base. You, however, also have an opportunity from the pillow - which we went from Mr. Skolakakis, who said the biggest bulb here and that it is 'necessary pillow' to Mr. Mitsotakis to say 'it is ours' - you have ten years of regulated debt, you have the suspension of the Stability Pact on budgetary matters, you have the Recovery Fund that comes and the question is how you will use these. Will you use all these opportunities to return to the 2009 economy without diversification in production? I told you in my previous speech here about the reproach that the great secret of the PASOK and New Democracy system was that in 2009, i.e. after years of growth, inequality and very great poverty, not after the ten years of crisis, in 2009. If you make comparisons, child poverty, general poverty, inequality, health expenditure, it was low and in 2009. And the issue is, and we ask you: Do you have a feeling that it is a last chance for Greece to use these resources, these opportunities for a different model? Obviously, we will have ideological differences, but you must understand somewhere that major disparities are an obstacle to the economy. You must have realized somewhere that our national health systems have saved us in this crisis, because everyone says there will be other pandemics. And we're very afraid when we hear you don't answer. You have not answered anything about this question. We asked you why you did not use the costs you could from the NSRP for specific proposals. And I would like you, Minister, to be able to answer us in your denunciation. We are very afraid that you have committed yourself to and locked in old ideas and thoughts, before the financial crisis, before the health crisis, where you thought that only the private sector is the solution, when you thought equality was not important, because once the poor were going to win. And that's not a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chakaloto for the time. Mr. Bukokoros has the floor for six minutes now. The other parliamentary representatives will also be followed for six minutes. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, I will not go into the general remarks about the progress of the economy. We have had a very recent opportunity in Parliament on the occasion of the motion of censure against the Minister of Finance to discuss all these issues. I shall be brief on two points. One is what is described in the SYRIZA Members' question of whether funds were used for specific areas in the context of dealing with the consequences of the pandemic. The other is an issue that emerged during the presentation of the question as to whether we have a good health pandemic and the economic impact of this pandemic. First of all, I understand that the position of the Minister of Development is annoying you, because it is not limited to quoting facts, but also makes comments. He told you exactly what you were doing, he told you what governments are doing similar ideologically with you and what the country is doing. To say that we are doing fine doesn't say anything, like saying nothing to you and saying we're messing up. Comparatively, we see what is happening in the rest of Europe, we see what is happening in Greece as well. Is this a difficult situation, as shaped by pandemic? It is, of course, difficult, which is why the country is on alert. However, if we look at the figures with the other countries and especially the countries with the same population as Greece, we see that the cases are less and the pressure on the health system is less, thankfully, and deaths are less. Is that supposed to be comforting? Not at all! That is why the Prime Minister will be announcing a new package of measures to tackle the pandemic this afternoon. Saying the country sucks, I don't know if it's offering to deal with the pandemic. We do not declare either happy or happy that we live in paradise or that there is no pandemic. We are saying that he is a secret, insidious enemy and we are working on all those policy measures that will stop it and deal with it. The figures so far show - compared, of course, with other European countries - that we are better placed and if we had two thousand Intensive Treatment Units today, it would certainly be much less pressure. But, you see, we've received six hundred ICUs, which have reached the thousands. We are ambitious by the end of the year that the Intensive Treatment Units will reach the thousands of two hundred. So we're not reassured. But the evidence doesn't lie. Now, however, Mr Tsakiris, who has confined himself to the census, told you that the financial instruments which have fallen into the fight against the consequences of the pandemic reach 14% of GDP. Of course, we, Mr Haritsis, estimate that the recession at the end of the year will be much less than 10%, much less than 9%, at 8.7%. So you realise that the financial instruments that reach 14% of GDP are something, it is important. We'd like more. Where do these financial instruments come from? It's clear. Did we get any funding directly from the European Union so far to deal with the pandemic? Oh, no. They are the financial instruments that exist in another context, and they are also the cheap lending that the country takes and shows the confidence of markets in the way and in the future of the national economy. That's where the financial tools come from. And, of course, the Recovery Fund will finance the country's definitive exit from the crisis. There it will be exploited, because we also have one tomorrow that awaits us. If we leave with the lowest possible losses from dealing with its pandemic and economic consequences, you realise that the exit from the crisis will be quicker, using the financial instruments that are coming. I shall now refer to these areas. I'll start with the public transport. You have demonized that the virus is transmitted to the public transport of Athens. We see some images, but images don't always tell the truth. Is there really a crowd? There's a crowd, as it's always been. Is the virus transmitted in enclosed spaces that occur overcrowded? Of course it is transmitted, but it is not the sole reason, because if that were the case, how is it explained that in regional cities such as Kosani, Ioannina, the Serres, we have more cases, based on the population? Is there a crowd in public transport too?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u123	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u124	And according to current figures of "Kathimerini", we received seven hundred fifty buses in Athens and today there are thousands of two hundred seventy. I think this shows an increase of over 30% in these means of transport. There could be three thousand, Mr. Philly. That's the eunuch. But what is possible is what is being done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u125	Do we need them? What are you getting at?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Philie, we need buses and buses and it would be ideal and desirable to have 15 students in every room in the country. We say what is possible. The Minister told you that the epidemiologists say that we do not have virus transmission in school and are considered safe.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u127	Where's the transmission?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u128	That's what experts will say, Mr. Philly. I won't say it either. Mr Tsakiris told you that 700m euros were given in collaboration with the Ministry of Health for health and other needs. I have analysed the financial instruments for small and medium-sized enterprises. On October 16, the Ministry of Education says that the recruitment of teachers has reached nine thousand and to be precise the forty - two thousand fourteen. This concerns renewal contracts of alternates, new alternates, completion of recruitment in special education and two thousand three hundred eighty teachers for the needs of the university in schools. I told you about the buses. I told you about the resources allocated to the Ministry of Health, that is, the three points you put to your question. And it's still not complete. 14% of GDP reaches the financial instruments, with data reaching...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr. Bukkaro.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u130	So we still have two months and at the end of the year we will see this unprecedented pandemic that has shocked the world, under the burden of which they are crushing powerful economies, what a health and economic footprint has left in Greece compared to the rest of the countries. Then we will see what the result of government policy is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u131	Thank you. I would like to make a point which was not made by Mr Bukkoro. Excuse me, it's my responsibility. Any colleague who wishes to speak from his position should wear the mask. That is the decision of the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u132	I mean, we should talk under the mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u133	Yeah, if you want to speak from your position, you'll talk to the mask. I'm sorry I didn't say that before. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, I am really tired, talking about the ESDP, of listening to rankings on how to absorb resources from governments and oppositions. For some years now I have said that I will never do that. What am I not gonna do? I will not use some statistics showing how well I am going as a government and how unfair the opposition that criticizes me is, if these statistics do not concern absorption in itself, money on the market. When you talk about it, you need to think about it before you speak for or against. What do I mean 'absorbability'? I mean advances, pre-financing, mid-finance, final absorption. Do I statisticize the regularity of the NSRF or the NSRF in flexibility, due to pandemic, to see that I'm doing very well? We must therefore be very precise, and at least when we talk about numbers, we must all have the same criterion, so that the reason we are articulating can be understood. By making my critical approach to the government for a second time - because our party, the Change Movement, asked in June - July, and I remember what we said then - by updating our critical speech and talking about numbers, before I raise a very specific issue, I see the 8.8 billion euro balance of the 2014-2020 programme and I think: 'Okay, the year ends, the programme closes, there is 'n+3', you will go back to 2023 and have three watermelons, i.e. the rest of this, the new programme and the Reconstruction Fund with its resources, to see how you can do it!' How do you manage, at a time when the market needs money, liquidity, as much as anything else, especially the recession as it climbs and the recession as it climbs again, because of the measures taken daily for one city or another. I hope the country does not go to a general lockdown, like in March, but do without it. Of all the issues in my six-minute term I chose to prepare the issue of 'ESDP and public transport' and why it is timely, because of the pandemic and because it is problematic, ladies and gentlemen, because of the evidence that the government is making public. The number of one million updates to the centre, at Attica, for the use of public transport of all forms - metro, electricity, tram, trolleybuses and buses - and if we add to the big city and Thessaloniki, what is happening there too by public transport, the number is too great. When I refer to Thessaloniki, I cannot look to the left of the Chamber and do not remember the inauguration with the paintings on the walls, with the plastics on the walls and with the mushrooms. I cannot even remember the timely questions and questions we asked in the SYRIZA and ANEL government - I remember Mr Kegeroglu recently making a reference to this, so I have recorded it for many things, for vandalism, the very problematic finances of public transport, etc. When you're criticizing, you have to be okay with your own things. But let's go to the government. The government is our thing. The image of the world "false me, press you" in public transport is a picture that we have all seen. He was filed by the Chief of Officer's Reconciliation with his associate's cell phone photos. But we didn't need them. We all see them in the media. And those who travel through public transport say it everywhere: many with masks, few without them, however, everyone in the public transport is cramped. There was a debate a month ago on the government's readiness in this regard to connecting the NRP to the investments made in public transport, and now, we have the mirrors of 2020 and 2021, we see, dear friends and friends of the government of Mr Mitsotakis, that in 2020 in the preliminary draft budget EUR 4 million is registered as regards recruitment of staff and other interventions in the field of public transport. In the ESRB tables, we don't see any money for buses. How does the Minister come here and tell us that he received from the previous government eight hundred and fifty and took them to a thousand hundred? With what money and how much has the transport been facilitated by this intervention? All of the six more trains - thirty two found, thirty eight have - how easily? Is the problem solved? First of all, where's the money recorded to see if you're mocking us and secondly, where have interventions been born? You who have the NRP, the overall responsibility, can tell us why it has not been recorded in your own tables, this envelope, if the money has come from there. Look, it's one of the very serious problems. You're telling us that there are issues of individual responsibility, etc. Obviously, the whole Chamber agrees. Who's gonna say no? Who won't question unconscious ones? But when there are issues on which government interventions could have already given solutions, you are under control. You are controlled for reduced absorption in the NRP, in this respect, and for no serious treatment of pandemic transport when our country is suffering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u135	Thank you. Mr Katsotis has the floor for six minutes. We don't have any dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. The debate is whether the government also exploited the NSRF to strengthen the public health system, transport and other sectors affected. But let us see what the main criterion of the management of the pandemic is in our country, but also in the other countries. This argument has been put forward here. Is it the protection of the health of the people, by taking all appropriate measures to protect against the spread of the virus? Oh, no. These criteria have a very costly and a little benefit. The management criteria are classic. It is what you are realistically calling it. Those that do not disturb capitalist function and development, adapted to the needs of business groups. The scanning spread across the world with over forty-five million cases, with one million and eighty-one thousand deaths, almost half a year from its outbreak - almost seven hundred deaths in our country - reveals the nakedness of public health systems, even in the most powerful capitalist states, the lack of effective protection measures at home and work, with millions of victims. This strategy is served by the Government of New Democracy and meets - with any individual differences - with the strategy of previous governments and SYRIZA and PASOK. It is the logic of cost - benefiting from capital, profits and their state. This does not allow the needs of the working people's family to be met, it exposes it to any danger, even for his life. The government in the face of the negative development for the dispersal of COVID is challenging behind individual responsibility and convenient comparison with other states facing the same dead ends, because they are promoting the needs of the capitalist economy rather than protecting public health. The NSRF is one of the many rescue and support packages for business groups, which are affected by the turbulence in the capitalist economy, except for the package of anti-corruption measures that implement time-consuming claims of capital. So the government has exploited pandemic and meets these demands of entrepreneurs, further aggravating the lives of workers and the people. In the name of the pandemic, with the legislative instruments and all the legislative framework, it has further crumbled the terms of pay and work of the workers, the very position of the workers. It has transferred money to business groups, in the name of maintaining jobs which have not been maintained, as is apparent from the huge increase in unemployment. It has legislated on generalised flexibility by overthrowing fixed daily time, teleworking with free time to be exploited by business groups, as they want. It continues with the statutory abortion on labour, which has been made public and aims to turn the whole country into a large special economic area of full immunity of capital, a ban on trade union freedoms and abducting every voice that fights for labour rights. He took advantage of the pandemic, not to spend money on the necessary protection and security measures for the people, but to shield the capitalist function and development, the creation of a friendly environment for investors, the monopolistic business groups. This has also been said by the Government representative, presenting the new bill - an abortion, which is necessary, as he said, for attracting investment, which retains and strengthens the European acquis, by abolishing trade union freedoms, by criminalising trade union action, by committing a peculiar offence to safeguarding the strike, by prosecuting those who are fighting. The government misuses the outbreak of pandemic, thinking that it will catch workers in sleep. But she's deeply mistaken. The inspirations of the bill will have the fate of the previous ones, who tried to put on the plaster the greatest conquests of the working class and eventually stayed in history as political cartoons. The history of the class movement teaches that no one can stop the class struggle. Workers, the populace, the victims of this barbaric policy, which leads to poverty and misery, disease and death, must now rise before it is too late. Answering this barbarity can be nothing less than organised struggle for life, health and the rights of workers and the people. Already federations, labour centres and trade unions are in place of battle and strike preparation in the face of the new escalation of the anti-government attack and employers, with the peak of the new bill of barbaric reversal presented yesterday to the Governing Council by the Minister of Labour. By organising the struggle, by strike mobilising, workers claim: Directly recruiting mass health workers in public hospitals, health centers, welfare units, opening up all health units that closed in previous years, opening new beds in public ICUs - three and a half thousand corresponds to our country on the basis of international standards and we have nine hundred and seventy cleansing schools with fifteen children in order, repeated free of charge, according to the scientific evidence and universal vaccination against seasonal influenza, entering laboratories, simple beds and ICUs in the private health sector, and incorporating into the public design, without any compensation to entrepreneurs, education and staff in schools with fifteen children in class, retraining of services in the public transport sector, recruiting workers and ensuring the necessary fleet of vehicles with young repairs and buying young people's money, retraining and restoring public services, guaranteeing all civilisations and delivering jobs, guaranteeing all wage-s and making good-priviled jobs, guaranteeing all wage-priviled jobs, guaranteeing all wage-priviled and wage-priviled employment-priviled and wage-priviled businesses, guaranteeing services, guaranteeing, guaranteeing all wage-priviled and wage-priviled and wage-priviled labour-priviled jobs-priviled jobs-priviled jobs-priviling, guaranteeing, guaranteeing, guaranteeing all their wage-priviling, guaranteeing and wage-priviling, guaranteeing, guaranteeing, guaranteeing and wage-priviling and wage-priviling, retra-priviling and wage-priviling and wage-priviling and wage-priviled businesses-priviling and wage-priviled businesses-priviling, retraff-priviling, retraff-privileling and wage-traff-privileged and wage-priviling, guarantee-priviling, retraff-priviling, wage-traff-priviling, retraff-traff-traff-traff-traff-traff-traff-traff-traff-traff As far as we are concerned, we will take the lead in the fight for life protection measures and the rights of workers themselves. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. We're continuing with Mr. Villardo and we're finishing with Mrs. Bakadima. Immediately afterwards, we're going to start the cycle of seconds with Mr. Haritsi. Mr. Villard, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, the confidence of the markets is due to their confidence that you will sell everything out, as well as to how you will give your exchanges and even national sovereignty. For borrowing rates we've explained it so many times. They count the real things, not the nominal ones. At negative rates, 6 trillion European bonds are negotiated, purchased by Greek banks, etc., so there is no reason to repeat ourselves. We have nothing to do with it, but it is not right to exaggerate or falsify events. We regret, however, that your current forecasts for the recession reach our April, -10% unfortunately for Greece, as well as the use of the Public Investment Programme for other things, as recently as 266 million for teachers' salaries, except for investments. This question is now a repetition of some of the previous questions by SYRIZA since May, which have numbered 22 and 20, with relatively similar content. The repetition is partly justified by the fact that the government did not do much for the country's health media in the summer, apart from literally terrorising citizens, while remaining in claiming laurels for the supposed saving of the social whole, after locking up the economy without asking anyone - Parliament, I mean - and despite the low cases. On the other hand, we have uncontrollably opened our borders to tourism, falling under the pressure of our partners and airlines, according to statements by Mrs Bakoyannis. But its failure in the receipts, which will not exceed EUR 3.5 billion, is obvious. Really, how much are the treatments and lockdowns going to cost us now? Did the government think so before it opened the border? In order to be objective, however, it is right to mention that there have already been deficiencies in ICU since 2018, with regard to influenza - as shown by the documents, which we will later present in the Minutes - as a result of the memoranda signed by all parties of the 'troika interior', the New Democracy, the Change Movement, but also by SYRIZA, which is now protesting. We recall here that the Minister for Development had stated in the past that he did not want to be glorified by the foreign troika for the closure of HSH units. On the issue now of budgetary measures and assistance from the European Union, Greece appears to have the second largest increase in aid to enterprises, with EUR 1.1 billion - according to the European Union's figures, which we will present in the Minutes - from the top of the provision of mobility capital to small and medium-sized enterprises, which we will also present in the Minutes. This, of course, concerns the increase, not the absolute figures. On the other hand, the other countries have much better economies and banks, while Greece is bankrupt, with its banks focusing on auctions and high commissions. This, of course, is another matter. Greece also appears in the first positions in the European Union, as far as the companies that received aid are concerned, with thirty thousand companies and 350 million euros, as well as four hundred and fifty thousand private individuals, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. The picture, however, changes when we see the loans granted by the banks, since 50% of them were absorbed by only six large companies, as we will deposit in the Minutes. In fact, they invaded Greece EUR 30 billion from the Eurosystem, only EUR 10 billion was granted to businesses, so we assume that the remaining 20 billion would be absorbed by the state for the market by its bond banks. Compared with the European Union now, as regards the additional amounts allocated to the health sector, about EUR 200 million, Greece is low - as we will present in the Minutes - let alone, given that it is lacking in ICUs, and we do not have detailed information on the various health materials. But for the other countries, there are and we will be tabling them in the Minutes. In any case, the above proves that the government did not do much. Continuing, in general, measures are very low in relation to the rest of the European Union and to the conditions of our economy, since by 23 October, only 3.1% of our unrevised 2019 GDP, budgetary, 1.2% deferrals and 2.1% of guarantees, according to a table of an international study that we will also submit. For the entire year 2020, budgets amount to EUR 13 billion from EUR 11.4 billion in the seventh evaluation, while without the repayable advance, which is not a budgetary measure, to EUR 9.5 billion or 4,8 % of the 2019 GDP, by about September. As far as the NSRF is concerned, without the European Union budget being finalised, there has been an increase in the preliminary draft budget for 2020, although in the figures we have enough questions. Why does the government not use the pillow that SYRIZA is proud of? Is it because it is a myth because 15.7 billion is of the ESM and the remaining 20 billion are the public agencies' cash reserves, that is, are they already being used in REPOs? In relation to public transport, we wonder about the nerve. We have said many times that they belong to the extravagance of foreigners, the third memorial that all the parties of the 'troika interior' voted. So that - and I mean the excess - should have invested. Do you really not know it or do you know it and agree to collect the political cost to cover the extravagance of strangers? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. We must note, however, that deficiencies had been detected before the pandemic, while they were noted in the first days of the government with Mr Karamanlis' visit to the offices of SASY. To close, I want to say this. Greece's only solution is to create wealth by changing its economic model, away from the monoculture of tourism, with the support of the primary sector, processing, defence industry and high technology. As far as the NRV is concerned, it is used for investment purposes and not to close holes, as is usually the case. This will create sustainable jobs for all, without there being any need to provide disability and unemployment benefits, which will at some point end or end our country even further.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u140	Finally, you must bear in mind, Minister, that Greece is not North Korea to finance the measures with the property owners' pockets, not even the zero tax rebate that you promised them. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u141	We're finishing up with Mrs. Bakadima. Then we'll start the cycle of seconds with Mr. Haritsis, who has five minutes. Mr. Friends, Mr. Blondos, Mr. Poppas and Mrs. Fotios three minutes and Mr. Mamoulakis and Mr. Sarakiotis two minutes. Mrs Bakadima, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I must note that the way the pandemic is handled raises reasonable questions to all of us, a way of dealing with which, from summer onwards, it is evident that it does not really seek support for social infrastructure, which would protect the general population from the spread of pandemic, because of the costs of investing in areas of social policy. Indeed - and this is something that we all know now - the government is blinding itself, dedicating the problem solely to individual responsibility, ignoring the role of the social state and common goods in the management of the crisis. It is common, but it is beyond real, if we talk about the 20-five-year-olds - we have seen the cases that are growing in our schools - mass media symptoms, the insufficiency of the health system, if we talk about the waste of extremely valuable resources in private media and others, corresponding, in controversial ways, in relation to the public, private groups, and resources that should be given exclusively to health and education. In the morning, coming to Parliament, I heard the statements made by the Minister for Transport that new public transport, new trolleybuses and new buses will be released by the end of the year and that new drivers will be hired. By the end of the year! In other words, we will have to wait two more months, with the second wave of pandemic to whistle our country ruthlessly, with new measures, which we expect to hear this afternoon - the Prime Minister will announce it himself - when there should have been better moves, when all opposition has been calling on you since the summer to increase the routes and recruit new drivers. Did you let public transport services develop in a health bomb, so you can come in now, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, say what? That we will have to wait another two months, while citizens are infected, risk their health, why do we have to use public transport to get to work? And then, in two months, along with the vaccine, the new buses will come. At the same time, it would be wrong to assume that the shortcomings in the management of the pandemic are dictated only by the communication nature of the management of the government and not by the political priorities it has set itself, which are no more than the extreme neoliberal transformation of the Greek state, which, moreover, has become evident all these months with the number of legislation that has come and been strengthened and a series of pro-investment laws fast track in the middle of a pandemic. The government has made a conscious choice not to support the social state, thus exposing the lowest classes of our weakest citizens to the risk of transmission of the virus. Because if we look at the studies, we will see clearly that the non-preferential social groups are more vulnerable to pandemic than the others. This option is at odds with the general trend in Western Europe, where pandemic has pushed states to a shift towards strengthening public infrastructure and the social state, especially in the health sector. France is moving on to an increase in its Municipalities. Germany hires nurses. The Czech doctors. Serbia has opened two new hospitals. Italy has upgraded its health system. What do we do? We take care to give millions to public media. As MERA25, we think that the more communication the government is handling the crisis, the more communication it is is from the major opposition, which often undermines the debate on the crisis we are facing, where the answers are never given, in a superficial criticism of who would be or are the best manager, in a political scene where the new bipartisanism instead of seeing in the face of challenges and responding in an overall way to problems, is polarising and restricting the debate at a clearly competitive level. The pandemic seems at first sight to put aside the issues of strategic choices in the economy. But that is a fundamental mistake. On the contrary, addressing the economic impact must be done by upgrading the policy of the Green Agreement and the directional options of the NRP must respond to this logic. The pandemic reminds us that we have formed an economy that is particularly vulnerable to crises. Today is health, yesterday was the budget, tomorrow perhaps a climate will come. So the debate needs to be extended to the political strategies of the economy, which, unfortunately, seem to reproduce the pathogens of our economy and our society. The opening to tourism without a sufficient plan - we have seen the results - support for mining of hydrocarbons, the promotion of useful magnifying investments, often state-owned ones, such as the case of the Greek and the port of cruise in Piraeus, but also many others, are policies that, if they are not questioned soon and in depth, will soon, with mathematical accuracy, lead to a new collapse of the Greek economy and society, with consequences that are much worse and much more grim than those which brought about in the ten years of the Memorandum Policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much Mrs Bakadima for the time. We are now going on with the seconds. We'll start with Mr. Haritsis for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, let the debate take place. It's still early.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u145	No, Mr. Philly. You can sit down a little bit.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u146	You want to go to your country?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u147	I want to go to Gortynia. Here, Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. I don't have much time. I'll try to be very brief. I begin with the most specific and well-known issue of the unreturnable aid to enterprises. We do not need to discuss the regulation and how the procedure is going. I know very well that the process is progressing with approval from the Ministry, obviously. But they are regional programmes. I, because I'm a good man, don't want to create an inner-party problem in New Democracy. I will not tell you what the regional authorities say in private about your Ministry's reaction to these programmes. However, what I am most interested in and important to the businesses themselves and to the businessmen who are listening to us is if you really think - and that is the question we expect you to answer - that these programmes are sufficient to meet the needs of Greek small and medium-sized enterprises today. Let me give you an example, which I know very well. In the Peloponnese Region of 30 million - so much could the Peloponnese Region, obviously - draw up as a programme, when other pandemic commitments are made by the regions to cover the costs of hospitals to cover other types of costs - are they enough to meet all the needs of businesses? And we are talking about an entire region, such as the Peloponnese Region. I ask you the question and I hope you will answer it. I move on to another issue, which I did not have time to raise in my first speech. We are not only concerned about today, we are also concerned about tomorrow, where tomorrow is the Recovery Fund. I said it last week in the debate we had on the motion of censure. You weren't here, and that's why I bring it back now, where you're here. It is very worrying, in my opinion, that experiments carried out with the creation of the new structure in the Ministry of Finance for the management of the recovery fund. Honestly, I am surprised that you accepted as Minister of Development, for the first time in time, to have a transfer from the Ministry of Development to the Ministry of Finance of managing these very important funds. There have been services in the Ministry of Development which have managed European funds for over thirty years. They have a lot of expertise. We could build on this know-how and this new opportunity to serve it even further. Unfortunately, what we are seeing is the 'final' state of Mr Mitsotakis to expand even further, with a new structure, which will, in fact, be abolished after the management of the relevant funds. There will be no institutional memory, if you wish, in public administration from the management of this very important programme. Honestly, I think we are entering very dangerous paths with this initiative taken by the government to create this structure in the Ministry of Finance. I have to tell you that you have sincerely pressed a little bit on the good because you said about the management of the ESDP over our days. You insist on opposition to the opposition. I would be happy to have an overall debate on the management of the ESDP, if you like. I'm fine with it. I barely did. We can discuss the money that the country has lost in previous years. One billion lost the country in the Third Community Support Framework with PASOK - New Democracy governments. We can talk about hereticism that entered the country in 2014, precisely because of corruption phenomena over the past few years in the management of Community programmes. But, at the moment, I think the major one, the urgent one, is to discuss, Minister, today and discuss how we manage this very difficult situation. In any case, because what you said was absolutely inaccurate, namely that it was a great failure in our day, I will read out a statement to you: 'I am absolutely satisfied with the investment programme that finds so much support for Greece. Greece currently has the highest rate of absorption of the Structural Funds and the European Investment Fund." It's not a statement of mine. It's not a statement by someone who can be considered close to SYRIZA. It's a statement by the then President of the Commission, Mr. Juncker, on 26-4-2018. I put it down for the Minutes for the truth. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Alexis Haritsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And one final comment, because I don't have much time, Minister. This, in my opinion, is a global problem in the way in which public dialogue takes place in our country. I think that many times we end up making parallel monologues. I have heard you say, 'Get me some specific proposals'. But is that possible? Didn't you hear all the Members of the SYRIZA, all seven, and our parliamentary representative, present you with very specific proposals? We came here prepared. We didn't come here to do what we lived in government, an incredible disaster. We are aware of how difficult things are at the moment in the Greek society and we are coming with very specific proposals, both on the issues of education and on health issues, on transport issues, and on the issues of innovative and social infrastructure, and on the issues of research and the tests to be carried out. We would ask you to respond to these proposals. And I think you can't continue with general positions, which you don't answer. At the moment, the Greek society wants to know, it wants to know why all these actions have not taken place, all the previous months, while there was the possibility of the NRP. Most importantly, however, he wants to know what you intend to do from now on so that this second wave of pandemic, which is now, unfortunately, also present in our country, can be tackled successfully with the smallest possible losses both for public health and for the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u149	Thank you for the time. Mr. Friends has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. The debate is interesting. We have heard the Minister, Mr Georgiadis, about celebrating that the recession in Greece is smaller than that in the budget. It's not - it says -14%, it's 10%, it's 9%. Other-- she says-- she's bigger. Obviously Mr. Georgiadis lives in another country. He does not know that we had a 25% fall in GDP in the years of the memorandum and that the current recession and 7% to be and 9% - which will certainly be 10% - is facing an economic crisis, a collapse of the economy, which has been the case with the policies of the governments of the old two-tier period. We should not, therefore, mock the Greek citizens and be poor on the difficulties they face. The crisis and 7% and 8% to be, is like 30% in Greece if 25% of recession is taken into account in previous years. Secondly, of course the crisis is global. However, how it is dealt with in every country by making use of a new European framework, which is more favourable - it is what they are saying centralism of the crisis, for example, rather than neoliberalism of the crisis - it shows what policy each government is pursuing. You do not take advantage of this context of the centralist crisis. You find an opportunity now with the crisis, to apply a tough neoliberalism and to make the poor, poorer and more and a dragon of the economic elite - bankers, shipowners, businessmen - richer ones. That's the reality. Thirdly, I heard them say here that the disease is not transmitted in schools. We heard that even on the buses the disease is spreading. I imagine that not even in the churches, where the priests in the litany go without masks. Where is the coroner transmitted? If we believe the Minister, as he had said, is being passed on to the anti-fascist event outside of her own Golden Dawn. Are these serious things? You are laughing at what you say, and with what you are saying first and with your incomprehensible attitude, Minister! Of course, other things are interesting here. We have not heard an answer to the training measures we have asked for, staff recruitment measures, buildings, cleanliness, electronic system, tablet in children and teachers. None of this. We did costly proposals in the summer and now. No answer! Ladies and gentlemen, we could say other things. We have asked for a joint meeting of the Committee on Morphic Affairs with the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment to be held here. We don't trust the ministers what they say. Every day they change what they say. Let the experts, the experts and the experts come. We have confidence in them. And if you let them do their job, without dragging them into various political options that you want, they will be able to meet the needs of the Greek people. Last item: I heard the Minister in our previous debate end by announcing three times: 'Internationalism is treason!'. I opened Mr. Babiniotis' dictionary. I read what internationalism is: Political and cultural perception, which seeks to strengthen relations between peoples and nations and to abolish individual national interests. We also know that internationalism - which is treason, peace, namely, is a betrayal, according to the Minister - is attracting its origin from the French Revolution and from the books of Jean Jacques Russo. We know that it is opposed to nationalism - which the Minister, in an aggressive and warlike manner, supports - and cosmopolitanism, which is a reflection of colonial relations. We also read that there is the internationalist national liberation cycle in our country with the protagonists King Ferraios and the Adamadios Korais. This is constitutional patriotism, which unites patriotism with internationalism for peace and democracy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u151	As you can see, there was a small earthquake in Mr. Friend's speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u152	Was there an earthquake in my speech or what the Minister says?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u153	From your speech always, Mr. Philly. To continue with Mr. Blonde, who has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. As the Minister has asked for fair criticism, I too have to say that the assessment of failure, for a confession of failure, is obviously not just about our country. First of all, it concerns the global situation, where what the World Health Organisation had said since the beginning is underestimating, namely that this crisis is triggering inequalities and that it is not only the chronic patients and so-called 'false groups', the elderly, but also the poor and that it needs measures to support social cohesion, because it has been shown that these categories of citizens are much more vulnerable to serious illness and death. Europe has failed, for example, to establish a single health protocol, which will deal with citizens' movements and tourism, so as to limit the risk of spreading and there is a single approach and line in all countries. And, of course, our country has failed, too, in the broadest sense, to convince this period of society and for the real risk assessment, but also for the need to comply with the appropriate measures. And, of course, the government, which after the quarantine - I remind you - failed its main motto was "We are insecure". Uh, we weren't safe, Mr. Georgiadis. We weren't safe! Is that a successory? Isn't that a failure? I think, then, that you are still, unfortunately, continuing to give contradictory messages at this critical time. We cannot, in other words, have a lasting retreat between the fact that we are doing better than other countries. I would remind you that in the first wave we said that we were the best, that we were a world example. Now we are simply in line with the other countries. On the one hand, you say that we are doing better or about the same thing as the average in other countries, and on the other hand, you say that things have escaped, that measures need to be taken, that people need to comply, etc. This is a contradictory message which does not help in what we are saying, the need for agreement between society and compliance with the necessary measures. Because you have said that we might have two ideas if you were to take advantage of them, so I will mention two specific areas which, in my view, need to be exploited by the NRP and, of course, by the Recovery Fund. I want to make a brief parentheses here. There is not even the term ‘public health system’. There isn't. It says, 'health sector', 'health system', in general. This means that, behind this, there is an agenda that these resources will be used to implement the PPP line, public-private partnerships, which has proved to be not working as a tool for the pandemic, because the private sector is absent. So I have two proposals to make: Firstly, an integrated network of services and structures, which will focus on this great need arising from the pandemic. Family doctor, mobile health units, home surveillance, psychosocial support, cooperation of public health structures with social self-government services. This is a field in which you can, if you really want, set up a serious plan, deposit it and draw resources. Second field: National health infrastructure plan with emphasis on critical fields, facilities for LAGs, IDUs, hotel support, public health workshops. We are talking about a national infrastructure plan, which will, over time, renew the old facilities of the health system and the outdated equipment, where there is still one, and we will not have the need to apply to donations. These are the two proposals. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u155	Thank you. We're continuing with Mr. Pappa. Mrs Fotiou will follow and we will finish with Mr Sarakiotis. Then the Minister will speak, then Mr Chakalotos will be closed and the Minister will be closed. Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. There seems to be an earthquake in Samos and he's very powerful. We felt him here, too. We hope it's not unpleasant. One of the things Mr Karamanlis said this morning is that only 5% of buses are full of over 65%. I'm saying this to understand the space distance man actually has. Icons are shocking, storming. Is it possible to ejaculate such things? Mr Minister, I would also say what other honourable Members have said, that you have not answered anything. We made suggestions to you. You didn't even tell us if you would stop the seconded person from your office and didn't call Karamanlis in the intermediate to commit to returning the four drivers. Recruitment: Will we get any answers? Something's moving, there's a proclamation. Will you bring her to see her? We've filed a request. For people to understand criminals are your responsibilities, we have vehicles that are ready and do not have a driver. Today the head of the technicians said the two are close. A hundred and seventy buses and a hundred trolleys, repairing me within a one-month horizon, ready. Seven hundred fifty buses that were launched with the competition and you do not reopen. And, of course, because it is all the fault of Mrs Durou - ninety-two vehicles guaranteed by the Attica MSF, have been awarded them. It was integrated, ninety-two vehicles had been financed, twelve of which were electromobilized and the others, of course, with a very environmentally friendly consumption. This is your state and all these choices have a common denominator: to prove that the public body cannot serve, to go badly into contracts that you refuse to bring before Parliament. Two conversations about the big plays. Drunked inertia. That's where we don't really understand you. In your programme you said that they would be created by these forty thousand new jobs. Aren't you interested in this happening? You said so. New Democracy Programme page 12. Forty thousand new jobs. And you've frozen everything. Thessaloniki Metro. Because something has been heard, I will say: Excuse me, we have received the expenditure to 30% of the project and deliver it to you at 75%, and here we do the mustard skates. People in Thessaloniki know and see. So I think there should be a measure. Finally, with regard to financial instruments, I will say: Two hundred thousand applications, twenty thousand companies have entered the financial instruments guaranteed by the state of the banks. If this isn't an orderly financial suffocation, what is it? In Greece, there are seven hundred and fifty thousand businesses. If you take off the self-employed, they're five hundred, five hundred and fifty thousand employees. And twenty thousand are the ones to which your policy has allowed them to be financed. Let me know if that's a solution. Of course, as we have said before, you have also given them a gift for bankruptcy to clean up the zombies, as the Pissaridis report says, this insulting Pissaridis report, which you have adopted and lyban and keep the money from the Recovery Fund and the NSRF money for the survivors. The Greek economy needs funding and, in fact, in two waves. A first, brave wave to support and survive businesses below which 80% is hanged and 85% of employment and a second wave of support to be technologically upgraded: move on to digital transformation, develop synergies, open up new markets and increase their productivity. But these are parts of a fair development plan that is far from what you have in mind and which you are implementing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. There is now a reason for Mrs Theanos Fotio. The earthquake, ladies and gentlemen, was 6.6 in Samos. That's what I read a while ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u158	Minister, Spain has received 21.3 billion from the total financial support for Europe's 87 billion and we have received 2.7 billion. That is, he took ten times more money than we had with a population four times greater than we did. Good for you! You're champions! That is why you are avoiding every debate on the topical question today. When I mentioned the programmes - more than 100 million - that we joined the NRP and which you froze, I imagined I was excessive, that the answer would be, 'have been delayed', 'we will speed up', or else. You responded proudly, "we have stopped them, because we..." - i.e. SYRIZA - "has lost the election". So, let me get this straight, will you answer it already? Included programs 100 million? Does that mean you're not going to build any more community centers? Are you done? So you're going to avenge because SYRIZA lost the millions of elderly people affected by the pandemic? Aren't you going to make the 50 OFELI centers, which do 24 million? Are you going to avenge people with disabilities? Aren't you going to make the sixty apartments and homes for disabled people, so that their children don't get in, the big crippled people in the foundations, and so their parents don't have an agony, "What am I going to do with this disabled child once I die?" And that's what you're gonna throw away, 50 million? Tell me: Will you avenge the families because SYRIZA proposed all this and designed them? Aren't you going to do family support centres with 20 million, which are just over the period, why are there problems of domestic and racial violence? Minister, I understand that your amoralism is beyond me. And well with the poor, who multiply rapidly. They don't have anything to do with you. After all, what you promised in the election was to save the infamous middle-stages that SYRIZA destroyed, giving the money to the poor, which was the biggest political deception ever in Greece in election. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. This is what you are paying off today, the middle layers that have raised their loans with the non-service of their loans during your governance period. Because you're not new. You are from 2012 to 2014. At that time, over the period 2012-2014, non-performing loans were increased by 66 %. Bash and you weren't a government then? Then these middle layers were the ones that couldn't afford to be red and red. From these middle layers you will get what they have, that is, their first residence. That's what you're going to do with the bankruptcy law. There is no point in me making the suggestions or telling you their costing. You have already explained that for the millions of four hundred and thousands of children and their mothers you are interested in even a million elderly people. You're not interested. So what can I explain? How much do the proposals I've made cost you, what's the cost? Whatever time you want, Minister, call me to your office to tell you the cost. Because it's obvious you're not interested in all of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u159	Thank you. Mr. Sarakiotis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you spoke twenty-one full minutes and did not find the time to report to Greek researchers once, to Greek scientists who remained in the country and continued to offer at this difficult time their valuable services for managing and fighting the pandemic. You obviously did not have time to talk and address these people. What do the heads of research structures, research centres? They're just asking for their active involvement in this whole process. They've developed their own protocols. The Prime Minister himself congratulated them a few months ago, and all this time you have turned their backs on them. You underfinance them and continue to care. You have not mentioned these research centres that are awarded by European bodies, these research centres and universities, which make us all proud. You've decommissioned them consciously. Apart from their direct contribution to the fight against pandemic by carrying out too many, thousands of tests on a daily basis, accurately, with their scientific adequacy, as I said before, it is also the question of the economic issue with which you seem to be not concerned. When these research centres can carry out a test at a cost of EUR 30.35 per tonne, we see the Greek public, legal person governed by public law from Edessa - I will test in the Minutes - to pay 100 euros for the test. Hospital in Samos pays 60 euros plus VAT the test. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You don't care about their involvement. Is this about your financial side? Does the Greek government pay more than twice or three times as much for conducting these tests as they are employing someone in your government? I said it in my first talk. You see a crisis and you try to make it a systematic, conscious, organized opportunity. Instead of channelling the largest number of checks to the Greek research centres, you send them to private individuals. After the last letters that have seen the light of publicity, we are talking about a plan. We are not talking either of incapacity or of idealism. We're talking about a plan on the part of your government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u161	Thank you. Just speaking of the scientists, I'd like to tell you something, Minister, and the colleagues I found yesterday. A fellow doctor, a deputy professor at the University of Athens, left for the exterior five to six years, came back and went to do his papers at the National Health System. And of course, this man started again - Mr. Blonde may know - from the position of curator II. I mean, he needs a try from everyone to look at it. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, before I say anything else, we wish that everything will be and that there will not be any victims in Samos. The earthquake seems to have been too big, perhaps 6.9 degrees of the Richter scale, focused on Samos. Looks like there's been a disaster. Let's hope everything's going to be okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u163	Underwater?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u164	I don't know exactly. I read only and they took me from the government to tell me there's damage to homes. There seems to be damage to several houses. I'm getting a little into it. First of all, I would like to reply to Mrs Fotou first of all, because I think that when a minister talks to a former minister, they can reach agreement. I never said we weren't interested in the programs. I am sure you have the technical capacity to know whether or not we have extended all these programmes. And I'm sure that if you can't know this as a former Minister, something's wrong with your office. So I read: The community centres, social grocery stores and pharmacies, homeless structures, structures of abused women were extended until the end of the current programming period, i.e. until the end of 2023. In addition, the programme ‘Family and Occupational Life Harmonisation’ continues until the end of 2023 co-financed by the ESF and the State budget. We alone have extended - you have not done so - the support centres for abused women. We've already done this. How do you come to the House and say that we are not interested in all of this when you know that they have been extended? You know that. What I told you is that, because of the elections, we have the right to implement our own plan. I didn't tell you we weren't interested in all these people. And it's a pity - you're a university professor, former Minister - to come to the House and say such things. As regards the major one you said, it was the greatest political deception of all times by election, you know, Minister, there is one problem here. When you deceive someone from the election - which may happen, you did it in 2015 and I will come to Mr. Tsakaloto immediately - then people understand deception. That's why SYRIZA has already been back in polling since the beginning of 2016 and lost all the elections. Isn't it a little weird that we cheated the world by election, and fifteen months later we'll throw you a double score on your head? Don't you see that a little weird? So, 15 months after the Greek citizens haven't understood the deception yet and they're waiting for the Fire? So let's go now. And give me a clue of cheating. Mr Tsakalotos - I must say, sympathetic to me and a serious man - started with a story from Kimolo, very interesting. And I thought, what other island story do I remember? I remembered immediately. You know, it's that time in Gadus before the 2015 elections that Mr. Tsipras meets a nice old lady who tells him he doesn't want to pay HISHA. I read, I saw the video on Google before, this I was listening to on my cell phone: "Chipras to the old lady: The raisin once you won't pay for it!" Well, you find the 13 euros and give them to the old lady from Gadus, because the charm paid for it. I'm saying that because wisely we can all say here, but we said we could talk serious things. So if Mrs. Fotou wants to find out what the greatest political deception of all times is, it's what you said before 2015. In fact, Mr Chakalote, I will take it to the most serious right now. I understand your speech and a particular part of it as a great act of historical understanding and reconciliation of the last decade. What did you say? That the reason why we have the low interest rates today and we have a stability in our public finances is that our debt is set for the next ten years, because you have made the pillow. Yes, sir. Our debt is set because you made the pillow from the memorandum. You were out here in the House, the 'indignant', against the Memorandum. The two basic achievements you mentioned are fruits, results, fruits of the memorandum. I am pleased, Mr Chakalote, that you refer to the successes of the memorandum, even from the third, the inappropriate, yours. But I come to the first part of your question, because it has a greater interest in our national self-awareness. What did you say? That our debt has been set for the next ten years. Indeed. What is the highest point in the settlement of the Greek debt, Mr. Tsakalote, that you have always written in your budgets, and I have always told you when you were Minister? The PSI of February 2012. You want me to remind you what you were saying about the PSI, all of you in SYRIZA? You'd also go back to the special court of Evangelos Venizelos. Make him a statue to honor him, after you come here and tell us how good it is that the debt has been settled, with my vote, when you were outside and burn Athens with the "atrocious". So, to remember a little and what happened in Greece. So I am glad that even afterward you have recognized how much poison you have watered the Greek people over the last few decades. And I'm glad for the anthem at the PSI you said before and to Evangelos Venizelos, even if you didn't mention his name. So now we are going to take the concrete measures because I said that I wanted a good debate and a good one. I get them one by one. Support for the health sector. You are accusing us so long of not using the NRP and European resources to support the health sector. As for the family doctor, I recall that by my own law it was introduced in 2014. It is the reform of the ETUC. As for what you did for primary health care, Mr. Xanthi, nor a family doctor you did, and the TOMYs you made were failed. So let's go now. Through the sectoral and regional programmes of the NRP 2014-2020, action in the health sector of more than EUR 750 million is being implemented by the European Regional Development Fund for infrastructure projects, etc. During the pandemic, what you are asking me now, added forty actions totalling EUR 340 million for new supplies of medical equipment, for the strengthening of health institutions with ancillary staff, to respond to the needs of a pandemic. In particular, 270 million for new ancillary personnel for the pandemic, 18 million for the creation of a network of nurses for the reception of samples of biological material, 30 million KOMY molecular tests for the tests. Tools for analysis and data interpretation, 1.5 million. Development of skills and skills for human resources for EMCDDA ambulances, 16.5 million. Cross-sectoral national public health strategy, 5 million, and now the Ministry of Health has requested us for additional EUR 135 million, which we will approve. So, 340 and 135, half a billion has been taken up by health from the ESRB - what you ask me - only for COVID. You didn't know? Why didn't you mention it? It's a lot more for health. I'm not saying it, because it's too much. Now we're going for the school units and all that Mr. Friend told us. Let's go see about school units. The sectoral and regional programmes are implemented and specific actions in the education sector amount to 105 million already in place to deal with the pandemic. Indicatively, they include: Supply by higher education institutions of sanitary materials to perform laboratory and clinical exercises safely. Procurement of health material for students. Financial support for insurance contributions from apprentices to ESDP, IEK, etc. Advisory support from the school community to acquire skills required for the pandemic. Support for distance learning by supplying electronic equipment. The great tablet you said, Mr. Friend, we've already taken it, we've shared it. Support the educational process through the provision of electronic laptop equipment. For the tablets to say specifically, I still remember when we made the decision, the course of OLEME and teachers shouting against the tablets outside my office. Furthermore, in the framework of the co-financed NSRF programmes, actions are being implemented to support school units - what you said about recruitment - with EUR 560 million in education budgets for the school year 2020-2021. Didn't you know, Mr. Friend? You come here and tell me if we have used ESDP money in the midst of a pandemic with the new health and schools rules, and we have made over half a billion for health, over half a billion for schools. You didn't know?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u165	Did you give a tablet?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u166	I told you we need to have a good conversation between us. If we don't have a good conversation, we won't make it out of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u167	The numbers are, unfortunately, prosperous for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u168	Now let's go to Mr. Haritsi. Programme for the regions. First of all, I'm going over the gossip, what the district managers say. You know that, all right. I can hear it. Let's go down. "How did the regional programmes begin?" I told you. They started by letter of mine to Mr. Djijkostas. The letter, if you want to be handed over, ask me in writing, to give it to you. Why was this letter and this agreement? To be honest and clean with you. Because the district managers put a lot of money back in the first phase of the pandemic, as we took their rest of the ESDP to put them as a guarantee for TEPIX and their guarantee months April and May and in a counter-route that we took them out to quickly get the programmes out and so we became first in Europe to make them and tell us the congratulations that I said earlier, we approved them to make their own entrepreneurship support programmes at the end of July 2020. Your second question is: 'Is it enough for the regional directors, Mr Minister, and have you examined it?' Again, I'm going to say it because you're a good person, you're a man who knows his job, obviously. You know that not only are we budgeted, we've already applied for it. There is no way that you do not have the opportunity to know what we have requested from the committee. You know, therefore, that all the outdated programmes for entrepreneurship support regions are EUR 800 million. It is my request to the European Commission that we be approved by 1,6 billion, that is, so much. And this request, Mr Haritsis, was made before the second wave of the pandemic that might also create new additional needs. Note also - I am sure you know - that while the original decision of the Commission was that these programmes were all used up until 31 December 2020, we requested and received an extension of up to 30 June 2021, just to make it possible to spend 1,6 billion. So you're asking me something you know that I know and I've acted and I've been approved as a Ministry of Development to do this. Why don't you tell them? I repeat. If the debate between us doesn't have any elements of generosity and political culture, we're not going to get out. However, I would like to answer the question and criticism of the Management Fund. Why can't the Ministry of Development be managed and done by the Ministry of Finance? It's a reasonable question. What did you say? Did you say that the Ministry of Development has a structured and existing European fund management mechanism, since it handles the NSRF, so why should a new structure be established in the Ministry of Finance? Isn't that the question? I imagine again that you will know that this is the main decision we took in the Commission. So what happened? Did the European Commission have to decide that the Recovery Fund should be managed by the Directorates of the European Commission, namely those traditionally managed by the ESRB? Or is it going to be a separate parallel structure so that the first one won't get overloaded and go to the second one? What did the Commission decide? Second parallel structure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u169	Where?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u170	The Commissioner, the Von Der Lyen, the President of the Commission. The President of the Commission has set up a parallel structure, beyond the general addresses of the Commission. The very same model that the Commission has made is made by all the countries, with no exception. What for? Because the two will run parallel. At the same time, the new ESDP will run. At the same time, the old NSRF will run the rest of what remained from the extension, what the Ministry of Development will have. At the same time, the Recovery Fund will run...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u171	In parallel and complementary and not contradictory.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u172	That is correct and complementary, but with quite different procedures. The recovery fund procedures are much faster and the ESRB procedures are different.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u173	Will you take the time of your tritology, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u174	Therefore, the whole of Europe has become parallel structures. This is the answer to why it was done in Greece. It was not only in Greece. I come to Mr Philly and to the nice debate on internationalism. Jackis: "Patrice and internationalist Mitsotakis". I'll say it again in case you haven't heard. I don't know if you've been informed. Previously, she was sitting next to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u175	For you, tell us about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u176	‘Patris and internationalist Mitsotakis’. Excuse me, if you want to lie to me about my ideas of internationalism...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u177	Is that treason?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u178	If he's called a stepfather, what is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u179	You said so. Leave her alone, colleague. We're talking about you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u180	I'd rather see you say that with the same narrow voice to Mrs. Jack. As long as you do not speak with the same narrow voice to Mrs Jackson, then I consider that faith in your ideas is partly relevant. If you have the courage, tell Jakri, not Georgiadis. So, to be informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u181	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u182	I will need a few minutes, Mr President, to answer, because I do not want to leave anything unanswered.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u183	Goldenness is present.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u184	Was Mrs. Jackie Golden? That's a very heavy thing to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u185	I'm talking about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u186	It was too heavy. Was Mrs. Jackie Golden? He said the stateless and internationalist Mitsotakis. Is she a golden girl? Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u187	I'm talking about your party. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u188	Please, Mr. Philly!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u189	Let everything be written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u190	When you can tell Jakri, then you'll tell Georgiadis. As long as you can't tell Jackrey, please very, a little contraction. I'm coming to Mr. Villardo. And I'll close, saying for a minute about neoliberalism. Mr Villardo, listen, when you are criticising - I told you yesterday in the debate - you must be based in real terms. There is no scientific evidence that unites the opening of tourism with the outbreak of the second wave of the coronary in Greece. For this reason, the second wave of coronary in Greece has come a long way from the rest of Europe. That is why we are now entering the second wave in reality, when others have already entered August. On the contrary, Greece managed to remain a very safe country. Is that what we're talking about? Does the Mitsotakis Government say that? Does the Pecha list say it? ‘HANDELSBLATT’: Greece is a safe tourist destination. When? Done at Brussels, 15 October 2020. Austria: "Greece among the most secure destinations following the occurrence of the krone". When? October 21st. ‘TUI’ means in Greece the largest share of ‘TUI’ on 25 September 2020. ‘TUI’: ‘Greece is the most popular destination for 2020’ on 25 September. I put it all in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And the "TUI" on the Pecha list. And Austria on the Pecha list. And the "HANDELSBLATT" on the Pecha list. And everybody on the Pecha list. That's a good interpretation of how this planet works. That's why you're losing 20 units, why don't you sit down and get serious. I'm hanging up. Mr Tsakalotos, with regard to all this theoretical debate you are having on neoliberalism and our neoliberal choices, I will tell you this: you and we share a bad common destiny in part. I say that to be fair. When you were running because of circumstances, obviously, you had to implement policies very inconsistent with your ideology, voting for a memorandum, because of the commitments - if you would like - that the country had at the time and that of us in our own term, for a year now, since the outbreak of the pandemic, obviously, we have been applying policies very different from our own ideology. Because I do not think you are seriously saying that the allocation of allowances, which I have now shared a few billion dollars, is that the suspension of payments, that the guaranteed loans and all the rest are neoliberal plans. I imagine that you can understand, because you have, on the other hand, gone as badly as I am, and I am applying many measures, various of my ideology, as you have done from the opposite side and from the opposite side. So discussion of ideologies when we have returned to normality and we will be able to implement our plan properly, very gladly to do so. At present, there is neither neoliberal nor any other plan. There is an attempt to stay the country upright under extremely difficult conditions. In this effort, we, the Civic Opposition, want it an ally, not a rival. We need a reliable ally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u191	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u192	As far as drivers are concerned, I was informed, because I did not have full knowledge when you told me, nine bus drivers were transferred by SYRIZA to the Ministry of Development and working in offices today. In fact, the last transfer of nine was two months before the elections. Let go, Mr. Pappa. We're not talking rope at the house of the hanger.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u193	Mr. Chakalotos has the floor. You still have dentology and tritology, six and three minutes, a total of nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Georgiadis, the Minister in dentistry said a lot of right and relevant things, as we heard him. Unfortunately, as usual, what was right was irrelevant to the question. He told us how important the pandemic is and how hard it was. As far as the question was concerned, it wasn't right. What was the question? It was very simple, I think. Mr. Haritsi's speech was very good. I think she was clear. He set the frame. Were there any costs, which we could do because of the differentiation of the NRP, going into new things that were not in the old framework for society, for health? That's the first question. Was that there? Was there a possibility of spending something that we could not do before COVID in various areas that you did not do? We didn't get an answer. Could we have done more with this new opportunity that the European Union gave us or not? I didn't understand you saying anything about it. The second issue is the various proposals on poverty, disability, transport, health, young researchers and education. You read a list of things you did for education, for health. Apparently, you do things. Of all the things that colleagues and colleagues have said, was there anything that moved you? Is there something you said 'yes, since there is room in the NRP with the new rules, do I adopt what Mrs Fotio said about disability'? I say it accidentally. Someone else may have moved you. I don't know. Or what Andreas Xanthos said about mobile health units or a national infrastructure system, as he analysed it. I don't understand. Because you told us in your first speech that you wanted proposals and that you would listen to them. You have heard proposals and you have not even assessed them. You just told us what you'd do. Now let's go talk about neoliberalism. Your neoliberalism is not suspended, nor before the COVID that you did this for industrial relations. As if the problem is what Mr Mitsotakis said in Thessaloniki - I think - the work is very expensive. As if you have not followed the whole European debate on wage stagnation. But it wasn't on parole, and after COVID. The bankruptcy bill you brought in, and we discussed it for five days that changes the balance between helping businesses to reconstruct and liquidation, was a purely neoliberal shape. And I tell you that you are not using the opportunity from the NSRF, and I am very afraid of the new framework for the NSRF and the framework that will be for the Recovery Fund to change your course. You may even - your dystocia to adopt some of the proposals we have made, it has to do with your dystocia not to open wastes that society will want to take and make a serious social state. Mr. Xanthos told you that the World Health Organisation, but I must tell you, Mr. Xanthi, and many others and economic organizations, they say that pandemic has a very classic sign and creates many new inequalities of all kinds, men, women, class, regionals, among regions, in people who have access to health systems and those who do not. What are you worried about and saying that we should suspend our ideological differences? Are any of these inequalitys that you've heard, that you've been informed of, that you see with your eyes? And one last point. You said you weren't worried about the coronary in schools, because the readings are that it's not a source for the virus. I can hear it and hear it in other countries that this has been done. I am, of course, concerned about what will happen when the situation gets worse, but I hear it. But in order for a serious debate to take place in the difference you had with Mr. Pappas, can you tell us if you have any evidence of what happens to public transport? Why do you not question the photos that Alexis Tsipras gave and which - as others have said - and with your eyes you can see on buses. Some things are ideological and they will remain and, unfortunately, there is no suspension due to a coronary, but some are also an empirical analysis. So I'd like to know if the criticism we're making is unfair because you have evidence that bus crowds, trains, the subway are not a problem. But I'm afraid we don't have that evidence and we're not looking for that evidence. Part of democracy and part of a government's responsibility is to gather such evidence so that we can make good policies and see where we need to find our interest in policies. So, Mr. Georgiadis, you have not suspended your ideological preferences. One can say right, but I think that very quickly you will see a significant change in the world, because when fear is overtaken, which the world does not let him think, think about, discuss with others, consult, listen to other opinions, many of the things that the Left says about the importance of the public sector, especially in health, about the importance of having active policies in the economy and macro-economics, but also macroeconomic, so that this productive reconstruction can eventually become a reality, many of them will come to the surface. And I remind you that in the history of capitalism the big crises very rarely turned the system into the status quo ante, that is, the situation before. That was not the case in 1929, nor in 1974 to 1981, nor will that be done in this crisis. We all hope and fight in a progressive direction, but it is certain that we will not return to the ideologies of neoliberalism. Don't worry about inequality. Don't want to regulate the markets. Do not invest in public health and education systems. That's over. It is the duty of the Left and all the progressive forces to make these fifty, what that means in practice. That's our obligation in the next few months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u195	Minister, you have the floor and we close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u196	My dear colleague, Mr Tsakalotes, firstly when Mr Mitsotakis at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki referred to the heavy wage burden, he did not mean what you said just now, unless you did not understand it. In other words, it did not mean that the workers get a lot of money in Greece. He meant that because of the laws of your own, not only your government in general, but also the Minister of Finance Tsakalotou and the Minister of Labour Katrugalou, a worker we want to bring, for example. for working in the data center of "MICROSOT" and working today at the data center in England, if he gets the same salary he receives in Greece in his pocket, half of it is left in Greece, for exactly 50% is the higher charge than the Katorugalou law and the Tsakalotou taxes. So Mr Mitsotakis came to tell you - I would clarify if you did not understand - that our Government has taken a major initiative to reduce the cost of insurance contributions to the labour market, so that the worker can finally have more money in his pocket and not take it from you with the Katorugalou - Tsakalotou. I would also like to say that this is a key reason why we have been voted on. Because you said many times about the middle class, there have been your related videos ever since. And indeed, Mr Chakalote, to be honest, if you want to have a serious conversation with SYRIZA, the fact that you scratched the middle class in an unprecedented way is the main reason why you lost the election. And the fact that to this day the middle class hears SYRIZA and turns, it means something. To tell Mrs. Fotio that she thinks we deceived the world, that she is not as easily deceived as you think and is not as foolish as you think the Greeks are. They know what they're paying, they know what they're paying. They understand the difference, and that's why they voted for us, and that's why they trust us. Now, in terms of public transport, who said that the government is not interested in public transport? Already the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure has put much more buses into operation and Mr Karamanlis has announced, as you know, that in the next few weeks there will also be more. But I saw just now, because the internet is a magical place, that they have made a very nice video there at the "Truth Group" where they found a speech by Mr. Spirtzi from Parliament as SYRIZA Minister for Transport and Infrastructure, which explains very thoroughly why these two hundred seventy buses you mentioned cannot be repaired. And next to them they have put your own statements on how easily they can be repaired. I would suggest that you take a phone call from Mr. Spirtzi to explain to us what, in very detail, explained to this House two years ago and why these two hundred seventy buses are impossible to repair. If Mr. Spirji was lying, I don't know. I'm not a bus expert. But I saw the video that if Greek citizens see it, it's very interesting to see how SYRIZA is with chair and SYRIZA without a chair. Let's go to the last and most interesting. Mr Tsakkatou, there is a shocking misunderstanding - not a misunderstanding, you are smart enough to know - but a misconception of the world that you, that is, left-wing, are interested in inequality, while we right-wings are not interested in in inequality. You're making a big mistake. Only one barbaric, only one man without a soul doesn't care about inequality. Unless you think that some people, in a way, are reluctant to see poor or undetected or unqualified people without opportunities in life. I can assure you that I am not one of them and I am not on the right because I want to see poor people and inequality. I'm on the right, and I believe in capitalism, because I believe that of all human history systems, it fights inequality better than anyone else. And that's our main difference, not whether we want to hit inequality, but how we hit inequality. So I say to you that capitalism and the free market are the system that allows people to escape inequalities. That's why in this system too many poor people have become rich and too many amorous people have been educated and too many people who have no future have found a future. On the contrary, in my opinion, Mr Colleague, in the systems of the central planning of the economy, that is to say, what the Left, type of Soviet, or its variants, are saying, people have not only been able to have social mobility and reduce inequalities, but society has gone down and has been destroyed. That's why one after another those systems were erased. So don't tell me here if we're inconveniences. We are suffering for inequality. We are fighting to end inequality and we are fighting to end inequalities with the best system humanity invented since its birth, capitalism and the free market, no matter how much you don't like it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u197	Thank you. As you know, the government always completes the process. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on No 1/1/05-10-2020 is closed on the subject: 'No use of the NRP to deal with the health, economic and social consequences of the coronary pandemic.' Asked by this House: do you accept to wind up the sitting?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-30-S1-commons.u198	With the agreement of the House at 14.47 minutes the sitting on Monday 2 November 2020 17.00 is closed on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
