ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would like to make two announcements to this House. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Modernisation of environmental legislation, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directives 2018/844 and 2019/692 of the European Parliament and of the Council and other provisions’. Also, the Ministers for Migration and Asylum, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Justice, Interior, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Tourism and State, as well as the Deputy Minister of Sport and Culture, submitted on 30.4.20 a draft law: ‘Improving immigration legislation, amending the provisions of Laws 4636/2019 (A' 169), 4375/2016 (A'51), 4251/2014 (A'80) and other provisions’. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: ‘Modernisation of environmental legislation, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directives 2018/844 and 2019/692 of the European Parliament and of the Council and other provisions’. I would like to inform you, from the outset, that a statement of non-constitutionality has been filed by SYRIZA. We will say the procedural documents from the Conference of Presidents and then we will discuss the procedure for objecting to the unconstitutionality. I'll give it a photo because it's multipage so that a representative of each party will also have it. Since there's signatures, I'll give it a photo from now to buy time. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 24 April 2020 to discuss the draft law at two meetings in accordance with the normal procedure. In other words, in today's sitting the bill will be discussed and adopted at the outset. At tomorrow's meeting, the articles and amendments of the bill will be discussed and voted on as one section, as well as the entire bill. In today's debate at the beginning of the bill, the rapporteurs and special speakers will be placed for 15 minutes, the parliamentary representatives for 12 minutes, the speakers on the list for seven minutes and the Minister responsible for eighteen minutes, in accordance with Rules 64, 96 and 97 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I therefore propose that the parties be represented in proportion to their parliamentary power, with a circle of twenty-five speakers as follows: Thirteen speakers from New Democracy, seven speakers from SYRIZA, two speakers from the Change Movement and one speaker from the JRC, the Greek Solution and the Mera25 respectively. Speaking time will be seven minutes. Since the bill is large, there will be a tolerance for both rapporteurs and speakers. I say that beforehand. I therefore want your approval on the point of order. Don't get involved with the anti-constitutional plea. That's why we'll talk right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u2	I therefore have the agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u3	We disagree with the procedure. We're talking about the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u4	The decision of the Conference shall be majority. I'm talking about the Chamber now. I'm not talking about the decision. Although the objection of unconstitutionalism, in accordance with Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, is within the competence of the President to decide when to discuss, on the grounds of fair play and in order to go quietly, say to me you of the SYRIZA - not on the substance of the procedure now - or Mr Janakopoulos or Mr Famelos - if you want to discuss it now or want to be discussed at another time. Here you go, Mr. Famele, for three minutes. Not on the substance of the case, on the point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u5	I shall respect that, Mr President. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the request for unconstitutionality is tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and we ask that it be discussed, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, before the placement process. The reason we are asking for this is that we have noticed - and not only us but also the bodies involved in the consultation within the Committee on Production and Trade - a number of violations. I am referring to several articles, such as Articles 44, 48, 92 and 99, but also to articles relating to the debate in Parliament, which we do not put in our document. We therefore consider it compulsory for the rapporteurs and speakers to take account of these issues of unconstitutionality before being put forward, because this is an essential issue regarding the positions of the parties, the Co-Population and Reconciliation, and we must not deprive the parliamentary process of this debate. It is therefore essential and democratic, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, that it should be put before the debate on the articles and on the general principle of the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u6	The articles, or now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u7	Before the general debate and discussion of the articles. We therefore ask that it be preceded by the procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That is why it was tabled in full and with all the signatures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u8	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u9	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u10	I agree with my colleague. Now it has to be put in place and I think that's what you're going to do. But I would like you to clarify, Mr President, how we shall vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u11	That's what I'd say right now. So, in principle, we agree to have the debate now. The procedure is known. We'll start it from the so-called, I've been reconstructing it and then back from the parties, so the government can shut down. In accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents, which was unanimous, the vote can be taken by the six rapporteurs. Each rapporteur represents the whole of his parliamentary power. Do we agree on this? Because that's a unanimous decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u12	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u13	Here you go, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u14	Mr President, no such agreement arises anywhere. This agreement - an agreement on the functioning of the Parliament which we made by all the parties - was about dealing with the consequences and dealing with the problem of the pandemic. We have all advocated - and I am referring to the representatives of the SYRIZA - even though we have said that this process of co-legislative procedure is problematic, and Parliament must suspend this ex-post legislation. But we have already tabled to the committee that, firstly, this substantial agreement has been broken down by the Coupling and by the Bureau, because it has entered a bill which is irrelevant to the pandemic issues. Secondly, we have tabled the view that no Member of Parliament should be deprived of the right to participate and there should be no violation of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, there is no specific provision and special provision, nor can the Conference of Presidents make specific arrangements, even though, if you wish, we can invite the Conference of Presidents to discuss this here. Therefore, it will be properly discussed with MPs' rise, based on their presence in the Chamber of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u15	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u16	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u17	My colleague, Mr Famelos, has raised two issues. One is more general. I don't think we should waste time. There's been a decision. In general terms, I do not want to add any arguments, although I have much, Mr President. Because we are talking in a global context of functional constraints. What are we gonna do now? That doesn't change. His gradual change is a positive action. You said that at the Conference of Presidents. We shall now proceed to the vote. How do we vote? We're voting on a rise. What is your practice, Mr President? You've been in the Bureau for so many years. Are you counting? You don't count. Find after withdrawal if most or fewer rises. I do not remember in the years I have been in this Chamber the counting of the votes expressed by the Members of Parliament by means of a motion for a resolution. Once I remember that there were objections - either from us or from the New Democracy, I have not had it in hand now - so the Bureau interrupted the vote and organised it a few hours later. I don't think that's nice stuff. I think that voting through our rapporteurs, photographing the majority presumption in Parliament, is a good proposal. I agree with what you said, namely, and I think that we should not waste time on this, but get into the essence.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u18	We're actually going in, Mr. Loverdo. We said that. We shut it down. It will be discussed now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u19	To put to the bottom of the question of opposition to unconstitutionalism. Because such a large report of Parliament's scientific service, I don't think I've seen it before.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u20	We've actually said that, anyway, it's going to happen now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u21	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u22	Mr. Janakopoulos, listen. I will give you the floor, but I have said that one of you will speak. Mr. Famelos spoke. However, speak for two minutes. We just need to know that one of them is gonna talk. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u23	Mr President, I think - and this is not procedural - that we are currently in the presence of the deadlocks and contradictions caused by the parliamentary majority and by the Conference of Presidents of Parliament, which did not accept our proposals, one of which was that the House should be in the process of Summer Sections for May and June or otherwise that plenary should normally function and without any other type of restrictions, so that no institutional bypass and legal derogations can be passed, which the government considers to be crucial. The bypass that is currently happening here is something to do with the following. The procedure that we are following is not based on any Rule of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, but on the basis of decisions which do not find any basis in the law. Decision and order. We therefore say that there is not even the task of the Conference of Presidents to change the way in which the vote on the request for unconstitutionality is taken. You can't do it. You have no power in the text of the Rules of Procedure in order to be able to change something that is expressly provided for in Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The request for unconstitutionalism, the opposition to anti-constitutionalism is voted on by means of a stimulus and must now be voted on. You are in the presence, again, of your own contradictions, of the institutional behaviour of the Bureau of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u24	Shut up, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u25	That is why we cannot consent to a change in the procedure, in breach of Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u26	Listen. I do not want to read the Minutes from the Conference of Presidents twice, because it happened the day before yesterday. You know that decisions were unanimous.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u27	We never agreed!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u28	They were homogeneous. Here are the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u29	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u30	Mr. Economou, I saw you. Don't always raise your hand. The decisions were unanimous. There is no violation of the Rules of Procedure concerning the six. There is also the second solution - but for which the Bureau will decide when the vote will take place - with the sixty, where, as you know, it will take place on a rise, but on a pro rata basis. In other words, thirty-two Members from New Democracy, seventeen from SYRIZA, four, two, two, etc. However, this will then be done at the end of the debate, after it has been completed. Before we vote at first, the sixty will vote on a motion of censure. That is the decision of the Bureau. And for the six I can make a majority decision after Mr. Loverd has been placed. The majority in the House therefore accepts the Bureau's suggestion that the six be voted, and then the matter ends here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u31	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u32	Your disagreement has been recorded. And you're a minority...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u33	The protest was recorded. Okay. The majority of the House decided to adopt the unanimous decision of the Bureau on the basis of Mr Loverdos's reasoning, which we all support, we do not deny. We are starting the process with the first rapporteur from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u34	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u35	I didn't see you, Mr. Karathanasopou. You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u36	On the left you are not looking, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u37	You, especially Mrs Manolakou, know I always look at you. Mr. Karathanasopoulos may complain, but you, because of a long friendship, always look at you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u38	Mr President, you have referred to a unanimous decision from the Bureau. Only I would remind you that this unanimous decision concerned acts of legislation and matters relating to pandemic. When the Conference of Presidents came to the debate that we would enter regular regular meetings with bills that go beyond legislative acts, we stressed that they should not be tabled now. We must not discuss such serious bills in conditions where the plenary cannot meet in a full House and on the basis of the contradictions and difficulties that exist and with the Rules of Procedure. Why, think, it's a proposal for unconstitutionality. If a request for a roll-call vote is tabled, what will happen, Mr President? That is why we stressed the responsibility of the government and the majority, when these exceptional circumstances exist, and yet it brings to Parliament such serious bills, to which very important decisions are raised. From this point of view, unanimity lies only in legislative acts and not in other bills. It is not a unanimity for all the bills, Mr President, and you are well aware of the attitude we have taken on the environmental bill and the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u39	Mr Karthanasopoulos, you are talking about the procedure today, which you have indeed raised the objections you have said, which is why I said that it is by a majority that the bill is being discussed. I said it in the first place, I just didn't say which parties disagreed. Of course, you also disagreed on the Ministry of Education's bill. I can confirm that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u40	As far as the six rapporteurs are concerned, this 'unanimously' concerned legislative acts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u41	No, there was talk at the last session, as you recall.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u42	...which involved issues related to the pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u43	All right, all right. Mr Arseni, you have the floor. I don't put time on anyone because I trust all of you's self-discipline.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. I totally agree with the previous ones. And Mera25 objected to the final process on all these issues. There was no unanimous agreement and support for the process that we are currently experiencing. There has barely been a complaint and this has to be pointed out. Now, I am not a legal person, but as a man with common sense, I can say that the Rules of Procedure do not change through the decisions of the Conference of Presidents. It changes through a clear process that is explicit. I have not seen the Rules of Procedure change. So it is as it is written, so the articles invoked by any colleagues are really active. They cannot be suspended except by the explicit procedure, which has not been used to change something. There is the Rules of Procedure of the House as it is written and I would ask it to be implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u45	Mr. Economou will be closed. But I ask Mr. Heta or Mr. Villardo if they want to place him. I also don't give time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u46	I need a minute, Mr President. The fact is that we have to move on to the point. In any case, this bill is unacceptable, and we have also told the committees. Now look at the substance of the case. In any case, the New Democracy has the majority. Whether by raising or not applying what the colleagues of the other parties say or do what you have decided, the essence is the same. So let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u47	Thank you. Mr. Economou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. The same tactic was followed during the meeting of the committees. There, in fact, were colleagues from the opposition to ask for a committee which was precisely designated - two Members from each party - to vote by a raise of the hand whether or not we will continue the bill. And that tactic and that tactic is, in fact, a direct challenge to the principle of declared, as if we were questioning the basic rules of operation and the recommendations and majorities of the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u49	For unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u50	We are here on the basis of a decision of the Conference of Presidents, Parliament and democracy operate not in empty terms, but in rules and on the basis of the proposal and of the Bureau, we are calling for the procedure to be proceeded as you have set out in your report, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u51	Thank you very much for the places and for the calmness. As you know, the sovereign House is plenary. As far as I have seen and seen - three parties - the House prefers the Bureau to vote by six, so by a majority. Mr Famelos will now be given the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u52	Mr President, you will allow me to express, in a very specific way, in the text that you have received, precisely the unconstitutional issues. Maybe over five minutes. I believe that this is a fundamental matter for Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u53	Mr. Femelle, has the text of unconstitutionality been distributed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u54	I think so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u55	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u56	That's why I'm going to say it briefly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u57	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u58	Mr President, the issues raised in the objection of unconstitutionalism, which we will be claiming to be discussed and voted on under the Rules of Procedure after the debate and not on the basis of any arbitrary decision of the Bureau, include Articles 44, 48 and 92 and 99. However, for reasons of parliamentary order, I have to say that, in view of the fact that the objection of unconstitutionality should also relate to the procedure for discussing and voting on the draft law. You should! But I do not put it on this vote. This is because Article 72 of the Constitution is violated as regards the debate in plenary with full composition, with the right of all Members, on an issue which concerns an individual, social and political right such as the environment. There is a relevant case-law for Article 24. It is not disputed that questions of rights are discussed in plenary as a whole and not with a limited composition. Legislation concerning or affecting the protection and exercise of fundamental individual rights are to be introduced for a vote in plenary. This bill has a variety of provisions that affect and alter environmental legislation at the expense of the environment, to the detriment of protected areas, to the detriment of forests. Therefore, there is a substantial question in terms of Article 72 of the Constitution. It is not formally put in place but essentially and must be submitted to the procedure. SYRIZA must keep every word of the Constitution. The operation of this House, however, in the midst of a pandemic and exceptional measures imposed on the whole of political and social life, does not allow - and at the moment we do not have the Members within this House - and we do not think it provides the guarantees for the debate on the draft law as provided for in the Constitution. Therefore, there are no conditions of regularity and the proposed regulation and procedure are contrary to Article 72. But, Mr President, I should like to put another point to you personally, but also to the Bureau, your reply. There is a lack of legality in the debate on the non-compliance with good legislation rules that we have set in the Committee on Production and Trade. This concerns, in particular, the non-implementation of Law 4622 of the State of service. Neither Article 58 nor the definitions of Article 61 apply because the committee has not met and the committee has not been set up to assess the legislative work. Therefore, there is not the formation of principles and instruments to improve the quality of the parliamentary work produced, which is essentially about the government, but also about the Bureau of Parliament. So we ask why the provisions of the Legislative State Act are being violated - if they were not hypocritical, Mr President - why there is no evaluation report and why the consultation on all the articles has not been carried out, which is something that the Legislative State is obliged to do? Therefore, Members are not aware of many issues relating to constitutionality, compatibility with the law of the European Union, with the European Convention on Human Rights, and much that would enable us to have either the old CEN or now this committee. As regards the issues of the substance, which are listed in our application: The first to which there is a clear violation is Article 44 which amends the entire Presidential Decree of Land Uses, in 59/2018. That is because Article 24 clearly defines - there are fourteen pages of article, I do not read to you, I will summarise it as I have said - that the technical choices and weightings are made in accordance with the rules of science. And that's not just what the Constitution says. There is a case-law of the Council of State and in its full session, which says that technical choices and weightings are made by the rules of science, which binds all the state institutions, including the legislator. So, just as Decision 3135/2002 says, but from there and after other decisions, the legislator is required by the rules of science - so by study, processing and approval of the study, with the suffering of this processing by the public authorities - to come and submit the proposal on this article. Reasons set out in the explanatory statement, as stated in Decision 123/2007, are not sufficient documentation. Therefore, neither the lack, in our view, of a description of the explanatory statement does not cover this great deficit. It is therefore clear that the proposed regulation - and I say it briefly - is contrary to Article 24, because a constitutionally regulated principle is violated, the technical choices and weightings of spatial planning and town planning to follow the rules on science processing. From there on, there are issues with regard to Article 48. And Rule 48 is quite comical, Mr President. We told the Minister. I think it is negligence and underestimating the role of the Minister not to have noticed this. So Article 48, which amends the procedure for the suspension and ratification of forest maps, contains the following problems, which we have formulated in committee, Mr President. These problems have to do with the mandatory amendment of new laws, with new standards, with the exception of the forest map of the archives of the Ministry of Rural Development and many other regulations that legalise non-legislative acts, according to the Council of State, which are legitimized by your bill, undervalued the institution of the supreme court. The following is, of course, the question: Since the law defines the forestry protection and the drawing up of a tariff, which is an obligation of the State, those provisions, even though forests arise as natural goods and although there is Decision 2153/2015, the constitutional legislature cannot guarantee effective protection. The constitutional legislature, knowing that it must guarantee effective protection by means of valid detection, has requested a tariff. And now the provision calls for forests and forests not to be reflected, to be excluded and to be amended, despite the fact that there is legislation, Mr President, on the basis of existing laws as constitutional, on the updating and incorporation of public documents in the forest maps. With the proposed provision, maps are mandatory and are exempted from tariff compliance, which our Parliament does not have the power to do, since they go beyond the Constitution. There is also a serious problem of a timeframe which, according to the article, does not apply, but it is true that the two months that you are proposing are not respected. Of course, the digital file you're asking to exploit by the Ministry of Rural Development, I must tell you that it will not be controlled by the services on the basis of the existing provisions, but by exceptional provisions, which creates a serious problem...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u59	Mr. Femmelle, you will tell this in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u60	I repeat, Mr President, that the proposed provision does not only conflict with Article 24, but with the removal of the obligation from rural areas, it creates secondary issues relating to the ownership of both the public and individuals who open up and, of course, the drafting of the register. With regard to Rule 92, Mr President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u61	And this is what I ask you to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u62	There is in Article 92 a large number of articles that settle, license and legitimise solid waste management activities in many areas, particularly Attica, and Article 24 itself, as I have said in the first documentation, requires that the choices and weightings of spatial planning be made by the rules of science. However, here there is no recommendation from the Scientific Committee, no study, no text of science that gives the possibility of licensing, spatial planning and environmental impact, even though these activities are classified as nuisances and for which a decision on environmental conditions is required. Article 24 is therefore infringed because it is proposed not to comply with environmental licensing and spatial planning procedures and is to the detriment of them on the grounds of...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u63	Mr. Famelle, you have to close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u64	The exact same arrangement, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u65	Can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u66	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u67	If you hear me, you'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u68	The very same violation exists in Article 99, where three presidential decrees are violated for the centre of Athens, without any preparation of the Athens Regulatory Plan, the necessary consultation, scientific studies and the opinion of the self-government bodies. The rules of spatial planning, which bind all state institutions, are therefore violated. We would point out to you, Mr President and Minister, that there will be a problem in the Council of State for everything we say. Therefore, legislation will have serious problems and the service of society, if you aim for it, because we do not know exactly what your aims are. You should have known the law. Since paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 therefore amend special presidential decrees...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u69	Good. Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u70	...there's a serious matter for this article as well. Of course, the character of the region, which is also a question of Article 24, is also being changed. Finally, you will allow me, Mr President, to put an opinion on the scientific service. Because I have to tell you that all these are extracts from the scientific service report.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u71	Yes, but time has passed and please close. I've shown tolerance, but we're not going to go too far.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u72	You see, I'm very concise. I'm in the last paragraph. I would therefore point out to the Ministers and plenary that, as regards Article 99, which we have put to you issues within the draft law on the flexibility of spatial planning - and Parliament's scientific service says that there can be no exceedment of the constitutional requirement for rational spatial planning, because it can be seen that 'blocks' are created under the terms 'flexibility' and'resurrection'. I'm just talking to be clear. For this reason, this Article 24 proposes only hierarchical institutions...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u73	Mr. Femmelle, they'll turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u74	So there's a question in the article...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u75	Can you hear me? Please hang up now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u76	In the short time we had, we described...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u77	You didn't have a little. It is the time that the Rules of Procedure have been invoked before.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u78	We have therefore described within a weekend the number of anti-constitutional violations this legislation has. It must be withdrawn, Mr President, because of its unconstitutional arrangements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u79	Before giving the floor to the vice-president from New Democracy - Mr Syrigos - I will answer what you have asked for, Mr Famele. I read to you the last amendment to the Rules of Procedure: 'The above 1 to 3 amendments' are the ones you mentioned and told me to put them in place, 'The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament shall enter into force at the latest at the beginning of the second session of the IH Period of the President of the Parliamentary Republic until the end'. Therefore, there is no violation, and it was rightly done so. At the same time, for the 60 colleagues we have said to be able to gather together, I would remind you that we have adapted to - I will not say 'cheques' - advice from the scientific community. And that's not unconstitutional at all. Because here I have Article 2 of the Constitution, which says that protecting human value is the primary and sovereign obligation of the state. So it is absolutely constitutional too. Mr. Syragos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. I begin with the first objection of anti-constitutionalism for Article 44 entitled ‘Amendment of d.d.59/2018’. The anti-constitutional claim is based on a subparagraph of Article 24(2) of the Constitution concerning spatial planning and town planning. There it is expressly stated that under the Constitution, the choices and weightings are made according to the rules of science. We see it in the fourth objection - if I am not mistaken - of the SYRIZA on the subject. It is claimed that S.E.’s case-law, which is, in fact, consolidated and in particular, of the plenary ruling under number 123/2007, is being challenged. The S.T.E. state, in fact, that the determination of the use of land is made either by a Presidential Decree or by law. But it must be accompanied by a study. Only in this case, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have no land use definitions. Determination of land uses would be possible if, in a particular area, we defined what the permitted uses are. Let me refer to the decision 123 of the St.A.'s plenary session, which specifically speaks of the Municipality of Voula and the approved plan of the Municipality of Voula. And it says that on "X" plots there is a general residence, on the plots "S" that have a face to face on Varis-Koropios Avenue, there is pure residence and others. That was the arrangement that was judged to be unconstitutional. In the present case, it has nothing to do with the n.d.59/2018, because the decree does not define land uses. It defines the content and categories of land use. In other words, it sets out the framework. You will tell me: 'Does this framework need not be studied?' The answer again comes from the processing of d.c.59/2018. I would remind you that the President-in-Office of the Council is required to go through the elaboration of the Statute. The S.T.E. in the relevant decision, no study has been carried out in the practical processing practice. Why hasn't he put a study on it? Because it's just defining the framework. This is now coming to change this law. Therefore, there is no contradiction or contradiction with S.H.E.’s case-law. Another thing is the definition of categories and content of land uses and another thing about the definition of land uses in a particular area. This is normal that it is evidently done after a study. It is defined in this law, too. In conclusion to the first objection: Determination of land uses is the one made by the individual presidential decrees, not by the a.k.59/2018, which is amended. Neither for publishing nor for amending d.d.59/2018 a study is required. The definition of land uses for protected areas is followed by a study, which according to the case law of the S.H.E. has the characteristics of the strategic environmental assessment. That's all about the first objection. For reasons of briefness, I go to the third objection - I will come to the second - on the unconstitutionality of Article 92. Here we are trying to deal with a problem, which has been received by the SYRIZA Government. What's that? The waste transhipment stations in Attica, which are not spaced, are governed by a specific regime, you cannot improve their equipment, you cannot protect the health of workers in them. And we have here a prominent constitutional obligation under Article 5(5) of the Constitution to protect the health of citizens. The aim of the proposed regulation is therefore to allow municipalities within five years to carry out the necessary urban studies to formalise waste transhipment stations. It's a health problem first. So we consider that the request for design is backed up. That is why the relevant regulation is of a temporary nature. If one of the stations now provisionally introduced does not receive appropriate approval within five years, it is expressly foreseen that its operation will be interrupted. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, can I have your tolerance for two minutes? Thank you. This is therefore a regulation of a temporary nature, which serves the reasons for public interest, above all imperative reasons for public health, from the transhipment stations, which - I repeat - we inherited in a disastrous situation. The order shall be in accordance with paragraph 5 of Article 5 of the Constitution. We have also objected to Article 48. Article 48, refers to d.d.59/2018. We note that today there is no provision for permitted content of uses within protected areas, with the exception of areas of organised tourism that are prohibited, and of the permitted renewable energy sources. All comments made or may be made in relation to the constitutionality of the provisions on protected areas must be seen from this perspective. The proposed arrangements restrict, do not extend the authorised activities within protected areas in relation to the current situation. We need to keep in mind what we're changing today. We have one final objection to Article 99. We are again talking about the rules of science. For reasons of brevity, Mr President, what I have said in relation to the obligation on the studies I have mentioned in relation to the first objection of constitutionality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u81	Me too, Mr. Syrigos. We're starting backwards now. From Mera25, who's going to talk about unconstitutionality?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u82	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u83	Each party, if it wishes, is entitled to speak as well as the parliamentary representative. Is one of you gonna talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u84	Just me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u85	Thank you. Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. The unconstitutionality of this bill is clear, and it is not a question of what the Members of Parliament are judging. He came and told the committee at the hearing, the Citizens' Counselor. The Citizens' Counsel, a fundamental institution of the state, came and stated that this bill was unconstitutional provisions, provisions that violate European law, provisions that are contrary to the decisions of the Council of State. It is clear that these articles have issues of unconstitutionality and we should also withdraw these articles as well as the entire bill, which comes to be discussed in a closed, as we all see, Parliament, where we are less than in a summer section, where we are less than 13% of the Members of the Greek Parliament. This is a disgrace, and in itself it is an unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u87	Thank you very much for being brief. Let's go to the Greek solution. Mr. Hetas and Mr. Villards can speak. Who do you want? You both can.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u88	Both, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u89	Mr. Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u90	It will not go too far, Mr President, since the first place. There are issues of unconstitutionalism in this bill which, apart from the specific issues of unconstitutionalism, as we have mentioned in the committees and we will talk about it and analyse it here, is an unacceptable bill. So it's an unacceptable bill that has many camera devices in it. I am sorry to say this because this was a joint finding, it makes a number of New Democracy officials of special interest with these provisions that we are seeing. And 44, which refers to the use of land, and 48, which are the forest maps, to just tell the world he hears, 92, which is the temporary operation of waste transhipment stations, and 99, which is this commercial triangle they want to do, and all four, these four initiatives you have taken are unacceptable. There is a violent and raw intervention - intervention in the environment, and it is a bill, you understand that, too, unless we are 'other', which you have the whole society in front of you. In this bill, the whole society is against you, and yet a whole bunch of provisions are being violated. The sad thing - I do not know if it is regrettable, this is the process of democracy - is that we are expressing ourselves here, saying the views, but in the end this bill will pass, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u91	Mr. Villardo, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. I shall refer a little to the first committee, to which it has devoted more than an hour and a half to the debate on whether it is the procedure that should or should not be. After an hour and a half, I asked the President of Parliament who told me that there was no different view of the parties at the Conference of Presidents, so the entire Commission procedure had to be continued, and then the plenary. As far as the unconstitutionality of the articles is concerned, there are certainly many problems within the bill. The articles mentioned by the honourable Member are indeed unconstitutional, but they are not just those. We believe, however, that we shall be referring to an article in plenary, and that will be the case in general terms of the bill. Suffice it to say that from all the articles of the bill we do not agree with most and obviously not with the principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u93	Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u94	Mr President, it is clear that the bill as a whole is unconstitutional and not only anti-constitutional but also deeply anti-grassian. This concerns us above all and above all since the Constitution has adapted it in the light of the requirements and needs of the business groups and the respective reproduction of capital and requirements. But with this particular bill, what does the government pursue? It specifically seeks to substantiate the environment and protect it against the priorities of the business groups, so that they can make use of it for profit rather than in the case of protection and the upgrading of the quality of life of the people's families. From this point of view, the provisions which in total include instruments have exactly this footprint, i.e. they implement all the options, all the requirements of the Association of Industries and Enterprises, BSE and other business groups. So, from this point of view and in the four articles that SYRIZA puts on unconstitutionality could be so many more and much more. Article 44 defines, in the name of protection, even in fully protected uses zones that allow a number of activities considered to be profitable for business interests. In Article 48, it redefines the forest maps, thus legalising any kind of changes in uses that have been made in the past, as well as violations of forest land. Under Article 92, in the sense that the government decides and the others are obliged to accept, it arbitrarily determines twenty-fifths of waste transhipment stations, an operation which has eroded not only the mayors but also the popular layers in general. Already in Perama, mobilisation is being carried out against this government decision to approve a transhipment station at this point in Perama. And Article 99 is also the koruna, we would say, of the government's objectives, that 'we are 'implementing what the business groups currently demand' and especially the historic centre, by changing the uses of land, by changing land planning in this case, allowing large-scale investments, particularly in the tourism sector. From this point of view, therefore, there is no doubt, Mr President, that all these provisions are entirely unpopular, serve the needs of capital and, in this respect, violate even this urban constitution which provides for environmental protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor from the Change Movement as Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to start my brief speech from the first point raised by Mr Famelou by Mr Felix: Our procedures here in the light of constitutional provisions on fundamental rights, including environmental rights. Look, the issue of our rights has been concerned since the beginning of March, both with Parliament and with science. We have in our Constitution a provision, Mr President, which the decisions of the Conference of Presidents legalises them even though we are talking about interna corporis against a major reason, but we cannot use this directly by infringing the Constitution. Article 5 of the Constitution provides that for reasons of public health protection no restrictive measures may be taken. What is more forbidden by the freedom of movement that we have accepted to suffer its ban for so many weeks? The legislative acts that we have adopted, Mr President, in agreement with this procedure included too many restrictions on rights. No one raised that issue. If the plenary had an issue to deal with to date, it was the thoughts expressed by two political parties that the House would close, which the other four rejected, saying that the House will never close or with war the House will not be shut down. We keep it open for symbolic reasons, but also for reasons of government control or the adoption of legislative acts, because the days of their validity expired. So I would like to say that we are making progress with such operational decisions that are part of the context that I have mentioned. So, Mr President, we have also proposed, as a movement for change, that is, as a serious party, that we accept the proposal made by the Bureau to vote on the objections of unconstitutionalism which are being tabled today and which will be tabled. When you teach students in law school, you tell them that with the law degree you can do too many things. The scope for exercising professions is great. Also, your due diligence, too, is serious. The only thing that legal science cannot do is replace politics or be a substitute for politics, because, Mr President, when you do not have politics and take legal action, there is no way forward. You'll get tired of a wall and people will understand you. This is a position of principle for me personally, but also for the party to which I have the honour of being also for the five-year period of SYRIZA, but now, in the first year of the governance of the New Democracy, we are very pitiful. With this dreadfulness, which I think is a presumption of seriousness, we are also dealing with this proposal, from which we accept the substance of the objection to Article 44 and not all the rest. Do you know how many remarks a lawyer can make in this draft law? Colleagues who have been here for some years or who have had environmental issues, land planning, and town planning within the House have been bought for many hours. The case law of the Council of State is very rich. I said in my first speech today that you rarely see from the Scientific Service of the House so many pages of registration of legal and constitutional data. I have, Mr President, a very basic one. The very basic thing is the principle, which I expressed in order to limit our operation, but also how we deal with this draft law. I object to Article 93, concerning the Ionian Islands and some Aegean islands. I will not turn them into a legal dialogue and a constitutional dialogue, but in my speech and the rapporteur, Mr Arvanitides, and I and those of us who take the floor will refer to the island regions. However, as far as the uses of land are concerned, although I am following Mr Syragos, whom I appreciate, I would like to say to him that he is not right. We have land-use modifications, if you read what the Scientific Service of the Parliament says. Reading the Scientific Office's report opens the debate. The Scientific Agency is not always expressed in a way that creates political problems, but you understand what it wants to say. Here, with the modification of the use of land, with enlargements, with additions, raises issues and, as Mr Syrians rightly said, but I did not follow them later, politics follows science and that is legitimate, Mr President. The decisions of the Council of State in Article 24 constantly invoke this, as well as something else, which has been the occasion for a number of decisions of the Council of State. When you change terms, when you change uses, you need to monitor the principle of change in order to improve and, therefore, further protect the right. That is not the logic of Article 44. Therefore, we cannot deny the essence of an objection of anti-constitutionality on this. But this is where we stop. Inflation, inflationary policies based on our legal systems do not express us and I personally do not express myself at all. So, Mr President, on the point of order, which you will soon have to tell us, we agree that the vote should be taken by the representatives, as you said, but we, who do not want to fully accept the SYRIZA proposal, how do we treat them? Are we going to vote once or are we going to vote four times? You will solve that when it comes to voting time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u97	One is the application. What are you asking me? I must ask you, no matter where I am in the Bureau. The application is one. So once the vote will take place. We now go to the two parties, to the one that made the proposal that Mr Janakopoulos has the right to speak, and then to the New Democracy, which Mr Bukouros has and then to the Government. Mr. Janakopoulos, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. I shall fully agree that politics takes precedence over law and you must never make a policy in the first place on the ground of legal arguments. But there is one issue. Political choices and political decisions in a rule of law eventually result in law being reflected. What's happened here? In order to understand precisely the size of the institutional derogation and the anti-institutional behaviour of the parliamentary majority, we have to do with this, Mr President. A political choice for the House to function on terms decided by the Conference of Presidents and which, in fact, amend the common text setting out the terms of the agreement and of the democratic game, have never been reflected in this text. So what are we dealing with here? We are dealing with an arbitrary decision, which wants to amend the Rules of Procedure of the House, but without changing its special provisions. Is that what you know, Mr. President? I don't want to say the word. Anti-institutional behavior is the most diligent thing to call this move. Do you realize what a precedent is created under the responsibility of the parliamentary majority? At any time from now on, the Conference of Presidents - and this is not a legal point of view, it is a political argument, because it creates a huge political precedent - with its decision it will be able to change Parliament's Rules of Procedure and recommend the functioning of the House, as it'smoking it'. Is that the rule of law, are these the conditions of institutional restoration, which New Democracy was supposed to serve? This move, i.e. changing the working conditions of the House with the 'decide and order' of the Conference of Presidents of the Parliament, is unprecedented in the years ahead. It's never happened before. You have chosen to change the terms of office of the House, the terms of agreement between the political forces, beyond all the requirements of the rule of law. You're changing the law by decision. You know what that means? This is an imperial policy and a democracy-driven one. Therefore, this whole process is absolutely in the air. He can't find any ground in the law. He finds no ground in the Rules of Procedure of the House. He can't find any ground in the Constitution. You're on the air right now. The draft law is too quickly three points I shall mention. For Article 44, even if we accept the argument of Mr.Syrigos, of the New Democracy's rival, that, in other words, they do not change the uses of land, but the conditions on the basis of which the land uses are defined are changed, which has proved to be not the case before, but I will accept your argument, yet these conditions for determining the uses of land also require the existence of a prior study and are made on the basis of the findings of science. In this respect, I read the relevant paragraph from the Scientific Service of the Parliament, which says: "The technical choices and weightings of spatial planning and urban planning are made in accordance with the rules of science". Not only are land uses, but the conditions and conditions for the definition of land use are a prerequisite for a study which does not exist. Therefore, the article is unconstitutional. On the second point, I note, Mr Syrigo, that you did not say a half a word about Article 48 on forest maps. You did not defend his constitutionality. I can therefore assume that you either agree with the fact that it is unconstitutional or that you do not have an argument to support the reasons why you are changing the forest maps by law, without studying and in substance using and using the already configured administrative procedures provided for in the 2010 Act. Why are you doing this? Obviously something you want to serve, so that you do not pass through the suffering of the competent authorities that will check the individual technical details. And finally, citing again your argument that the change in land use is unconstitutional but in Article 44 we have no land use change - since there is no study being unconstitutional - what do you have to say about Article 99, which amends land uses without any doubt without anyone questioning it? And he does, like Article 92, without any studies. Therefore, for the identity of the reason you should say that yes, Article 44 is not unconstitutional, but, for the very same reason, Article 99 and Article 92 is, but you did not say so. Because, in fact, you are using legal options to support political choices, we are making political choices and we support them in the best possible legal way. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Janakopoulos. As you have seen, you have heard of religious devotion, no one interrupted you. I cannot imitate the very sympathetic to me, Mr Zoe Konstantopoulou, who has had pleasing from the Chair, without going down, because I could see all that you have said. I won't. Sometime I'm down, I'm gonna answer you, but now I'm not allowed to break my role here. And I would like to ask what we have said in private to be implemented, Mr Janakopoulos. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Bukokoros, has the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. I shall refer also to issues relating to the substance of the draft law, but also to the issues of the procedures that, by tabling the proposal for anti-constitutionalism, poses problems like those described by the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Loverdos, once the Qualified Opposition has chosen to lodge an application for unconstitutionality in the written text, to refer to the substance of the draft law at its own angle and according to its own interpretations. And in the debate here in Parliament he made the choice to refer to the procedural issues with which this bill is introduced. I think that the counterfactual on the part of the government party, Mr. Syrigos, in a clear and clear way, has shown in the Chamber that it is not, in relation to item 58/2018, a change in the use of land, but a widening of the framework. After all, in determining the uses of land, the entire hierarchy of the administrative bodies is involved and defines them precisely. From there on, on fundamental issues, Mr President, when we are dealing with urgent public health issues and our Constitution with Article 5, and the interpretation of that, gives the legislator the opportunity. The question was raised about Article 48 and the forest maps and was raised by a political force that actually brought the law on the ratification of forest maps, creating most of the problems, but first and foremost saw its own legislation collapsed part - part of the Council of State. The law on the suspension of SYRIZA’s forest maps has had huge problems and has proved in practice. It also proved judicially in the Council of State by the collapse of forecasts of housing density, by the collapse of the takeover mechanism, but it proved to be the problem of the law and by the fact that seventy thousand objections have been tabled. A hundred and seventy thousand of our fellow citizens with the law of SYRIZA are looking to find their point. And yes, we can all agree in this Chamber, Mr President, that Article 24 of the Constitution, due to the impossibility of the political forces in recent decades to agree on a fundamental constitutional reform, seems today to be written on stone, but environmental laws are not written on stone. And it gives the Constitution itself, saying that by law these issues are dealt with, in full the right of the legislator to decide, and, of course, the Qualitative Opposition has the right to lodge an application for unconstitutionality. We don't all see things from the same angle. I think Mr. Syrig's magnificence should cover us all. From there on, on the subject of the procedure, Mr President, a bill which was processed in the committee responsible under abnormal circumstances, on the basis of a decision of the Conference of Presidents - and there all parties have participated, of course, in expressing their objections, but have participated - will it be introduced in plenary? Is the decision and the deal going to be rebutted? One thing is that. The second issue you referred to earlier, Article 2 of the Constitution, is the highest priority for protecting the good of human life. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that those who think that today - Monday morning, 4 May - are blinding the country and its functions have returned to complete regularity. It's not like that. Special conditions still prevail. I don't have to explain it. It's self-evident when people walk around with masks outside. And the House must send out the message that this reintroduction to normality is gradual and careful, so that we do not jeopardise what we have all achieved together in the battle of pandemic. In addition, if I wanted to support, Mr President, in addition to the gradual reintroduction of Parliament's work, which, if you like, is imposed by common sense, I would say that the Minister himself, speaking to the committees, links this motion for a resolution to the relaunch of the economy. The aim of the bill is twofold, the protection of the environment and the relaunch of the economy. Is it not the economic impact of the pandemic and the resources that the Greek State has spent, which is currently unknown? In other words, the expedited minister does not deny that this bill is also aimed at economic relaunching. Therefore, Mr President, both on matters of substance and procedure, we call for the request for the unconstitutionality of the Anti-Population Officer to be rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u101	Good. And we close with the Government's position, Mr. Hatzidakis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall say a few words in introductory terms and I shall immediately pass on to the request for unconstitutionality in relation to the procedure. The consultation on this draft law has been in fact initiated since last October. Every two months I personally - and I am the first to establish this process - see environmental organisations. The planned - by law, of course - consultation has been made. After this consultation I had a separate meeting - a debate - teleconferencing three and a half hours with environmental organisations, and then we heard here in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities for seven and a half hours. Seventeen of the twenty-fifth bodies were proposed by SYRIZA. I say that for reasons of order. Also, in the debate a number of bodies were clearly placed in favour of the bill, the Committee of the Regions, the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece, the TEI, the GEOTE. And there were a number of actors in the business community that criticised the government, because it does not go any further than it does in this bill. This is to have an image in relation to the process. I would also like to tell you that this bill is urgently to be voted on because there are a number of provisions which they really cannot expect, the management of waste on the islands, the regulation of the issue of the collection of balls - where there will no longer be a building permit, if you do not regulate the legal collection of your balls - the regulation of plastic bags to end supermarketing and industry business tricks, the urgency of forest maps, because we have a hundred and seventy thousand objections across Greece, with farmers in a hostage for too long. And, of course, it is urgent to pass this bill on the relaunching of the economy, because we have environmental permits lasting six to eight years and the average in the other European countries is a hundred to fifty days. So what do you want? Faced with the consequences of the recession with Greece continuing to prosecute Greek and foreign investors? What are we going to respond to the children who are struggling to find a job, but also to the whole economy that is currently seeing the consequences of the recession because of the coronary? That's all I wanted to say in quotes. I now come to the issue of constitutionality. First of all, I would like to say that I thank the Scientific Committee of the Parliament for the remarks it has made, which, as you will see - and you will see - we will take much account of it, because we are not arrogant, nor do we think we have the revelation truth nor that we are coming here with dogmatic obsessions in the belief that we should ignore proposals coming from science, especially when they come from the Scientific Committee of Parliament. I also want to thank the Opposition on the objection of constitutionality, because obviously by exercising its inalienable constitutional right it highlights several aspects of this bill. In this spirit I will address the four individual objections, continuing the excellent placement of my colleague and old student Angel Syrigo. Firstly, in relation to Article 44. The article says in Article 24 ‘Science balances’. Yes, sir. What are we doing here? Do we come and define land uses in Article 44? Oh, no. We are coming and setting a general framework. Why are we setting the general framework? Because so far we have the democracy of the scholars, that is to say 30% of the Greek territory is not legislated by the House, but there is an opaque that gives the right to scholars and to those who may be involved by the public administration to draw up ad hoc regulations which ultimately do not serve the protection of the environment. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] And because there is a myth that in the NATURA areas I have so far not been licensed, I would like to say to you that they have repeatedly become not only quarries and mines, but also hydrocarbons. And it was also done by the government of SYRIZA. If I say something which is inaccurate, you can fix it. Now let's put a framework with four belts, four tiers of absolute and less absolute protection. And after this general framework that will be set in order for the scholars to move, I repeat, in one context, we will have the following three elements, which have been completely ignored by those who have spoken of the objection of unconstitutionality. First, it'll be based on science's weightings, as you said. We will have specific studies that will be carried out by scientists for this reason. They are eleven, twelve studies throughout the country. That's the one. Secondly, these studies will be followed by a specific management plan per region. That would also be okay with our obligations towards the European Union. We are, however, moving forward with a step further, based on the rules of science and giving the final word to the Council of State by means of a presidential decree for each individual region. So we have specific environmental studies, management plan and presidential decree. What more should we do to keep up with the requirements of the Constitution? And all these provisions didn't come because they came down from our pit. They came by having spoken with prominent scientists of Constitutional and Administrative Law and, if you like, if you like - and here I can say a name - as legal adviser to our Ministry itself the Vice-President of the Legal Council of State. It's not a bill clipboard made. I accept that it may be bold, but it's not clipboard. I now go beyond Rule 44, Article 48.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u103	Minister, I would ask you to keep in mind in time. We've already lost an hour and a half since the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u104	Yes, Mr President, but I answer to everyone together.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u105	I didn't tell you not to go on. It's just at the expense of the bill now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u106	As far as forests are concerned, then, we are accused of the opposition and in the context of the request for unconstitutionality that we send to the bells the tariff and the drawing up of forest maps. Just the opposite. On the bells it went so far, because with the hundreds of seventy thousand objections and the pace of their vengeance we would need twenty-seven years to complete the examination of objections for half of Greece! If you put on the other half, we'd go to fifty-four years! There is no more classic definition of bells than what has been happening so far. So we come and accelerate the examination, we increase the committees, we connect their remuneration to the result of their work and to some fields for which there is the act of administration before 1975, before the entry into force of the Constitution, and there is the decision of the prefect, there is the decision to reafforestate, to expropriate and others, and which are now being cultivated and declared to the OPECE and you go and see rice, stalks, barleys, for all these things we are ending the hostage of thousands of our fellow citizens and we expressly define, according to the case-law of the Council of State, that the use to date must not have changed. If someone took something from Eleftherios Venizelos in the context, for example, of regulating refugees and then forested and forested, it will obviously remain there. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, That is what the Council of State says, and I do not understand why this noise is being made especially by SYRIZA, which is completely open, especially to the rural world.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u107	Minister, shorten up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u108	I shall conclude, Mr President. I come to the third and last comment on Article 92 on transhipment stations. We have twenty-five regulations for relevant municipalities, which have a problem not only with compliance with Union law, but also with public health problems. We need to make the transhipment stations. You understand that, and I don't think I need to explain it any more. There is Article 5(5) of the Constitution, which explicitly provides for what is happening in this case - read it - as is also the case in Decision 965/2007, paragraph 15, of the Council of State - which I have here - which explicitly provides for exemptions for HSY for reasons of public health. We are absolutely in the case of the Council of State. Finally, with regard to the constitutionality of Article 99, Mr. Syrigos again argued - if I understood correctly Mr. Loverdos, who only spoke of Article 44 - regarding land uses in the center of Athens. Listen, ladies and gentlemen! And we obviously believe that it is an article that is completely constitutional, but also an article that happens to be accepted by the Municipality of Athens. However, in order to avoid any doubt that we do not want to legislate desecrated, and because, anyway, we are preparing a spatial - town bill that will be filed in the next two months, this provision, to make certain hotels in the center of Athens, and not to waste the Stadi, Piraeus and others - that was the great crime, and that is why we are talking about it - we will temporarily withdraw it and bring it back to the town bill, so that it is part of our broader planning. So this is our position and I think that from this position, we have studied this very clearly very clearly. We may disagree politically, but we have legally tried to be on very stable ground, and I am sure that there will be an important cut by voting on this bill. This bill is a green development tool. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u109	Good, the process is over. According to what was said at the start of today's sitting - with a little tension, but in detail - the six rapporteurs are voting. Thereafter, the Bureau...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u110	Mr President, you will allow me to make a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u111	That's what we've come up with, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u112	The Bureau therefore finds that the motion for a non-constitutionality by a majority is rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u113	A statement, at least allow me!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u114	Mr. Femmelle, listen. I left you and you spoke ten minutes. Make your statement in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u115	Please, just a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u116	Here, you have the floor for two minutes, for a two-minute statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u117	Article 100 of the Rules of Procedure simply...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u118	This thing can't be done!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u119	It's by decision of the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u120	Mr. Janakopoulos, we heard you so carefully. You don't have to. Mr. Famelle, you have the floor for two minutes for your statement. The process of unconstitutionalism has, however, been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u121	Mr President, let me say. On the procedure against the constitutionality of the bill and the placement of the plenary on it, I call - if I am not mistaken - on the nomadic phrase of Rule 100 - I very much ask you to read it in plenary - which says that the Members of Parliament are being resurrected or raised. Please, we state the position of SYRIZA that this is the only way in which plenary can be held. Mr President, you cannot break the Rules of Procedure. That's it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u122	Good. You said it at first. This issue has been rejected. It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u123	Who was rejected?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u124	By a majority of the House was rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u125	Tell us where it was rejected to be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u126	It was rejected by the fact that the New Democracy has the majority, Mr. Loverdos also agreed with the objections the Greek Solution had. So, it was three out of six parties and it's over. What are you talking about? Mr. Femelle, it's over. You don't have the floor. You made your statement and it's over. I would ask the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Ioannis Economou, to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u127	The three parties agreed to violate the Rules of Procedure! Do we start by violating the Rules of Procedure? We're talking about the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u128	You've arbitrarily worked!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u129	Please! I tolerated several insults because you told me that I was arbitrarily working and I did not hear it! Not to go back to the recent past! Mr. Economou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u130	Mr President, I would ask the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u131	Mr Arseni, then. I am also making another proposal to you in violation of the Rules of Procedure now, my own, but you will probably unanimously accept it. It was something Mr. Voutsis had advised me not to be so endless in times when the bills are big. So because the bill is too big and instead of fighting, I suggest that the rapporteurs and speakers instead of fifteen minutes - the maximum we have given - should take eighteen minutes, but keep them...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u132	More than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u133	No, Mr Economou, we are not going to take it as a courgette. Of course, the Members who unfortunately have only seven minutes to be able to speak nine to ten minutes for such a large bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u134	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u135	Mr. Arseni, I've already called a speaker in Stepma. After Mr. Economou, before Mr. Famelos gets up, I'll give you the floor. Don't worry. Start, Mr. Economou. You've got eighteen minutes, and if Tasula puts the voices, I'll call Voutsi to defend me!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u136	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the effective treatment of the coronary pandemic other than the obvious one, namely the correct treatment we have had in terms of protecting human life, has also restored the prestige of politics and the confidence of society in the operating mechanisms of the state. Decisiveness and design, knowledge of the resources we could use and of the weaknesses we had to manage, confidence in science and a leading role in experts and courageous recognition of the mistakes where they were, these were the features of the leadership of the Prime Minister, the Government, these were the ones that led to the amazing response of the public officials, but also the completely responsible attitude of the Greek society and all this led to the results that the whole world is talking about today. But both expectations from the management of this first phase of pandemic and the very difficult we have in front of us in dealing with the difficult economic situation that awaits us make it necessary - compulsory, I would say - for the government not to waste valuable development time. Our choice to discuss and vote on this bill, the consultation and preparation of which were launched last October, as the Minister pointed out, at this very moment, is precisely at this wavelength. Ladies and gentlemen, the interconnection of the environment and development lies at the core of the bill we are debating today. With the changes, with the areas, with the legislation that we change and adapt, we make environmental policy profitable for the environment, we render any practices that undermined it unprofitable and illegal. We are well aware that the environment has been a victim of the way in which the country developed. We know that environmental degradation creates misery, creates poverty and prevents growth. So, in the ten chapters and other provisions, in the 130 articles of which it is composed, this bill introduces a series of effective and bold regulations that go beyond the old conception, which conflicts with environmental protection, development and quality of life and shows how interdependent and mutually reinforcing these parameters are in our time. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, before entering into the description of the main provisions and articles of the bill, I would like to do something that I consider to be very important. When we talk about the environment, ladies and gentlemen, there is often an auction for who has the greatest environmental sensitivity and there are few times when some are invoking the exclusive right to defend the environment for themselves. So let us see what is now and in real life a policy that respects, highlights and exploits the environment. Such a policy is obviously a spatial planning with respect for biodiversity. Such a policy is the increasing use of clean energy both by entrepreneurship and by citizens in their daily lives. Such a policy is the energy upgrade of homes and buildings, it is recycling at the source and reuse of materials, it is the efficient management of protected areas, so that they combine harmoniously and their protection and rational use and development. Such a policy is to improve the quality of life of citizens through waste and waste and ultimately such a policy is to attract green investment and create many well-paid jobs. If, ladies and gentlemen, we agree on these assumptions, if we really want such a development for our country, then we have to go to the next step, to consider whether with the existing institutional framework, and especially whether, with the immobilisation, we support this logic, if the four years that are needed for photovoltaic permits and the eight for windpipes help the rapid development of clean forms of energy, if the eight years that are needed for environmental authorisations have added nothing more to protect the environment, at the time that has led to a shipwreck of hundreds - not to say more - investment efforts, if the swamp on the sidewalks and streams and the trash hills on the islands are a quality of life, if the personal and graceal arrangements for land use in protected areas give them the protection they deserve. Ladies and gentlemen, for the government, for the Prime Minister, for the Ministry's leadership and for the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, the answer to them and much more if it is our concern for the environment. Faced with the distortions that cause them and not the ideologies, strangles or even fears of change are the measure of our concern about how to move forward, how to shape an environment, how to preserve our own wealth for us and for our children, and this very perception, ladies and gentlemen, serves the bill. In particular, we in the first chapter simplify and accelerate both the adoption of new and the modification and renewal of old authorisations for the environment. We are reducing the time of environmental licensing from eight years until now in six months. How do we manage that? We can do this because we are reducing the deadlines, reducing the stages, exempting services from unnecessary burdens, by introducing the unsatisfactory institution of the private evaluator. We are doing this by making the role of the CSDP very functional and effective. We are doing this by asking only those services whose object is involved in the investment in question. We achieve this through transparency conditions by introducing the institution of the electronic environmental study register, the Electronic Environmental Register, where it will be transparent and accessible to anyone at every stage of the authorisation. We are also able to reduce time in the regulations in the second chapter on RES. Today, ladies and gentlemen, there are still a thousand five hundred applications pending in RAE, many of them since 2016. This distortion and this delay we are facing, replacing the authorisation of the first phase with the introduction of the production certificate. Instead of two years, it will be ready and accessible and possible to produce the RES in two months' time, since only those criteria which are considered to be basically the first stage will be considered for its adoption and all that is already being examined in the next period will be excluded. At the same time, strict time milestones are being introduced for investors so that the licenses they take at the start lead them quickly to the next stages of the licensing process to reach the maturity of their investment. Finally, an EIA is established where each request will acquire a specific identity and this will also be accessible to anyone. I now come to the management bodies of the protected areas. The protected areas in our country so far are supervised by management bodies who are, in fact, trying with the means to carry out a project. In many cases this work is important, we recognise and respect their work. We had the luck, and the Minister and I, of visiting a number of institutions and seeing it closely. However, we cannot ignore, ladies and gentlemen, that there are huge gaps, such as gaps in human resources, gaps in logistical infrastructure, gaps in management and administrative failure to prevent these bodies from participating in programmes with whatever benefit this participation would have, but also a benefit to environmental policy in our country. They are voids that have to do with fragmentation of actions, gaps that prevent them from attracting 'green' investments, so that local communities can benefit from activities such as ecotourism and organic farming. The cherry on the cake? Many of these bodies - not everyone - are impossible to operate on weekends, only on a daily basis. In other words, there should be no attraction of tourists and visitors. How do we deal with these distortions? In the place of fragmentation we introduce a single central design. With the introduction of FFOPEKA, a legal person governed by private law, these actions are consolidated. There will be a central surveillance of this organization. There will be persons of known prestige, competence, scientific relevance to command him. It will be possible for workers to be absorbed and to work permanently after evaluation by the AACC. There will be opportunities for much greater financial support in order to make a more important job, the one that suits the protected areas. In the fourth chapter, ladies and gentlemen, in the protected areas of the NATURA network, areas that account for 30% of Greek territory, we are creating a framework with clean conditions and solid bases for mild and sustainable economic growth. I would like to say a few words here about the NATURA regions. Here either ignorance or deliberate confusion that usually comes from large and many environmental krone is the wrong impression that in these areas there is nothing allowed and we criminals are coming to put on land use and activities. That, of course, is not the case. Alas, if that were to be the case for 30% of the country! Instead, hotels, restaurants are allowed, activities are allowed, streets are allowed, various infrastructure projects are allowed, such as the Presidential Decree on the Cyprian, which I am tabling in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Economou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Apart from that, there is more to it. There are also wind parks - today that we are talking about - as in Berlin and according to the case-law of the Council of State. Mining is allowed which, again with the approval of the Council of State, is carried out in the region of Gonia in Central Greece. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What, then, is the crime that the current government is committing as far as protected areas are concerned? In a chaotic and irresponsible context that allowed personalised arrangements, a list follows on from the list provided by the Presidential Decree with very clear land use and activities that will be allowed in the four areas that we are demarcating in these protected areas. We ensure that none of these will lead to environmental degradation through the roadmap, as well as the need for an environmental study, while always leaving the Council of State the role of final approval, before any management plan, of which no one disputes the well-known environmental sensitivity, is implemented. In the fifth chapter of the bill, we are dealing with the matter with the forest maps. It has also been mentioned in the motion for unconstitutionalism, so I would just like to add two elements, Mr President. Today we are talking, ladies and gentlemen, a million acres of land are in dispute, because they are supposed to be forests, because the administration itself does not have decisions of the administration itself that declassifies them with previous actions. I submit to the Minutes and the relevant publications. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Economou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned publication, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As a result of this history, hundreds of thousands of farmers are deprived of the possibility of paying the associated compensation from the OPECE. The nicest thing to do? If we did not do what we do in this bill, what should farmers do? Or they should go to the opposition committees and wait for their right - logically in twenty-seven years, because at the moment there are seventy thousand objections pending - or should - listen! - in accordance with the instructions put forward by the OPEKE itself - I will also present this in the Minutes - to buy the land out of themselves virtually through an entire process in order to solve and overcome the motto in order to get these subsidies. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We in the regulations that we are introducing are giving a solution to this problem - it is a solution that incorporates earlier public decisions - and at the same time we are also making the opposition committees more operational. I'm coming to chapter 6 for the settlements. Here in full compliance with the spirit and letter of the Council of State and with the drawing up of fully scientifically substantiated criteria, we better define what the settlements are. We also justify, or - in any case - a framework in which it can be concluded that the maintenance of some of them is for the benefit of the environment in relation to their possible collapse and, of course, we are returning to the Council of State for the final reason as regards the legality of application since it is the Presidential Decree that will be decided by the Council of State. Very important are the arrangements in the tenth chapter concerning the management of the waste to which the Minister referred earlier: arrangements such as not to end up in the pedestrians and streams, as a building permit should now be attached to an agreement for the management of the bazaars by an approved system for the management of excavations, construction and demolition waste. Regulations on simplification for national and regional waste management plans. Arrangements concerning the processing of biowaste and, in particular, regulations that put them in a better order and deal with waste issues in the islands of the southern Aegean and the Ionian Sea. They are regulations which are obviously in the direction of improving the quality of life and the protection of the ecosystem in these areas. What happened to these islands? These islands are the islands that face the greatest problems. The three of the four areas for which we are candidates for new fines are in these areas. It's Corfu, Zakynthos and Mykonos. On these islands we have most CIDs from any other region of the country. Because of the logic that on each island we would also have a FOD there is a lack of capacity due to administrative and management deficiency in the proper management of the waste. We know them, we live them, we watch them on television. What do we come here and do? Are we doing something that isn't tested? Did we get it out of our head? We also come to apply to these islands structures operating in the rest of the country, in the region of Attica, in western Macedonia. We are creating, in the form of an anonymous company, a 40% stake in the region and 60% in the rest of the municipalities. There are very important regulations, Mr President, and the other chapters of the bill. Accelerating the country's real estate, forecasts for increasing the energy efficiency of buildings, forecasts for closing the windows in the plastic bag, forecasts for funding from the Public Investment Programme for connecting real estate to centralised sanitation networks, and, of course, an increase in the compensation for the main occupation of farmers for photovoltaics. This compensation has been drastically reduced since 2014. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken to you about the changes it brings to critical areas, but also about the prospects for sustainable development that shapes the draft law that we are debating. I would now like to say a few words about the criticism we have received. First of all, for the criticism we receive from operators and environmental organisations: to make it clear that we in New Democracy fully respect knowledge, sensitivity, supply, experience, the work they have done in relation to the environment. We have also proved this with the meetings established by the Minister for the Environment. It is no secret that in a number of issues relating to the exploitation of our natural wealth, which have to do with developmental activities around the environment, we have a different perception. We didn't hide it. It's not a secret. But I sincerely want to tell them that the Government is always legislating to shield any development option against any possibility of deterioration of the environment, having the Council of State on a central role to take the critical and final decisions and very clearly describing a roadmap of environmental studies with high standards of environmental protection. They should not deny this, and they should not be so easy and so - I would say - loose in characterisations and expressions of the type of crime, and so on. Now, for SYRIZA's criticism, what can I say? As we have seen from the public speech, from the committee and from the points of viewpoint of procedure it is a criticism, ladies and gentlemen, that regresses between the refusal of reality - I have often felt that they read another bill - but also from the extreme hypocrisy, since they fully deny the politics, laws, signatures and decisions they have taken on the issues they report to us in 2015-2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u137	Two more minutes, Mr. President. That explains the courage and pretension they have when they accuse us of altering the status of protected areas, those who have only taken out a presidential decree on protected areas for four years. That explains their courage when they accuse us of committing us of committing to the environment, because we are allegedly allowing mining for hydrocarbons research while they did exactly the same. And I put to the Minutes the articles, decisions and statement by a Member of the SYRIZA, who says 'NATURA 2000 areas', are not excluded from the mining surveys, I tabled a draft amendment asking the Minister for the Environment and Energy to exclude these protected areas from research for hydrocarbons. The answer of the Ministry was negative". [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Economou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as candy is concerned, what can I say? The apostomistic responses given by the ministers to the committee show the extent of insanity. Also, what to say about protected areas, where the SYRIZA Government itself failed to support the model it created. The eight new agencies that they have do not have employees, do not have staff, do not even have basic infrastructure. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill fully reflects our philosophy. That is why we in the New Democracy are not only pleased, but we are also proud of the issues we are dealing with and of the horizons that we are opening up for the conditions of security, legality, accountability and transparency that we are creating for the environment, society and entrepreneurship. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has said that it is the only clever development policy for Greece that respects the environment and quality of life, and that is not only our obligation towards the future generations but also a unique opportunity to make our lives better. The draft law we are debating today is a large and stable step in this direction, so I would ask you to vote in favour of it. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u138	Mr Arsenis has the floor for two minutes, who had asked for the floor earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. What I would like to say, of course, is a little out of discussion right now. I would like you to give me the floor as Mr Famello has done, so that I can make my statement. It is very simple, I have already raised it. It is not possible that it is absurd and unconstitutional to change the rules that this Parliament operates on the basis of decisions that go beyond the procedure provided for. There is a procedure for changing the Rules of Procedure. Until these procedures are observed we cannot change and decide to make decisions in an irregular manner, because that is what we are experiencing. Neither the Conference of Presidents nor any other body can replace the procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u140	Thank you. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the debate on the issues of constitutionality, I must begin by saying, on behalf of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, that today we are living on a day of appeasement of the Greek Parliament and of the parliamentary rules, of procedures and, unfortunately, of the policies of the environment and of the environment of our country. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] Today we are living a day - and tomorrow if Mr Mitsotakis continues to insist that this bill be passed - which will be characterised as an indelible reciprocity in the face of the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Environment, because there is the political choice of Mr Mitsotakis to introduce this bill with limited participation of MPs, so that he can go through very serious arrangements to the detriment of the Greek nature and the Greek public environmental policies. And all this, while society gives us a fight of life. It is therefore a second insult to all people who are struggling, in health services, in cleanliness, in civil protection, because on their backs and while we all respect the rules of science for the protection of human life, Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Mitsotakis are trying to legislate against the Greek environment, unlike many decisions of the Council of State, the Constitution itself and many European directives. Obviously, they are attempting for the first time to degrade the agreement we have made here in Parliament and to legislate on issues that are irrelevant to the pandemic, so to overthrow an agreement that has been made to respect the rules of science and to legislate contrary to the rules of science and the environment. For this reason, all environmental organisations are against them. Tens of thousands of citizens sign resolutions, and even though conventions, conventions, events, are not allowed, there is a massive popular reaction. Did the government ask us to stay home? No, our scientists asked us to stay home. The political world has advocated. But as long as we stay at home, it seems that Mr. Hadjidakis chose to shut us down to do the dirty work. We must put this before the Greek delegation, as well as the insult of democracy and the depreciation of environmental policies. It is a 'black' day for the Ministry of the Environment to be introduced as the first bill with limited debate in the Greek Parliament of the Ministry of the Environment - and I do not know whether there has been such a process of containment in the history of the Greek Parliament and of the involvement and violation of the Rules of Procedure - and to bring this reciprocity. At a time when we have to do exactly the opposite, to support the balance with biodiversity, to support sustainable development, to support the public sector and public policies in recovery - because the private sector alone cannot give answers - and - to see Mr Hatzidakis - contrary to what is happening worldwide today, which we are trying to make the relaunch of economies and social functions - disprove both science and political global leadership and to choose Mr Mitsotakis against the public interest and the environment to make this relaunch. After all, they also said that the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has said that the economy must restart, and that is the best message. They want the economy to restart - because it will not reboot like this - at the expense of the Greek environment, and that is what everybody says, not just by SYRIZA. All parties, which are all across the street, say all environmental organisations. They want to irreparably affect the Greek environment through limited participation in our own debate and this has also been revealed to Parliament's committees, but also to the amendments of the fifty-three pages that entered on Thursday evening. All the NGOs said so, all the scientific bodies said so, and the workers who prevented them from coming to Parliament to speak. This option suggests that the government does not want to have a substantial debate. He left only two Members from each party in committee, regardless of committee working hours, and the Members were unable to exercise their democratic right. And that has not been decided by any Conference of Presidents and it is a very serious violation of the Rules of Procedure of the House. We have raised at least four articles that are deeply unconstitutional, as is the procedure being unconstitutional and which violate Article 72. It is not only the public function of the environment that is affected, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is not only the public function of the environment. In the bill, there are photographic provisions for the service of New Democracy's day-to-day and routing. While society makes this scientific agreement and the health agreement, you come here and prove that you do not respect either scientists or people. It is no mistake that environmental organisations are talking about environmental crime. They are right and that will remain forever in the political debate. We have asked and asked for today - and this is the essence of our position - that the bill should be withdrawn and not only the article 99 or part of it, which, as has been proved to be incompatible in constitutional terms but also in legislative terms. Many other articles are like this. And Mr Hatzidakis' first retreat proves that SYRIZA was right, that non-governmental organisations were right, that society is right. This bill is counter-environmental, unconstitutional and must be withdrawn. We will not legitimise his vote at any time. Society will overthrow it, the European Union will overthrow it and the Council of State will overthrow it. Of course, why are all this trying now? Because the government has tried to play the last scenario of political deception. Twenty million in the media, extension of payments and commitments to canalarchs, deferral of payment, reduction of remuneration to DIGEA. And all this for what? To hide the truth, so as not to play the first theme in the news releases, even though it concerns the life of our children, which Mr Hatzidakis hypocritically mentions. Mr Mitsotakis at the Great Week said that every power must abandon the unavoidable need by strengthening accountability, because no emergency need can challenge them with democratic sensitivity. Now what is the need to question Members' participation in the parliamentary debate? What is the need to challenge the right of the state and society to participate in the dialogue? It seems the democratic and environmental sensitivity of both Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Mitsotakis is pretextual. They only use ecology to make advertising, but not to pursue environmental policies. We know why Mr Hatzidakis wants to sneak through this bill, because he sells public property without cause and obligation, because he serves the complexion and services of days, because it serves molest and disastrous activities at the expense of the environment by reducing environmental requirements, including existing legislation, and because it shuts down public environmental bodies. It is tragic that even the amendments which came on Thursday evening - fifty-three pages - essentially two new bills that violate both the rules of consultation and the rules of transparency, and contain a very strong conflict of interest. It is also at the expense of the national interest in hydrocarbons and natural gas, apart from mixing everything roughly and violating European environmental directives. It is clear to us that this government is a government of political deception which has neither sacred nor loyal and has chosen during a period of pandemic to offend the Greek environment. In parallel to the vouchers' and teletraining scandals, along with the degradation of the minimum wage and the obligations we have towards work, which Mr.Mitsotakis' government is currently doing, Mr. Hatzidakis did not have to deal with the power cuts that occurred to professionals who kept "We stay at home" in the previous period, but he is dealing with how he will irreparably affect the Greek environment, because there is no need to impose the debate on this bill. The Bureau, in the case of the plenary and in the case of committees, decided to violate the Rules of Procedure of the House. What does it mean when both the Bureau and the chairman of the committee decide to violate the Rules of Procedure and to hold a meeting? Did you want to hide something further, Mr. Hatzidakis? Does it mean that it is the government's choice not to allow this debate and not to allow Members to count on an application for unconstitutionality, as well as on the procedure of the Committee on Production and Trade? The Greek Parliament is also designed to succumb to the risks to the Greek environment, to the quality of life for both Greek and Greek, which hides this bill. Furthermore, it turns out that the state as well was a deception, because there is no more evaluation committee - the former CEN has been abolished - and we do not have basic legal tools and assessment and documentation before the committee procedure. We had to wait for the Citizens' Counselor and the Scientific Committee to come and advocate what SYRIZA and the other parties said, namely that this bill is contrary to both the Constitution and to the decisions of the Council of State. All environmental organisations on 14 March asked for Mr Hatzidakis to postpone and resume consultation. SYRIZA has asked for this 17 March and we are coming to be confirmed today, because while he has made a commitment to me personally that there will be a rich democratic dialogue with participation and time, we are now in workshop conditions to operate with limited Members' participation. This is the greatest inconsistency in terms of democracy and the New Democracy and Mr Hatzidakis. And all this because it cannot stand up to dialogue on democracy. It works on the state of emergency to get through what could not be done under normal conditions, because it makes the judgement an opportunity to reap the parliamentary procedure. That is why you were left alone as a parliamentary group in this debate. You have hidden your MPs too! Can I tell you some messages that came from the Ionian? You have also hidden the Ionian MPs, because the whole Ionian Islands are asking the MPs to take their seats. Why is the property of self-government reduced, why are the rights of citizens and municipalities being reduced to decide for the reward fees? Why is the municipality's ability to choose the conditions for awarding and auctioning projects reduced? Who want to play with the assignments and works on solid waste in the Aegean, the southern Aegean and the Ionian? And why is the northern Aegean absent from this arrangement? They don't need it? Or is Corfu smaller and weaker than Lesvos? That is all you need to answer, Mr Hazidakis, because society is asking for answers. Let your Ionians come in here to place themselves in the House. But you do not have any political dignity to make this political dialogue either. The draft law is not just bruises and horns that are bleak and let it seem to you that they are fifteen different chapters. He's got a strategy. Degrade the Greek environment. There is a systematic effort to degrade all functions for the environment. It reduces environmental licensing, reduces the role of services in opinions, transfers authorisations to political persons. The Citizens’ Counselor said that this would reduce the credibility of the processes. It abolishes NATURA 2000 operators throughout Greece. It abolishes its participatory and decentralised structure, takes them to a service at the Ministry outside the Directorate-General for the Environment and Biodiversity with individuals within its operation. It cancels forest maps and renders the rule of law in respect of spatial data, because it abolishes any regulation until now we have managed to reform forest maps. It removes the responsibilities of the LAGs, which also has a question of substance and unconstitutionality. It sells out the electricity transmission network in the country, a basic public asset that we had won in bankruptcy and memorandum to keep in Greece. It changed until first the land use of Athens. He took it back, but other things will be taken back along the way - we will insist that the bill is not passed - and he settles heterogeneously with a large number of photographic devices. It is an organised project of interest service. It's no accident. It is an organised process of reducing the public's interests. Clearer is Mr. Hatzidakis, who has received this order. He was proud to sell most of the public services to a recent visit by the Prime Minister. Obviously Mr. Mitsotakis approved these. These are the clearers. So they clean up, as they dismantle businesses and sell their property, so they want to do to the Greek state. It violates European directives and biodiversity and protected species, but also as regards environmental licensing, environmental assessment, and access procedures for public information and the Aarhus Convention. It also restores 2013-2014 Memorandum Arrangements. The institutions left, left the memorials with the struggle of Greek citizens and SYRIZA and now came from the back door Mr. Hatzidakis to bring a new memorandum. Because the abolition of NATURA, like the sale of IPTO, was a Memorandum of Understanding and bring them back from the back door. That is why we will not legitimise this bill. What does this bill include on large axes? The complete revelation of what New Democracy is. What's in it? Despair for democracy, consultation and participation. Depreciation of decisions of the Council of State. Infringement of the environment and delay of sustainable development in Greece. Selling public property. Remuneration of public functions and public policies. Serving interests and ordering daylights and all that in a fast news bubble and political deception. This is democracy today. All this in all policies. And let's get started. Depreciation of pandemic, consultation, articles outside consultation, without Members' participation, with a forward-looking debate, as workers say to the institutions. Because they say they've had a lot of meetings with the NGOs. But all NGOs are against the substance of the bill. How is that possible? That's a pretext for consultation. Are we here to get tired in dialogue? At the same time depreciation and the participatory model of bodies and decentralised model and responsibilities of self-government, as seen in another article, and there were decisions on all of them. Allow me, Mr President, as a basic obligation on self-government to table the decision by the Ionian Regional Union of Municipalities, which disproves Mr Hatzidakis, on a request for Ottas to grant them powers. So, Mr. Hatzidakis lied to us in committee. This concerns the credibility of the rapporteur for the legislature. Document of Mayors of Tinos, Milos, Port, Leros, Red Syros who also disagree. Decision of the Central Association of Municipalities, which says that today and tomorrow, we are sceptical about the regions' choice of waste management. A document by the Mayor of Tinos that says that it needs to be made a TEN, because this document that falsely told us that there is a decision by the Regional Union of Municipalities, there is no decision by the Regional Union of Municipalities in the southern Aegean and now the mayors are reacting from a personal letter of opinion, the President of the TEN, and requesting a meeting of the TEN in the southern Aegean. A document by the Mayor of Paros, which says that there was never a meeting of the ETUC and was never called. A post by Mayor Leros that says he disagrees with everything that has been done. I have been informed that there is another document today, which I was unable to bring, the Mayor of Kos saying: "We can manage our own waste on our own." I'll testify to the Minutes. Why, Mr. Hatzidakis, so much lies? Are you or Mr. Grafakos responsible for disseminating false news in Parliament? They lied to us, ladies and gentlemen. So that's not what the municipalities are asking for. Unfortunately, there are pressures from political persons to make decisions at the expense of the democratic will and the need for citizens to give competence and property to the municipalities. This is the New Democracy. This weekend there have been too many pressures for the mayors to retreat. But the decisions are written and I will present them to the House. But it is not just about the issue of the environment and the question of democracy. It also concerns devaluation of institutions such as, breach of decisions of the Council of State, the Presidential Land Use Decree of 2018, the Presidential Decrees and the decisions of the Board. for SMAs. They are violating the decision of the Council of State on Information Forest Papers, an essential point with regard to designations. They're violating S.H.E.'s decision. for forestists in opposition committees and obviously violate the Athens Regulatory Plan. They withdrew that. As far as the environment is concerned, why is it really such a fuss? I will tell you, ladies and gentlemen: there is a great deal of fuss because the environment and environmental policies are an obstacle to the New Democracy plan. I am not saying to growth because they do not invoke or achieve growth, because entrepreneurship will also have serious problems with the degradation of the rule of law and the rules of the environment. Because different air carriers will only do jobs, not serious businesses and serious professionals. The bill is, therefore, a structured plan without a strategy for the environment. They are indeed interventions in all areas. They don't have a strategy, they don't have an ecological vision. The aim is, however, to ensure that there is no environmental policy in Greece. It describes it as an 'environmental crime', 'Greenpeace' and 'WWF', and it reveals that all the senior storeries we have heard here about the Green Prime Minister are lies. There is no green Prime Minister who commits environmental crime and not because SYRIZA and all parties say it, but because all environmental organisations say so too. How's Mr. Hatzidakis, though? It weakens services, puts loops on bodies, does not approve regulations and budgets for a year now, leaves volunteers working in the country's environmental protection bodies and then comes with this excuse and closes them. But the same does in many environmental services. It closes and restricts environmental licensing, forestry services, biodiversity services, ICM evaluators, who use private individuals, without at the same time strengthening public service, without hiring to have credibility and strengthening all these functions. And it does so by abolishing an element, a trademark tabled by Greece: there will be no longer a body in the Samaria Gorge. There will be no body with the turtle in Zakynthos and the cypressian. There will be no body in Valia Calda. There will be no body in the Dadia, in the park of the Alonissos. There will be no body on the rope. Yes, because even there, SYRIZA managed to find resources to make specific environmental studies everywhere, to delimit for the first time - a matter of national interest - the NATURA regions, in December 2017, in the European Union, to set up bodies with decentralised participation, so finance for the first time, so that we have presidential decrees everywhere. And they all come to degrade them with both Chapter III and Chapter IV, with the coronation that creates the land use plan in the NATURA regions and thus lose our country a competitive advantage. Why am I wondering, do all these places know that they're gonna lose the signal on the scene? Because all this will come to the Ministry and to another geographical structure than it is now, so there will be combinations and abbreviations, and at the same time there will be a abolition of planning sequences in spatial planning - it is said by the Scientific Service of Parliament - and the abolition of forest maps, because it excludes areas without the documentation required for the tariff and creates provisions which oblige the review to be carried out and those that are ratified, because today 44% is validated. All that they say about thousands of objections concerns the unregulated section. Why should those who are doomed to cancel? 44% of Greece has dominated forest maps. And why is it that the recruitment of five hundred fifty-fifths of foresters planned by the SYRIZA government for the committees to function in accordance with the provisions of the Council of State? No, that's not what he wants. He wants to place individuals in the opposition committees, to cancel the dignified ones, to exclude areas that have not been controlled by land use and by a deed of characterisation, while - to say it clearly in plenary - he falsely says that the law does not provide for and how the enacted ones are changed and how public acts are introduced. He's saying that very clearly. Officers need the services. He hasn't sent them for a year now, so he can come and say that the services can't work. We simply ask: The five hundred 50 forest scientists approved and scheduled by SYRIZA for why were they not declared? The four hundred employees in the NATURA institutions why have they not been notified? To come shut them down and close the functions of the environment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u142	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u143	Indeed, I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm going to continue in my second talk tomorrow. To abolish even the length of GDP - take care of it - as opposed to what Europe is talking about. And while Europe has unlimited and unlimited strength of the foundations of Greek terms - Mr Hatzidakis, to tell you your partners - it does every five or six years an evaluation. It is not vague about the validity of environmental authorisations in the European Union. Don't lie to the committee. And so he can deceive the country of other things. The Biowaste Directive, behind what the Greek Government has legislated so far, has been a directive on energy efficiency, beyond what we have done so far. Of course, he'll tell us here some new and new ones that he chooses something to be going to a presidential decree. I also told the rapporteur on the part of the Change Movement. Law 1650/1986 and Law 3937/2011 require no choice but to go for a presidential decree to these areas as well as town plans. What's new, Mr. Hatzidakis? Do you do us a favor for something that has been solved for ten years, finally, that it is only by presidential decree? And why are you violating all the other decisions of the S.H.E., as we have shown in the request for unconstitutionality? On forest issues, you're making a big mistake. Because you are also questioning farmers' subsidies, because we will have control and secondary control will see that they are not on the single spatial data base that we must observe, by controlling the rules of the rule of law of Europe. You don't do a handkerchief. You're going to damage unless you've been rousing for a few months.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u144	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u145	Yeah, I have to finish. Excuse me, Mr. President. At the same time, all of this has been done by the Citizens' Counsel and must be heard. But the sale of public property with IPMHE that does not arise from anywhere, which is a national need to have it with public control, which has electrical connections with the islands, hundreds of millions of projects and which was saved by the SYRIZA government's struggle to have public control to go to the airport and to take photos when IPMHE delivers health material to the Ministry of Health, then we have participated in the decisions of IPMHE, and now we do not have and should we sell it? Because they claimed that 51% of IPTO is incomplete to check when we canceled their own competition they wanted to sell - if I remember correctly, Mr Skourletis - 60%. And because all this has been cancelled, the Greek state is coming and avenged, selling out an asset crucial to the development of the country. And the same thing was done in all services. However, if you are serving interests, extending licences without consultation, you are serving the "ELLENIKIKI CHRYSOS", which we have so far known you were the press office of "ELENNIKI CORYS", when we were government and now you have become the legal counsel, scientific advice and expert advice. You are giving an extension and an exception to permits which, up to our own government, were imposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u146	Mr. Colleague, you've been talking five minutes longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u147	All of these are interests which you are serving both with the coronation of specific environmental studies and with the arbitrarily regulated forest maps. Settle next, Golden Boys in the EDN with thick wages, while the increase in the minimum is cancelled. In the APRC, units above 150 MW without paying the 245,000 euros that they need, of course, gold boys and private individuals.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u148	Mr. Comrade, you have your dentext tomorrow. Please. I say it to everyone. You've reached twenty-three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u149	You're right. It's all coming to take on SYRIZA's fault. Yes, Minister. This is the level of your political adequacy. You don't care to defend your own work, but it's all because of SYRIZA. They made videos of the fact that it was SYRIZA's fault for this bill, that it was Rena Duru's fault for the garbage in Athens. He hurt them that five years were not found in the streets of Athens and there were no strikes and the works were working properly. They were affected by Rena Dourou breaking the PPP project that had been agreed in Attica and with the participation of Mr. Hatzidakis for all Greece that had shared the PPP projects and we managed to cancel most of them and reduced the potential for some of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u150	Mr. Comrade, please, you're not helping the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u151	I would like to say, Mr President, because I wanted to present this in the Minutes - and the report by the Hellenic Marine Research Centre, which shows that the "Athens ZONI" is also lying. The ecological situation in the Saronic has been controlled. And you know, they use fines, but we'll talk tomorrow about fines, the governance of the New Democracy, the failures and the manipulations. Clearly we say that it is unacceptable today that there should be a bill at the expense of biodiversity and of public interest. Today, after the pandemic, we should not choose to go with complexity and interests, but we should go with public policies and nature's balance. That's what SYRIZA supports, so we repeat: Withdraw the bill. We do not legalise his vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u152	Mr. George Arvanitides from the Change Movement now has the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has decided to open up the curtain of the legislation in this new period with a bill that started with sixty-six articles and concluded to be a multi-legislative 'bulk' draft with thirty articles, with many critical environmental and energy provisions never being given to and consulted, thereby violating the principles and procedures of good legislation that it has invested in at first with the state of perfection and all these beautiful narratives, with the gangrene of the amendments being left and with the work of many articles in an amendment of many pages without consulting to continue as a pragmatism and all this in the middle of a pandemic and with Parliament operating in new semi-circular conditions, such as in gradual semi-circularity the whole of the country from today. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the new conditions of the pandemic period are calling on us to overcome all ourselves and not to follow the oath of old parliamentary terminology, as the government chooses or to exaggerate our criticisms and tactics of the process, as SYRIZA does. And it was decisive I believe that the contribution of the Change Movement, where, on our own initiative, the process of this bill was finally decided on by teleconferencing, by means of the bodies and by the Members' participation in the committees and in the plenary. So, we understand our role as responsible Anti-Population, so we will continue our presence in the House. I would like to remind everyone and everyone that the teleworking that entered such an innovatory momentum in our lives in the days of the pandemic had already been legislated by the PASOK Government in 2010 with Article 5 of Law 3846/2010, which supplemented and updated earlier European directives, and even older than Article 6(7) of Law 3242/2004 had added to Article 14 of the Code of Administrative Procedure the possibility of a teleconferencing conference on the meetings of the collective bodies. I close this parenthesis about the innovative pioneering of our prolongation and the New Democracy's narratives in the digitalisation of Greece with a reference to the electronic signature and I could say about the e-prescription and all the reforms that had been preceded. Because I saw the Minister of Development happy to show his electronic signature and to sign from his home ministerial decisions and legislative acts, that's why I'm doing this. I would like to remind you that from the period '11-14, when he was himself for a time he was then Regional Adviser at Attica on a term of office of Giannis Sguros and Vice-Regional Chief of Digital Policy, Nikos Androylakakis, five hundred employees of the Attica Region, as well as all the present bodies of the Executive Committee acquired a digital signature in 2012 and since 2015 both the administration and all the members of the body of the former HEME, which is now being cleared up. Please, Minister, continue to see the question of how the staff that has remained with the EMEA will be dealt with. I say this about history, so people don't think the digital signature came to Greece in 2020 because of the particular conditions of the pandemic. Make sure you extend this measure quickly to both the public and elsewhere, for example to lawyers, this will mean that the delivery of electronic signatures goes hand in hand and leave all these new and pioneering narratives which enter the country's economic and social life. What we need now is the awareness of the new data and the rapid and intelligent adaptation to the new conditions, because, as I mentioned in my places in committees, crises unfortunately follow each other and societies and economies need to be adapted accordingly, so that they become more resilient. And as this shock of the multiple crises of the budget, health, development, climate crisis accelerates the end of the stables and models with which we have been going so far, we are driving and there is a need for a new beginning. A new beginning, however, in what direction? What kind of next day do we want? On what axes, what values will we rely on? Who do we want to support, with what tools and what priorities? Here, then, is the policy and those who practice politics make their choices and give answers to these questions. These answers will also be judged by the differences between the political forces from now on, both in Europe and in our country, throughout the world. And we, the progressive space and the Change Movement, give different answers from you, Minister, to these questions that are clearly raised now, especially through your bill, and that is why we are voting against it at first. We give different answers, we put other priorities, we make other choices from you to energy and environmental issues, so I would say that this bill is a symbolic bill that at the same time puts all the questions that I have mentioned. It is, however, a bill below the circumstances and requirements of the energy economy and of the Greek nature and we are voting against it for two main reasons. We are voting against it, firstly, because it does not promote energy democracy in practice. Energy democracy in practice means, Minister, that in relation to energy production from renewable energy sources you must give a few people and not a lot to a few. The provisions of the bill make it clear that your Government's preference for large renewable energy producers at the expense of small and medium-sized producers is clear. The injustices are created and you change the priorities in connecting projects, such as what you have already launched with the outlawing of energy communities. Energy democracy in practice means broadening the basis for energy production and not concentrating on major players only. Energy democracy in practice means applying the best practices of other countries that you so much like to invoke, Minister, like the example of Germany. In Germany 42% of the installed power of renewable energy is owned by households and farmers. Here only 5.4% belongs to the four major energy companies in the country. Energy democracy in practice means, therefore, in the case of Greece support to enable the farmer of Thessaly, the small producer of the Peloponnese, the energy communities in Macedonia, the producer groups with small wind turbines and small hydroelectric generators on Epirus, or where there are conditions of development from all the people who choose to complete their income, to participate in this effort in refreshing the Greek economy. Moreover, the President of the TEE, Mr Stasinos, said attributes that some more improvements were needed when he was formulated. For example, small hydroelectric and photovoltaic projects are not supported. PV and small hydroelectric projects up to 5 MW could be subject to the procedure for standard environmental commitments, such as wind energy. Energy democracy in practice, Minister, means that everyone has the right to investment RES and not only large companies, but also that small investments must be made as a priority and facilitated. We want many small and medium-sized companies and not just energy malls. Thus, under Law 3851/2010, the PASOK Act, some twenty thousand microinvestors were given the opportunity to implement such projects that otherwise, if complex and cost-effective procedures were relaunched with regard to their licensing, they would never have been implemented. And it was just that profit? Oh, no. The Greek society understood what green growth meant, understood and participated in the RES, so there is this climate today on which we are building the new green energy production option. Since then, everyone recognises that Law 3851/2010 was the driving lever that, in the midst of economic crisis, pushed the economy forward with the eruption of small investments carried out by farmers and small investors. Today, ten years later, we have a duty to take the law a step further and not to discuss whether to resurrect small projects under a complex licensing regime. Energy democracy in practice means, of course, simplified permits - and we agree - that have the beginning, middle and end rather than now, Minister, in the first phase, sending an electronic register, that is to say, to upgrade its information system and then by ministerial decision to assign it all to what choice? You haven't made it clear what you choose to do. Energy democracy in practice means transparent and equitable rules for all with a strong system of security-driven controls and not decommissioning, as I said, the Energy Regulatory Authority. Energy democracy in practice also means that all funding for the Greek economy support programmes should be geared to a green deal, a green social contract, and if we do not do so, the European Union's rules will oblige us to do so, because we are waiting for support for our economy in the next few years, but to see with what rules and what priorities it will be directed at, a green social contract for citizens with a view to sustainable development for all, with adaptation to climate change. These are issues that we have been talking about first of all in Greece for years and now that the New Democracy Government has been invoking, I consider it to be a pretext for other attitudes. It's a very nice story to tell, but we'll see the results and we'll watch closely from here and beyond how all this works out. Finally, energy democracy in practice is not, of course, an increase, the doubling of wages to the executives of the Greek Hydrocarbon Management Company. Let us put a question mark on what mining and hydrocarbons mean by the global developments that exist at the same time as postponing the process of raising the basic salary. To make a bridge between the environmental regulations and the second reason why we are voting against the bill, I would like to say that speeding up the development of renewable energy sources must be carried out with absolute protection of nature, of course, through proper placement. We are in a transitional phase, before the revision of the spatial plan, by drawing up specific environmental studies. It is precisely for this reason that this bill should have been given the emphasis on the care of the particular elements of nature in the individual areas. Instead, you put at risk the protection of NATURA regions and do not take into account local peculiarities for the islands of such areas. In short, the second reason why we vote against the bill is the hydrocephalosis that you are imposing with OFYPEKA and the risk of NATURA and the natural wealth of the country. With the establishment of this institution, you are destroying decentralisation and weakening the ability of local communities to participate in decisions concerning their place. Society today is more sensitive, requires accountability, and citizens rightly demand greater control of the company's environmental compliance at every step and increased social and environmental dividends. What we see, however, in several provisions of your draft law is that the decisive reason for local societies is removed, such as Article 110, which allows mining companies to use land belonging to the public and the OTAs and their legal persons, without any consent, no judgment, no remarks from these bodies. The establishment, therefore, of the body with the unjustified merger, without any study by the management bodies of the protected areas, can only be described as inappropriate hydrocephalosis. Honestly, Minister, I do not understand what you are doing in my region, in central Macedonia. We had the pond management bodies, Kerkin, Volbey, Lake Lagada and on the other hand the river delta - I was mayor in the region -, Axis, French, Ludia and the Thermaikos Gulf. How is this, in what study, in what way, will it work and why did you choose it? Geographically? It's not working. For new pursuits? He's not standing. In addition to the problems mentioned by Mr. Famelos of the region, we rebranded the country and for decades the regions fought, Kerkin for the development of ecotourism, we for the protection of the areas below, the design for the renewal of the coastal front of Thessaloniki. How's all this going to happen? From the Ministry? Very difficult. This hydrocephalosis may result in a centralised bureaucratic mechanism, in fear of the risks of client management. Hydrocephalosis, which can also result in the inability to protect these regions effectively, the NATURA regions. Management bodies currently operating in the protected nuclei of the biodiversity of Greece may face serious problems and in some cases remain operational. That's real. However, they have undoubtedly offered important work and have often faced serious problems, they have saved areas of environmental risks all these years, which, with the absence of the government, have faced such local problems with loneliness. We see the natural wealth of our country as a valuable resource and a comparative advantage for sustainable development rather than a brake on growth. They can coexist, as long as we sit by region and plan them really rather than blur water and create local regulations as it suits everyone, and so he thinks it will promote entrepreneurship. Natural wealth, which can bring many benefits to society and the economy, but not by opening corporations with harmful uses and activities. In the protected areas, depending on the degree of protection, a different development model could be built, with very substantial revenues, but without entering into your logic that is trying to pass through the window actions that we believe will benefit a few people. I fear that, with the provisions of your bill, there will be irreparable damage to the natural environment of these regions, and that will be the case for the next generations, which we have to hand over at least this natural capital that we have received, if not under better conditions. We must also deliver them, Minister, better, more operational and more beautiful cities, a better and more beautiful human capital, which will not be the center of the thematic hotel park, devouring the permanent residents. We believe, Minister, that the removal of the 100 beds per hotel in the center of Athens, in the commercial triangle, Psyrri, Mexogravure, established by a presidential decree of land use in 1998 disturbs the balance between home, commercial and tourist use and the possible creation of a bubble hotel with these provisions in the center of Athens perhaps before the gates. I'm glad you withdrew these arrangements. I hope that when you bring them back, as you announced, in the next spatial plan, you will be more careful and work on them even more. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to give you our point of view and to present the answers we give to the challenges and questions of our times with this key bill. Kobic and symbolic, as I said before, because it draws up and gives directions for what kind of growth we want in Greece, with which principles and values and, above all, with whom in the front line. The Change Movement wanted to make a constructive contribution to the bill. We have submitted you with a multi-page note, as we understand it, with proposals that you could and can include in the bill. There are, of course, several provisions that we will vote for, but our difference with you remains central, philosophical and political. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the new conditions of the multiple crises lead us to the need for a radical reconstruction of our productive model and our way of life at the end of the day. We must once again define the whole web of our relations with the environment, development, health. We propose and prefer a recovery plan for society and the economy, which we define as a 'green social contract'. A 'green social contract' based on the cooperative economy. In this 'green social contract', energy democracy for the benefit of the many, decentralised production of energy and decision-making are key pillars which dictate us to vote against the principle of this bill in so far as these pillars are believed to be being circumvented and not fulfilled. That is why I would once again call on the Government to look carefully at our proposals, the proposals of the institutions as they have developed on televising and the proposals of the parties and to change radically the questions and direction, as well as carefully to look at the very serious concerns - and I have to say that it has admitted - that the Scientific Council of Parliament has put an unprecedented report on an unprecedented area, as Mr Loverdes has pointed out, on a report of fifty-five pages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr Arvanitides, for the time. Immediately afterwards, Mrs Diamanto Manolakou has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u155	The first time we asked for the bill to be withdrawn. The same is true now, because the bill has a hundred and thirty articles with a thousand different topics, which are three different drafts in the wrapping of one, and each rapporteur should be able to speak more than one hour to highlight the serious consequences that will arise in the lives of the people and in the environment that lives and works, where with legislative terminology you end up with energy and environmental resources and move further, to deterioration, but also to destroy the environment and to future generations. If the House were to function normally, many more would take the floor, in order to highlight different aspects and the disastrous consequences, but also the continuation between the current and the previous government. That's right. It's an outcry. Many associations, trade unions, environmental bodies, municipalities, parents' associations etc. requested the withdrawal of this monastic thing. They rightly characterized it as environmental crime, since you degrade and shoot whatever environmental grid was available for protected areas, even - and allow and promote - mining activities, extractions of hydrocarbons, etc., to ensure business profits alone. This is, of course, what you call 'friendly environmental policy'. So you got so excited to show half the articles in the consultation, which shows guilt, and you chose the time-limited method, i.e. imprisonment, to hide that your aim with the new anti-environmental legislation is to meet the profitability needs of the monopolistic groups, while continuing the policy pursued by all the urban governments in recent years. You make this provocatively cynical, uncovered, taking advantage of even the pandemic. There are many and canabias facilities, gifts, but also photographic devices, rumbles - challenge to business-named groups. In fact, the urgency with which the New Democracy and SYRIZA legislated now come to be replaced by the vote on the bill in Parliament, through a ban on movements and demonstrations. But you should know, the proto-magnetic symbolic events of unions and trade unions have sent out the message everywhere, that the flag of the race is not being sent and the covered mouths have a voice, because the people have paid a lot and are not willing to pay again. With the present bill, then, you grab what's left of memorial and memorial laws that all of you have passed. You are privatising IPTO further, serving civil liberation, as did SYRIZA. You facilitate multinational hydrocarbons to destroy even NATURA regions and further enhance the expansion of RES by stepping up Greek biodiversity. You are changing land use to strengthen the tourism industry at the expense of the people and the environment. And that is what you call the'sections'. So speed up the roller on which remnants of environmental protection have left the environmentally friendly work of the previous governments. Remove also this formal process of renewing the environmental conditions of a project, increasing from ten years to 15 years the duration of the approval of environmental conditions, reducing the requirements and content of environmental licensing dossiers, compressing time with unavoidable deadlines for any control of dossiers, first and foremost environmental impact studies. The results are, if the competent environmental service does not have time to complete the examination within five working days, then the dossier is considered complete. These new tools to reduce the preventive measures to protect the environment and health of the people's populations, because they are considered costly for capital, put them with even greater ease and in more areas, works at the expense of ecosystems and their high environmental value. The demands of the Greek Industrial Association, which were easier to give to the Group's profitability jaws, acted. You're implementing it. So you confirm that, in the face of capitalists' profits, environmental and public health protection is being trampled in and implemented in the realm. Thus, the long -term urban plans, the perpetuation and further growth of the carcinogen are well served by listening to the name of Gender CYTA. You've been doing this for years, whatever government it is, either New Democracy or SYRIZA. You have consistency and you keep going. And that's what this bill looks like in spite of the cohort fights. There is no competition among you about who will be the best manager to satisfy business groups. Furthermore, how defective and provocative your so-called environmental interventions are is also demonstrated in the multi-page report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which is constantly calling for clarification and scientific studies to be inconsistent with the Constitution. You are also moving towards the full privatisation of public services involved in environmental licensing and broadening the institution of certified assessors, i.e. private. All this environmental crime is called'simplification of environmental authorisation'. However, I cannot help mention the felony that is being done in Piraeus, Piraeus, where without the approval of the strategic environmental impact and land use study the PPA, i.e. COSCO, excavators at sea, next to the historical walls and tomb of Themistoklis and digging the seabed for the creation of a tourist port, despite the convicting decisions of residents, bodies and municipal councils. Of course, this is done with the backs of the government, the current and yesterday's SYRIZA, which has already financed millions through the ESRB. Of course, environmental crime also continues to promote wind parks in NATURA areas - which, yes, there are mild activities that do not destroy - according to Mr Mitsotakis' speech at the Greek-German Economic Forum, where he spoke about the vast areas of common green activities in the promising country's many RES projects. This is why the facilities for authorisation of RES projects are on the way to a number of discounts, as the production licence is replaced by the producer certificate. Here, even in watercourses photovoltaic stations you plant. Your incision, therefore, is the greatest acceleration in the RES, in line with the guidelines of the European Union. So you settle the NATURA regions by arbitrary and uncontrolled situations, as you have argued, with their further degradation. This is your anti-environmental policy for groups, as it is a profitable way out for overcompensation in their funds. You neither calculate the environmental destruction of mountains with wind turbines and photovoltaics, nor popular protests from Monemvasia to Ungraves, nor the higher burden of popular strata, since it will increase the cost of electricity they will pay. So you serve the capitalist green development implemented by the SYRIZA government - because these objectives have been achieved by the European Union - but also by destroying the environment and the management of protected areas. To date, the existence of management bodies from the time of PASOK and the efforts to modernise SYRIZA did not ensure their protection and integrated management. It was just a mechanism to serve different groups and NGOs. They were used as tools for privatising environmental sectors from their responsibility for protecting them that the state should have. The bodies set up therefore anticipated projects that were never implemented, since there was no financial aid, except for the publication of brochures for the protected areas which were derived from the forestry services. The workers in these bodies are in complete insecurity. We asked for their permanentisation and integration in forestry services, because they have both knowledge and experience. The establishment of the new organisation of the OFPEKA accelerates more decisively the commercialisation and privatization of environmental sectors. They open doorways and windows to the profitability of environmentally active groups. It is, if you would like, at the same time, a new area of profitability, and it is privatised by the powers of forest service and environmental management. Their subject matter, management and protection, with studies, projects, audits, research, etc., is provoked, and is limited to police control only. You're cheating on her. You are trespassing on the basic principle, however, that the protection and integrated management of the environment and the protected areas, which are state-owned, is the responsibility of the State alone. Your goal is to release areas at the disposal of the capital. At the same time, it perpetuates the worker's work hostage and your laws undermine the environment in the law of the market. That is why we say that only another authority, the labour force, will be able to ensure, on the basis of popular needs, all the conditions for protection and management of the environment. This is also apparent in the areas of protected areas. You remove their protection from forest legislation. You put uses that allow everything, even in places characterized as archaeological, forests, etc. However, it is provocative that you dismantle the national parks and rename them in "national parks", to put an end to their protection, since there could be no interference at their core and nature was undisturbed. Now, and businessmen will go for mountain tourism and ski resorts and shelters, etc., and a reduction in biodiversity. You leave nothing upright, even forest maps. Changes their content and substantially legalises any illegal change in use and trespassing of forest land until 1975 and any building permit until 2011. The prediction of changing the composition of committees addressing the objections of forest maps turns specialist scientists into a minority, and this facilitates declassification to the detriment of state forest property. Also, for residential densities, the alleged compliance with a specific decision of the Council of State reveals the attempt to circumvent it by the government, similar to that which the SYRIZA government did not have to complete under another procedure, which will still be judged as unconstitutional. Urban governments, of course, feared the political cost of revising Article 24 in the Constitution, and the vague concept of unity is legalising violations, illegal individual or collective building, mainly in state forest ecosystems. It is unacceptable to seek a generalized temporary exclusion of arbitrary demolitions built up until 2011. Actually, he's putting thousands of families into hostages. Also, in the big waste management issue, measures are taken exclusively for the needs of business groups. For the operation of HYTAFs, ‘Illustration’ means the transfer of Attica waste to the Graphic. As far as the temporary operation of waste transhipment stations is concerned, you are legalising illegality. People are up. Authentic, dictatorial and unconditional, with a one-console, twenty-five positions are adopted for temporary operation of waste transhipment stations. Impaired installations, without approved environmental conditions, are most, occasionally altered or permanently in outbreaks of pollution. In fact, they are also being developed within residential areas, as in Perama. There, the mayor toured the Mayor's Mayor, Mr. Tsipras, and there today the inhabitants are demonstrating, because there will not be enough of the "cassettes of death", but next to the 1st high there will also be a focal point. We are also tabling a communication from the actors on crime against children. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Manolaku, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Also, with regard to the campaign of years to households for separate packaging collection in blue cans, most of them will now be collected with biowaste, i.e. coffee bin. The failed, although highly advertised by SYRIZA, blue bunker system will be dismantled to win by its competitor. They are the recycling houses, the American construction and the origins, which the government is zealously promoting, since the American ambassador has made progress with the American factory construction colossus. As waste is ‘coloured’, special permits are promoted for the total assignment of the collection of waste to the private sector. For the management of solid waste on the islands, especially in the Ionian and southern Aegean, the PFOs are being abolished and specific regional anonymous companies are being created, and that is why there are many protests in both regions. Of course, you withdrew Rule 99 that stirred a storm of reactions. Don't bring it back. It is not only that you cultivate and will grow everywhere great hotels. Scandal, too, is what is happening in Mount Aigaleo in Zone A of absolute protection. Illegally, HYTA has been spaced and operated by all governments, it erroneouss the absolute protection status of the hill, where the HYTA and the Syriza of Race have been methodized, of course, by SYRIZA with the Douru District Director. And let him protest outside with environmental organisations. Now, of course, this is still the Patolis of the New Democracy. He took the spoon and proceeds to the new dump. Although Zone A of absolute protection, which only provides recreational stand, bear a provision allowing exceptionally and using existing training buildings. I mean, the things that exist illegally. Photographic layout. Don't bring it back. Of course, you're doing the same with photographic articles on the Chalkidiki Skouria. They have the free pollution to the detriment of the inhabitants and the region. Otherwise, put a clearer on the former FME to rob debts approved by courts at the expense of the workers. You, however, represent the pro-environmental government, highlighting the frustration of western Macedonia and Megalopolis, as SYRIZA did, destroying domestic cheap sources of energy. You are projecting - and you have told us a lot about the Fair Transition Fund - that people will be saved. You are hypocritical, because this is a round of subsidies to business groups and any compensatory measures in no way will they make up for the huge losses that workers will suffer in these areas. And the jobs, whatever they are made, will be 'older'. You and the previous ones have guaranteed it by laws, with rampant wages and rights. That's why it's reactionary, anti-liberal, anti-environmental the monstrous bill. It is contrary to the people's right to recreation and living in a quality environment, against the right to make use of cheap energy sources. Why? Because they fund all this in the face of the capitalists' profits. That is why we are voting against and above all against leaving it on paper. With popular, strong, mass struggles they can do it and we will be with them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u156	Thank you for the time too. Mr. Vassiliardos, from the Greek Solution, has the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the debate prior to the unconstitutionalism of Articles 44, 48, 92 and, if I understood correctly, 99 was withdrawn - I would like to ask here whether or not any part of it has been withdrawn - colleagues have referred to the substance of the articles, which we, of course, consider to be unconstitutional, as we have said, but not the only ones. I shall therefore refer here to the specific articles at the beginning of my speech, so that there is no gap, noting that it is also unacceptable to Article 116 for the abolition of HEME. Article 44 states, inter alia, that mining activities will be permitted within habitat and species management zones, i.e. areas mapped as part of the European ecological network of NATURA 2000, host natural habitat types and habitat types which are important at European level and which must be protected by all Member States. This is, rather, a photographic provision attempting to legalise the environmental crimes of "ELLENIKIKI FRYSOS S.A." With regard to Article 48, the whole of the national problem, the suspension and ratification of forest maps with great difficulty, because they look at individual cases rather than the whole problem, since the arrangements do not include the real situation of the many settlements throughout the territory, with established and approved limits, on the basis of public administration's actions, such as the previous 1923 settlements. In particular, the current and proposed legal frameworks will lead to the following legislative steps, which the Government must pay particular attention to: First, an obligation to reimburse the European funds allocated for the construction of infrastructure projects in urban areas retrospectively declared forest and therefore not justified urban infrastructure. Secondly, claims for compensation by the owners from the administration of many billion euros, which will be borne by the Greek State and thus all of us. Thirdly, the burden of thousands of appeals and owners in justice. Fourthly, tensions in society, due to the erosion of the law and the erosion of the law, because this legal framework brings about retrospective differences in similar property with photographic, but also vague provisions. It thus brings about the complete confusion between owners, particularly among the joint owners of real estate which have only partly been structured. And fifthly, the need to issue dozens of interpretative circulars to local construction services and the overriding services on unclear and often conflicting law. Finally, with regard to Article 92, the municipal waste transhipment stations cannot be of a temporary nature. They should follow the normal procedures for permanent authorisation and establish legally their ownership status, in order to avoid future conflicts and tensions by the public, because Greece has no permanent status. I shall not refer to Rule 99. I'll just wait to hear if he's retired. We will now start the suggestion from last Friday's economy debate, where we were not informed about the economy alone by the Prime Minister. We waited, at least, for the following questions to be answered: Firstly, how much exactly are the budgetary measures to be charged with the deficit, so public debt? Here we have heard various numbers, from 6.8 billion on behalf of the Minister of Finance, up to 14 billion from the Prime Minister and lately, from 8 to 10 billion euros, which we consider to be voluntarily unacceptable. The government is obliged to inform us of the exact figures, especially the tragic situation that has led Greece, with the fall of the growth rate to 1% already since the fourth quarter of 2019, compared with 2.3% previously, with the tripling of the cash deficit in the first quarter of 2020, in other words, a krone, and all the rest. Secondly, how much are the cash measures, at least what has been budgeted so far and how much do state guarantees? Thirdly, where will all this money be shared, if they eventually share, since we do not believe in'money', in other words, in the knowledge of Mr Papandreou who led us to the IMF? Fourthly, how much money will we rely on the European Union without their obligation to return? How much will the NSRF make available and how much guarantees will we finally receive from the European Union? Neither were the government's estimates of recession, unemployment, deficits and so on, while we were informed by the media that forecasts were submitted to the European Union, including a downturn in 4.7% of GDP, unemployment at 19.9% of the labour force and a decline in gross fixed capital formation by 4.6%, which should confirm it to us. From these pitiful to disastrous forecasts, which, on the basis of the measures taken, will be much worse, there seems to be a clear need to table an extraordinary budget, which the President of IOBE also pointed out, while the government is pretending not to listen to it. So we are waiting immediately for a new budget, before the twenty-six bills announced by the Prime Minister until the end of July, telling him that 'not much of it, but much of it'. Also, if our growth and prosperity depended on the bills, then all countries would have done it very easily. We expect a budget which must finally be drawn up as if the German Government had been appointed to change our mistaken economic model, which leads us to bankruptcy again, with the rise in the share of primary production, processing and industry in our GDP so that our economy does not depend almost exclusively on tourism. We do not want to turn ourselves and our children into the cheap wardrobes of Germany, into a multicultural colony of its debt, flooded with illegal immigrants, with our only job to serve the Germans, who will come on holiday with their own companies and their own planes, landing in their own airports, staying at their own hotels, which will have their own OTE and their own PPC, while shopping from their own supermarkets, such as Lidl, their own imported products. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] If that is the vision of the government, then it is certainly not ours, nor of the other Greeks, as we know very well. The Greek Solution believes in the free market but not in the unconscious, without any social person, it believes in privatisation, but not in public-private enterprises such as PPC, networks and water, nor, of course, strategic businesses. The Greek Solution believes in the European Union but not in its current, German version, nor in the use of the euro as a weapon of economic invasion and occupation of the countries of Europe, starting from the south. The Greek Solution believes in the need for intervention of the state in times of crisis, but supporting production primarily and consumption secondaryly. However, it also believes that the state must leave immediately after the end of the crisis, without this implying that it is incapable of administering those companies that must be owned, so that it does not end up being blackmailed by individuals. Certainly the Greek Solution does not believe in the German memoirs, having documented several times that they are worse than the coronary for the economy. As far as illegal immigration is concerned, it has the same strict positions as socialist Denmark, much more since the violent settlement of our islands in the framework of the hybrid war which Turkey is conducting against us is taking place through illegal immigrants. The government cannot understand how the alteration of our society is promoted through illegal immigrants and that our defence is weakened on the remote islands and inland areas, where it is transporting them at our own cost. It cannot understand how crimes of all kinds, such as those of Sweden, Belgium or the Netherlands, will increase sharply, or that it is not possible for a bankrupt country to support illegal people when its own children are forced to leave abroad, depriving our country of any prospect of sustainable development. It is not just irresponsible and unacceptable, but literally criminal. Unresponsible, unacceptable and criminal! Finally, the Greek Solution believes in limiting globalisation and abolishing the Moroccan Agreement, while at national level it is contrary to Macedonia's betrayal, where we have tabled a request for a committee of inquiry - since no one else does so - and also with the repressive policy towards Turkey, considering that precisely this slavery attitude, which we do not deserve as Greeks, will lead us to war. We will eventually be brought to war if we continue with the same soothing policy! With regard to today's bill, now, which we will certainly vote against, it is clear from all the bills tabled by Mr Hatzidakis on energy and on the environment that he has personally taken over the sales and environmental destruction of our country for the benefit of private people, but above all of foreign interests. It does not explain that it has targeted all the networks of Greece, which must of course never be sold out, PPC, through liberation, ELPE, TEN, IPTO and so on, nor that it promotes the installation of wind turbines in NATURA areas, knowing the serious consequences for our health, as well as for the animal and plant environment. On the other hand, because he participated in the governments of the New Democracy, the results of their actions for the future of the Greeks are well known to us: the overcharge of 2009, the irresponsible early elections then in the midst of the financial crisis, the bankruptcy of 2012 with the signature of the PSI for the rescue of German and French banks, the mortgage on our public property and the loss of our national sovereignty. The ultimate chaos! Why, really, have something changed today, how much more so when New Democracy is ruling on the continual invocation of SYRIZA's failures and betrayals in its promises and ideology? In the committees, we have referred to many articles, and we will submit our views on all of them in the Minutes, since there is not enough time to analyse them. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Viliardos, presents for the Minutes the relevant documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With reference to the chapters, however, I would like to say the following: Chapter I: It violates existing and European environmental protection legislation with the ultimate aim of authorising establishments in protected areas such as NATURA. It shall simplify all procedures for approval of environmental studies in the name of speeding up authorisations for establishment and operation of undertakings with heavy production procedures in respect of environmental protection. Finally, the State's control mechanisms for the protection of the environment by ‘certified’ private individuals are substituted, without transparency, and without their proven experience and solvency for such a sensitive sector as the environment. Chapter II: The conditions for the bridging of power generation by PPC lignite plants are accelerated without a national plan for transition to the post-lining era, since it is not claimed that they will be extended for after 2038, as other European Union countries have achieved. The wind parks are clearly being promoted at the expense of our national fuel - the cheap lignite, that is, while at the same time, foreign interests are being served in the name of supposedly green growth, at a cost that is inconsistent with the Greek citizen who will pay again the bill. They continue, by way of derogation from the public tender laws, to conclude energy contracts with direct awards to various providers in the name of speeding up a country's supposed modern energy development model. Chapters III and IV: With regard to protected areas, their exploitation and problematic management by committees that can award studies, as well as programme contracts with participation and NGOs is promoted. Chapter V and F: With regard to forest maps and agglomerations, their ratification and suspension, which are a major, chronic national problem, are dealt with in the bill fragmented and unbelievable handshake. The reason for this is that individual cases and not a whole problem are being examined, since the arrangements do not include the real situation of the many, throughout the territory, settlements with shaped and approved limits on the basis of public administration acts. Chapter G: With regard to the energy efficiency of the buildings of the country, this draft law continues not to resolve the problem of the dubious quality of the buildings' energy certificates, since it is known that they are carried out by non-certified energy inspectors by way of derogation from the Community directives, and it is uncertain whether the technical specifications are realistic from an economic point of view. Chapter VIII and I: In relation to the ratification of the Community Directive 2019/692 and the register, we do not have much to say, since this is a European obligation, whereas the provisions of the register appear to be largely procedural. Chapter I: Waste management is managed by simple extensions of operation of illegal landfills despite the fines imposed by the European Union. We do not see any plan for the recovery of organic waste for the construction of power plants such as biogas, something new, that is, that Greece needs. At the same time, there are secretly initiated without consultation of twenty-three transhipment points, namely small landfills - twenty-two in Attica and one in Argolida - of which at least some seem to be extremely problematic. In addition, facilities for green waste collection sites are being launched, without prior urban planning, and the local authorities are able to re-introduce their equipment as far as they are concerned. Finally, in Chapter IA, from the long list of amendments, we see the possibility of further sale of IPTO in Article 115, even worse in a bad situation such as the current situation on the capital markets. Of course we do not agree, since the networks are extremely valuable and should never be sold out, as in the past, TECF. The responsible State Secretary, of course, told us that the sale is compulsory because of the unacceptable agreement with the Chinese, who bought only 24%, but in a way that prevents any decision and despite the fact that the state owns 51%! In other words, out of nine members of the board of directors, the State only has two. It's a SYRIZA criminal agreement, really unique in history! Obviously, it did not convince us, because it plans to sell the TEDEN to which the same things are not happening. While SYRIZA is not legitimate about saying anything at all, it has not only sold 24% of IPTO with this unacceptable agreement, but also the DESFA network, profitable airports and so much more. Whoever does not see, then, that these two parties are cooperating with each other as they pretend to be rivals to be citizens, both together and serving foreign interests together - is simply blind. In the same chapter, PPC is now further weakened through the transitional mechanism for compensation for flexibility in Article 129. Finally, with regard to Article 119, which may be the case, it may create very dangerous situations. It's clearly challenging. I shall refer to the articles in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. I would like to inform you that immediately afterwards, Mr Koutsoubas is from Merra25 and Mr Koutsoubas will be followed by Mr Koutsoubas, who has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President. Members and MPs, Minister, I really am here to ask you to withdraw this bill. I'm going to ask you to document it and hopefully I'm talking to a man open to reviewing his opinion. The vote on the motions for resolutions will be taken at 12.30 p.m. And they'll come out here at 18:00 and in all the cities of Greece they'll tell us themselves. What for? This bill provides for mining in the NATURA and in the protected areas. What he originally proposed was that mining even in the nuclei in the absolute protection zones should be carried out. He first retired. The Minister said it was by mistake. The III and IV zones where mining is permitted are now left. And the organisations involved in the consultation, in dialogue with the government every two months, told us at the hearing that they were concerned that there would be no design of zones I and II, namely zones that would not be extracted in the forty protected areas, in which SYRIZA and New Democracy landed for multinational oil. Minister, I have asked you to commit that - it is an absurd fear - that there will be no protected area without an absolute protection zone, even if it is within NATURA, within the lands that you have given the extractives. You say that in the European Union too they do mining in 'NATURA'. Today I heard you and changed the argument. You say that SYRIZA also made mining at "NATURA". It's real, really. And SYRIZA has granted too many NATURA areas for mining. It is right that you change the argument, because in the European Union, in too many countries, mining has stopped or are on complete withdrawal. We discussed this very closely in the last debate. France, Spain, Portugal, Denmark and Ireland have either announced a moratorium or are in the process of withdrawal even in mining authorised. But that's not all. The Committee on Nature 2000, an official body of the state - and we have asked it with a timely question in this House - calls for no mining to take place in the NATURA and in the protected areas. That is why the organisations are asking that you withdraw this article with mining in the protected areas at all. Mining is not a mild growth. It's not mild the impact that an accident can have on a platform. It will completely destroy the whole environment in the protected area, its object being to protect the environment. That's why it's a protected area. As for hunting in wildlife shelters, you withdrew it after my complaint as Mera25. We congratulate you on being open to do that. But here again, bring the hunt with the use of garrisons. It's shocking. Think: Do we create a market for wildlife - where wildlife is illegal internationally - to be used after these hawks and other activities? You're saying they're coming from legal grey farms. In the country where we have such a big problem with the illegal trade in wildlife, in particular, ornithony, which we have the Schhistos bazaars, which we have in passing been imprisoned by birds illegally acquired - were there only six thousand birds last year, which were given to organisations for their protection - will we also give the motive to hunters to target the hawks? It's the only species that hasn't been targeted. And have we here the collapse of the old age population and the collapse of the ecological equilibrium that they bring? How many kinds of life will eject beyond their equilibrium, creating problems when the main predators who are the hawks leave? You say that they have supported environmental organisations. You will have read - I imagine - the statement - catapult the ornithological. Also, if you refer to environmental organisations, they - I imagine - will also ask for the withdrawal of the bill. So I ask you to consider the opinion of the organisations and to withdraw a bill. As far as the abolition of management bodies is concerned, you are setting up a central body, which you say will bring coordination. I can hear it with care. You say that was a request you had heard from many bodies, that we need better coordination. But you are setting up a central body where even the opinions will be decided by a director. We don't have a better coordination here. Here we have a very simple concentration in Athens, in a director, of the right to object to any project that may disturb the state from where we had all the management bodies. And, yes, we were being asked and, as the workers have also complained, requests which were disturbing, negative opinions that prevented projects that were being promoted by the governments and not only by your own. As far as mineral waste disposal sites are concerned, without authorisation, we know what had been done in Baia Mare, Romania. A very bad construction with an extraordinary weather phenomenon led to a flooding, an ecological disaster in the Danube with terrible repercussions on the people of the region. That is why we are now very careful about all mining and especially gold. And yet, here, this provision has been denounced as photographic for the Squirrels. And why has he been denounced? Because we know that the problems faced by the Greek FRYS lately, the most recent complaints in Skouria, were for the mining sites, which, with the recent floods, had many problems. In the area of Kokkinolakos it is located above the village of Great Panagia and a flood will mean that the inhabitants bathe and flood the village with toxic waste. You're telling us, but SYRIZA had set five mining works to be exempted from permits. When will you use SYRIZA as an excuse for your own actions? You are now government for almost a year. We have to stop this. Five-year extension of environmental licensing. And here it is reported that this is a photographic provision for Skouria and other activities. But, Minister, every eight years the European Commission issues reference documents for available techniques. It is compulsory to adapt environmental authorisations on the basis of these techniques presented by the documents. How will you keep an environmental license for more than fifteen years? In other words, you will lose in some cases and three compulsory revisions. I asked you about it and I didn't get an answer. I asked you again, too, in the committee specifically about Skouria, which they denounce this provision to be photographic. We now have the decision by the Council of State which says that flash smelting is impossible to apply in the case of Skouries. And yet, this is the basis, this technology on which environmental licensing is based in Skouria. How will you renew, then, will you extend the environment on the basis of this horizontal exception created? Will you extend this environmental license which, on the basis of the decision of the Council of State, should lead you to demand compensation for the Skouria, compensation from the “ELELANDNIKI CRYS”? And you will be prolonging what is the authorisation that the Council of State has actually abolished? How's that thing? And I guess it's not just Squirrels. There are too many other environmentally destructive activities to extend their permits. It is also prohibited for municipalities to refuse to pass for hydrocarbon research. You say there are no consequences. And yet, the inhabitants of Ioannina and Thesprotia say that from these surveys, which you describe as totally harmless of hydrocarbons, there is partial deforestation of forests and vegetation in a zone of five hundred kilometres, eleven thousand five hundred small and medium-sized eruptions and two hundred nineteen heliports for refuelling and helicopters covering at least one acre. Is that the least effect? So, what would the huge impact, the mining itself? You're telling us that hydrocarbons have ended because of coronary, and anyway, it's okay that you're taking these mining measures. They will, if they do, you say, very deep in the future. Then why all these provisions for mining in particular? One point which I have put to you in the committee is the practical postponement of the forest maps. You're saying the maps aren't going to be postponed, but you're going to speed them up. Let's take a look at your argument. The PEDY, the public forestists complain that you are changing the specification of the forest maps, so it will need to be posted again. That is the complaint they are making and all the parties to the opposition. You are also using the OPEKEPE background, and here I brought you to the committee and my experience, as a farmer and a bio-farmer, that these maps, this background that you want to create, are completely unreliable. Anyone who has ever requested, has ever received subsidies for his own cultivation will have seen that when one goes to declare the fields cultivated by another has declared this background. These limits, the limits declared by the fields are in about, are according to the same statement. You bring topographics, but the drawing itself states it is not topographical. These backgrounds are so perforated. Are you going to use these for the future forest maps you want to make? And I call, indeed, on the citizens who have a field and have not asked for subsidies to go to the OPECE who declares their fields. Are we going to use this background? That way, by suspending the forest maps, we don't close the eye and, Minister, you don't close the eye on the trespassers and arsonists? Because forest maps are of fundamental importance precisely because once we have forest maps stop the arsonist's motive, it stops the motivating of the trespasser. The arson stops, so only the fires are left with negligence. But if we end with arsons, we have saved lives, property and, of course, the environment. This is unfortunately not the case with this provision of yours. Now that you're right, it's about the objections to forest maps. Indeed, it is a huge problem and they have been delayed too much. But the problem here is subsecution. The hearing has shown that the forest services are under-represented to an enormous extent and that is why the objections are being raised. If you want to speed up the objections, you need to serve the forest services. Here you want to solve the problem by bringing in other jobs. How will a non-teacher consider the forest character of a region? Really, a non-teacher how he decides whether an area is forest or not? In waste, you legalise the waste transhipment stations, which are basically illegal. You have been told by previous speakers. They are used by municipalities illegally to reduce the volume of garbage and to reduce transport costs. But I asked you again, and I ask you: this compressed mixed garbage how will you then use it at the sorting plants you have announced yourself? It's impossible. How is this consistent with your policy on the circular economy? It's incompatible. That is why we invite you to withdraw this article as well. You are also transferring decisions on the management of waste from the region to the Ministry. You do not want social control here in practice. You want in practice to make it easier for regional managers to make decisions on the placement of the waste disposal sites, the CVTs and the CVTs, I hope CVTs. This is also photographic for the Race, as I have reported to you. After the reactions to Mrs Dourou, which last night was the Regional Administrator of Attica, she hid the extension of the Gypsy and, to the extent and extent of other areas, this proposal - supported by Mr Patulis and with Mrs Dourou - you actually want to present it to Mr Patulis. This denounces the West Front. And the West Front is right. I fear it is a photographic provision for Mr Patulis. As far as the issue of Axis, Olympus and Pambotidas in practice are concerned, they are huge habitats. Apparently it's worthy, but Olympus - I imagine we all agree - is a global cultural asset. And we're seeing that it's going away. The protection decree is in the last part of the process, and here you are abolishing the very subject of the decree. So, in fact, if there's no transitional arrangement, they stay unprotected. That is why I call on you to adjust that, if that is not the case, 'photographics'. For licensing: how to make licensing faster, when we have 30% to 50% subscribed to the licensing service? How can these fewer people accomplish the license work more quickly? You, instead of supporting the public, wanted to privatise the licensing process. Finally, you did back after the outcry and you bring a hybrid shape, like a PPP, about. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I would like a little more time, Mr President, as did previous colleagues. Now you want in this shape, at least this time, the independent private-evaluator to be paid by the public and also not the company will choose him, but will be chosen by lottery. These are important changes. However, the result of this private evaluator should be judged by the agency in twenty days' time. In twenty days it must be passed by the official or the official responsible, by the Head, the Director or the Director, and the Secretary-General, Minister and political leadership. That's impossible. But you know what? You've set it up so that there's no problem. If we don't make it, the Secretary-General will always sign it. In fact, you want to avoid the negative decisions which do not suit you, do not serve investments that you have decided politically, not scientifically, that you will be promoting. This is substantiated by this, Minister. With regard to the sale of IPTO, unfortunately, the work of the SYRIZA Government as well continues for the sale of the networks. We invite you to stop, because these networks are development tools. It's not just jobs, it's not just the public interest. They're development tools. The next governments will not have the tools for development for this country. As far as RES is concerned, you were presented at the hearing at the University of Ioannina, which substantiates that we can achieve the RES objectives without an installation at NATURA. I have submitted this study to you, and I invite you to consider it and to change the predictions of both this draft law and the spatial planning of the RES. On employment issues, I also invite you again to commit what will happen to the three hundred and forty-nine workers, workers in management bodies, people to whom, if you like, the government and the state have invested 15 years now. They've acquired a specialty. They are environmental scientists most of the biologists and biologists, who are short-lived by the Ministry, mostly with engineers. We need them. They perform and serve permanent needs and must have a permanent position. My opinion is that management bodies should not be abolished, but if you move forward, at least permanently. Don't lose that public property, which is the three hundred and forty-nine people. You told us that you were saving the islands by converting FITH to anonymous corporations. You told us: go to the islanders and ask them to withdraw the bill, see what they will tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u160	Mr. Colleague, you have spoken twenty-one minutes. You've got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u161	I'm closing, Mr. President, right away. The result is that the Mayors of Tinos, Syros, Mykonos, Andros, Naxos, Paros, Kimolos, and Thera seek the withdrawal, as well as Kos and Leros. As far as anti-constitutionalism is concerned, we also believe that Articles 51 to 55 are also unconstitutional, which provide for SYRIZA's invention of the settlements in practice, and we are also calling for them to be withdrawn. You'll allow me to be a little ironic in this. We didn't find a provision for the Greek, Minister, in this bill. It is the first bill that has no "photographic" provision for the Greek. I don't know if he's coming with an amendment. We saw about the Squirrels, we saw about mining. The Greek provision is missing in this bill. In conclusion, I would like to say that this afternoon there are protest gatherings across Greece: in Athens outside the Parliament, in Thessaloniki at the White Tower, in Volos at Papastrateio, in Grevena in Eleftheria Square, in Heraklion in Lentaria, in Karditsa in the central square, in Corfu in Liston, in Trikala square in Riga Ferraio, in Halkida in the Strongylo beach, in Chania in the Market Square. I call on you, like the Citizens' Counselor, like all citizens and organisations, to stand up to the circumstances and to do the only decent thing, Minister: to withdraw this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u162	Thank you. The President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas, has the floor now, followed by Mrs Bakoyannis. Immediately after that, the former President of Parliament, Mr. Voutsis, then Mr. Apostolos, Mr. Stamenitis, Mr. Kegeroglou, will speak in his place, and immediately after that, Parliamentary spokesman Mr. Claus Gregoriadis, has asked for the floor. Mr. Hetas will also speak after Mr. Charakopoulos. Minister, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u163	I shall speak at some point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u164	Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, since today we have been in a new phase, in a phase that experts and scientists have confirmed, it is just as difficult and certainly more complex, more demanding than the previous quarantine period. And at this stage state responsibility will no longer be able to hide behind the discipline and determination of the citizens. It is essential to ensure the protection of workers in the workplace, in the means of transport, in pupils and in teachers in schools. It is urgent that mass diagnostic tests be carried out, that there is a supply in masks free of charge, that the time taken to actually support the public health system should be used, especially when everyone anticipates a possible second pandemic wave from the autumn. And, of course, to support workers, the unemployed, the people who are not registered anywhere, who are under the radar, as we have said before, so that they do not have any income at all. In this category, for example, people of culture, art workers, who have raised a voice of protest for days. All this needs to be done now and with the responsibility of the state. Instead of taking this seriously, however, you have found the opportunity on the occasion of the pandemic to pass any reactionary, anti-grassroots measure after ten years of crisis and memorials. You have found the opportunity to implement the ten orders of BSE, proposals that have been nurtured for years and which we all know now. And you think now you've found the moment to go through them in the mosquito, taking advantage of the leftover of the House. Among these measures is today's environmentally sound bill, which comes to scan what was left standing before governments. It is no exaggeration to say that this so-called environmental bill was written by the industrialists themselves a year ago. The BSE itself, for example, a year ago in its newsletter, was actually suggesting to the Government what to do about the environment, asking for a faster environmental licence for more investment. SYRIZA did not have time, because the elections had taken place, and the New Democracy was quick to implement. Why should this bill be debated and voted on now? Why would he have to go through a pandemic? In our view, it is well known: it is simply because no one agrees with this bill, because it has been convicted by organisations, by environmental protection bodies. So, what more convenient to pass this bill at a time when our people's main attention is objectively directed elsewhere? So the bill you bring for a vote in the House is a bill that all environmental organizations call it an environmental armageddon. And you bring it to the mosquito, in such a way that the reactions of the Greek people, especially the Greek youth, can be reduced. Do you have the courage to baptize 'environmental protection' the degrading of the concept of environmental licensing with the express permits of all kinds to be awarded to private individuals, the thousands of new wind turbines on each mountain peak and the tens of thousands of photovoltaic parks you fill the country, the abolition within a night of the status of protection of high environmental value areas for the country with the funny but at the same time a cynical argument that comes directly from BSE, 'what do you want to do? We have many such areas in Greece." You are even mocking - independent justice - when you bring the settlements back from the back door, a few months after the decision of the Council of State rejecting them. You smuggled the very concept of forest and related science, since they will no longer be state forestists responsible for examining what is forest, but local engineers and lawyers who conclude contracts and build in the forest, who supposedly have to protect otherwise, proving, of course, that science is only good when it suits us. You are turning the whole country into a vast oil-seeking construction site, writing in the oldest of your shoes any objection to local societies, in fact with falsifications and often funny arguments from your ministers that it is nothing of the sort. You give a series of gifts to various businessmen with all kinds of photographic provisions. Well, we are used to this, of course, the practice of all of you is well known and of course you are also giving the high-ranking staff, such as the members of the board of directors of this super-institution - who are preparing a wage - a challenge of EUR 8 000, while our people are suffering. The dirty work, apparently, needs to be paid badly. The debate that a further deeper crisis is ahead of the gates has eroded among all the workers who understand who once again will pay for sadness. And while the consequences for the Greek economy are even greater, which is why you cannot hide due to the monoculture of tourism, you will bring - you will say - a provision - a stumbling block - withdrawing it from today, but you will take it to the bill of the Ministry of Culture - which also turns the center of Athens into a tourist zone of many hundred beds. We didn't expect, of course, that the pandemic would give you brains. Some of you - unfortunately - are using it only for the terrorism of the world, for you to call it inconvenient, unspeakable, unspeakable, by charging him and by individual - supposedly - responsibilities he does not have, even though he observes all the necessary protection measures, which not all of you do. The draft law you bring is a plan that sacrifices the needs of workers and the people in order to ensure the profits of some major businesses. And some cannot fall from the clouds, such as SYRIZA, for example, either with the contents of the bill or with the drunkenness, because the way in which we bring the bill to the mosquito is well known. You have been there for five years now, gentlemen of SYRIZA. As for Mr Hatzidakis' allegations that the bill was in consultation for a long time, the least we can say is that it is a challenge, not only because almost half of the bill was not in consultation, but also because the consultation told him practically 'take it back!' The contents, too, of the draft law does not surprise anyone of any kind, because the new licensing framework essentially completes the 2011 framework, which SYRIZA maintained, despite its alleged protests at the time. And the changes that New Democracy brings today are all at the request of the BSE, which is as if he wrote both the licenses and the others, "take what you want, investor!" Really, this grand argument of comparing the environment in Greece to other countries where the good found it? Is that a argument? In other words, a little - very much - you tell us that we have a lot of forest in Greece, so let us destroy it, we have many NATURA regions, so let us break them down. Accelerating the licensing of renewable energy sources, too, cannot surprise anyone who now appears to be defending the unwritten ones. The targets for further penetration of renewable energy sources into the energy mix, for which you have been operating with SYRIZA - before the elections, of course - how else can we be achieved rather than with thousands of new wind turbines and photovoltaics? The concession contracts for hydrocarbon research, for which you have thrown a lot of trouble in Parliament with the now opposition to whom they really need to be credited, what else can only mean tens of thousands of kilometres of roads to take measurements, thousands of drillings and then, if oil is found, a huge environmental disaster? The environment is dispersed to invest in industries. Renewables will embrace all the mountains and the current will become expensive. Nature conservation areas will be exploited. The beaches will become courtyards of large hotel complexes. The oil groups will fill the rest of the country with drilling. The environment is there to make profits for large businesses and savers of investors in each sector. So the truth is, you don't do anything that new. Further promote the legal framework needed by your own capitalist development, a framework that literally shatters the needs of the whole country. Your capitalist development requires that we dismantle the environment and sacrifice people's rights, pay high-priced power to win the groups of renewable energy that will set up on every mountain, accept that companies do not need permission because they regulate themselves and protect the environment - it says - by themselves, we accept that in order to make billions of profits for oil mining groups we must pierce the whole country. As for the so-called 'green' development, which you all promote, it turns out that only green is not, it is black. It is the development that in the name of environmental protection alone promotes the strategy of specific lobbies. Really, you are so in favour of clean energy, why don't you invest in hydroelectric power that is the most environmentally friendly? So we're talking about this capitalist development. However, development based on capitalist gain on the one hand and real environmental protection on the other hand are things that are incompatible. The only thing you're seeking is to form new investment fields for the group's overcompensated funds. This, of course, is the strategy of the strengths of the European Union, which, on the pretext of protecting the environment, are trying to upgrade their position in the energy war. Throughout the world, from the United States to Germany and France, a large part of the capital supports this solution that you too, the most famous "Green New Deal", the major investment project to replace the old infrastructure with new "green" infrastructure. However, new infrastructure costs and green infrastructure costs even more. For example, the new 'green' energy infrastructure is translated into expensive electricity. It means less heating, accurate new facilities. And, of course, green growth has been won and lost. Winners are basically investors in the new 'green' technologies that will see billions of profits entering their pockets. But losers are workers, as will happen, for example, to workers in the energy sector who know a great deal about their exploitation. Lost, of course, will also be the people's family who will pay expensively for electricity. It is also a waste of capital, businessmen, who have invested in older technologies, whose green solutions are destroying them. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mr President, I will be done in a moment. I won't be long. We're watching the SYRIZA that's been on the tiles for the environmental bill. Why is that? Is the strategy of so-called 'green' development not its own strategy too? The largest ecological crime in Attica, which has been the landfill in Liosia for decades, which you have even extended and want to copy elsewhere, as in the Graphics, has no longer been the seal of SYRIZA? Does the carcinogen burning with the known effects on Volos, but also elsewhere, not have the signature of SYRIZA? And because we also saw a video of Ms. Durou with birds and fans, it would be better to make a video to tell the people of Attica what she decided behind her back last summer with Patolis and the well-known fastite, Jamer. We refer to the new dump, which is illegal, because it is in an absolute protection zone and for which the elected KICs in local government have filed press reports on the Areo Ice. In fact, you all confess that this system does not fit the people's real needs. Leave what you know! This system you serve is neither a rational nor a one - way path. The environment can really be defended by the people themselves, but when they decide to get you out of governance and take the power by socialised means of production themselves, putting the economy under their own plan and control. Then he will really be able to satisfy his need to live in a human environment, to protect his health and his needs as a whole, to live with prosperity and not by meditation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u166	Thank you. Mrs Bakoyannis from New Democracy has the floor for nine minutes, and then the former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis. Here, Mrs. Bakoyannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u167	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot tell you that I am not pleased to see you all again after forty-five days of quarantine and that we are returning to normal in some way in the Greek Parliament. Because this is the first time I have spoken, let me also say a very big thank you, which has been heard too many times all the time in this country. Allow me to say a thank you to all those people who were at the forefront in this battle against the coronary, the doctors, the nurses, the injured, the people of cleanliness of the municipalities, the people of the 'Help to Home' programme, the police and all those who gave their own battle so that we can stay safe in our homes. Allow me to say a great thank you to the Greek people who responded and created a huge capital for this country, ladies and gentlemen, a huge capital of confidence and optimism, of confidence in the state, of its officials, of confidence in themselves and of course of confidence in tomorrow, which will undoubtedly be difficult - and I will agree with all those who said so before - and of risen. We are entering a new battle, the battle of the economy, without ending the battle to protect health. However, I believe that, with the confidence we have in ourselves and the solidarity and solidarity shown by the Greek people, we will also be able to achieve it in the second and very difficult battle. Before I get to the essence of the bill, I want to make two remarks. The first point, ladies and gentlemen, is that the political system has also come out of this adventure. And it came out strengthened because, in fact, it responded to the needs of times and showed maturity and seriousness in dealing with the virus. And that, at least, filled me with optimism. And it filled me with optimism for tomorrow. Because we have too many reasons to disagree in this Chamber and we have different political approaches and different ideology. But what we shouldn't have done is come back to his old logic yesterday. And, unfortunately, today in this Chamber hypocrisy has come to an end. I must say I didn't expect it. One will tell me that I should expect it after so many years in politics. I wasn't expecting it! I didn't expect this incredible hypocrisy. We have lost an hour and a half, ladies and gentlemen, this morning to discuss the way unconstitutionalism will be voted on. Mr President of the House, like all of us, we know how we operate in this House, how we operate in the Conference of Presidents, which, when six are gathered, the vote of the representative of the New Democracy is a majority in favour of the other five, because we had to operate in reasonable conditions and because there is the principle of declared. And it became an incredible, amazing trick. You were entitled to bring seven Members into this Chamber today and seven others tomorrow, so that there would be rotation and that there could be the speakers for the bill. And you brought all fourteen together this morning. And because you brought the fourteen and we kept the deal, you believed that when they get up, there will be more of them who will disagree with the bill than those who agree. Hey, it's cheap, ladies and gentlemen! It is cheap and worthless of the effort the Greek people have made all this time. It is an unnecessary hypocrisy, which you did not need, as the House does not need, those logics which, in my opinion, belong to the past. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm coming to the bill now. The New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, has demonstrated its own environmental sensitivity. And it is no coincidence that socialist Timermans calls Mr.Mitsotakis the “green” Prime Minister,” because he put his head on the torvah and proceeded deprivation much faster than any other country and progresses and runs. And it is no coincidence that the sensitivities of the New Democracy for the Environment have been recorded in various decisions and various legislative initiatives all this time. But from there on, we can't even blind ourselves. We cannot say that there is nothing wrong with the way in which the environment is protected, ladies and gentlemen. What's the truth? Is there anyone who disputes that in a European country you cannot take eight years to get permission to make an investment? There's one to get up and say it! - who can say "I am very pleased that in this country called Greece to make an investment, do you want six or eight years to get the environmental license"? Are we serious now? Is it ever possible to send this message? Checking, yeah. To have strict standards, yes. Get the government up and do his job, yeah. And make her right, strict, yeah. But give her permission or not give her permission? And, in any case, within a reasonable timeframe! Is it ever possible to discuss and say that this whole picture burns down the trash, get the mess on the islands, must it remain as it is? Is it possible that we do not want to act and interfere with that logic? This is where Corfu went to ruin last year, ladies and gentlemen! You've lived it. This logic of garbage from the time I was mayor of Athenians to the day I speak to you - and it has been many years, believe me - still lives and reigns. Don't you need any changes? Are we talking about transhipment stations? Are we talking about transhipment stations ten years now? And a solution to the issue has not been found. And the government comes and takes an initiative. We'll see if it works, and I'll be here to make the review if I have to. But you cannot ask a government to do absolutely nothing! Five convictions on SYRIZA! Five convictions thanks to the amazing sensitivity of SYRIZA's environment! Aren't we going to count them? Aren't we going to see them? Aren't we going to take them into account? The government comes in and takes the lead on the balls. Do you disagree, ladies and gentlemen? Do you disagree or do you agree? So tell us to hear it. Do you disagree that to get permission, you need to know where the balls are going? Aren't you tired of recording all the balls in the rivers of the country all this time?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u168	We agree not to have a loophole!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u169	Are we trying to find things we disagree with? We've got enough. But let us defend what is self-evident. Let us say that these are in the right direction. Let's get into such a logic. And yes, we want the green energy. Yes, it is true, we want it, because we know that any other action, unfortunately, is a burden on the environment too. And I tell you that, historically, in any case, I have enough battles and I have already lost too much to try to protect. And as I said just now - and I tell you publicly - in Crete, in Chania, we have the canyon of Samaria and there was a pioneering decision of my father, so that the canyon can be what it is. Today we need to protect Balos and the Lighthouse with strict, strict conditions. I am pleased, however, that the management body will be a body that can do its job. It will not be a paper-management body and with absolute help to deliver the work that must be done. We need a body to protect these treasures that we have in the environment, effective, that can take money from the European Union, who can invest in these areas, which will be able to truly and effectively protect the environment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Mr President, by saying this: this bill is a start. It's a tough bill. It has too many issues, which are open. On too many issues it has gone too far. I do not have the reaction you, ladies and gentlemen, to the centre of Athens. I think that, okay, the Minister withdrew this right so that he could give a specialty in the study. But in all the historical centers of all cities there are small hotel units. And there should also be an opportunity in Athens to create these wonderful neoclassicals, which we have left and devastate and burn, as the day before yesterday at the Stadium. So let's say things with their name. Let's see the reality. Let us not pretend we live in another country. In Greece we live well and know how all these decisions have worked in previous years and say that at least on some key issues we have the opportunity to agree. Mr President, as you can see, I am voting in favour of the bill and I am happy to vote for it because I believe it is an important step towards 'green' development, which at least we have put as a priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u170	Thank you. The former President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, has spoken for twelve minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u171	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, first of all to clarify what relates to the morning process and from the evolution of the procedure in the morning for the debate on the substance, it seemed manifestly unconstitutional that a number of articles in the bill are unconstitutionally unconstitutional, so it was a very useful procedure, which I believe has shown exactly the core of the effort being made by the government beyond the Constitution to legislate, with only a pretext and presumption of an extremely misconception of the reopening of the economy. I would also like to stress that, for our part - since there has never been a question of interrupting Parliament's work - it has come up very clearly that, if the country is relaunching the second phase we are in, the House should have set it up as an example by reopening it either in proportion to the summer departments or to the summer departments, as we now have May, that is, with a hundred Members instead of the sixty finally decided to operate properly. That was our place. Previously, I'm sure Mrs. Bakoyannis didn't know about this. That is why it has been mentioned, and that is why I have to say it. The democratic insistence on the part of the rapporteur and the parliamentary representative of the SYRIZA in order to make the procedure under the Rules of Procedure, because that was the only way to do it, that is to say, through the raising of Members, it obviously did not have the arithmetic criterion within it. In other words, it is always assumed by the rise of the MPs, on the basis of which parties the MPs are raised, that the majority is. Alas, if there was a vagina, as was said a moment ago - I am sorry - that there should be another majority in this way. It's not like that. On the contrary, it was wrong and it created the wrong precedent, bad precedent, for the future and for critical phases, if they came, finally the process followed. I would like to say to you - and to the New Democracy - when the House was decided to operate from now on with sixty Members, that does not mean that, depending on how many days it holds a bill, these Members are divided by two, by three and Mr. I'm saying it straight away. Well, you weren't thirty two - or how many people are counting on you - in the morning. There are other speakers, for example, that seven will be speaking today by SYRIZA and seven tomorrow and more by New Democracy or by other parties, and that in this House today we should be the sixty, as has been set! It was so arbitrary and rightly Mr Kaklamanis, who is very experienced as President, did not say so publicly but pointed it out to Mr Janakopoulos. I'm talking about this and I'm wasting my time. Mrs Bakoyannis obviously - I repeat - because she did not know this issue this morning said that the opposition wants to do an anti-democratic trick, namely that everyone was not entitled to come. Obviously, everyone was entitled to come from all parties. From New Democracy it was obviously not understood and half the people came. It would not change anything if we were really going with the steps of the democratic regulation on these things. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, they were indeed analysed by the representatives of counter-population, particularly by the Socialist Group, all the issues that have to do with a strict criticism and opposition to this environmentally sound bill, as has been mentioned. I do not want to repeat this, nor do I really want to repeat the novel, that, after so many months of consultation, a double bill came in, where in its first form, in half of the bill, but in its final form all forms of environmental organisations and authorities are against. The Citizens' Counsel is an independent authority and has a say on these issues, as is other authorities. They have made a series of in-depth and substantiated criticisms. I am also not talking about what is clearly or impliedly identified and detailed in relation to articles of the bill by the Scientific Committee of Parliament in a volume that has been given to us. I repeat that these were analysed, said, tabled and I am sure that they will be further documented by tomorrow in order to inspire the need to withdraw the bill. It is a question of the government to do this by tomorrow. I would like to put an additional aspect, very serious, in my view, on the basis of which the government should not have brought this bill in preparation and the objections it had today - not just today, perhaps for a longer period - to debate and to legislate in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, in the previous debate at the level of party leaders a few days ago, the Prime Minister with his first speech and his second speech on something was very clear, which was not even creative ambiguity, in'seeing and doing'. This, if you want, is an element in relation to the predictions, in relation to the enormous uncertainty that exists about the type of virus and the fellow sinners at all levels internationally, worldwide, in Europe, in Greece, about what it comes about, about what the consequences will be. But he didn't commit. Of course, on the same day - and this was a surprise - the government sent some calculations - it has its own - for 4.9% recession, for unemployment 19.9%, etc. The rapid time remains to look at European and international data and how this situation will balance in this second and third phases in relation to economic sizes. That is right, therefore, he also accepted, apparently, the challenge the Prime Minister has made twice as much as the Chief of Staff Representation has done that anything more than 4%, since he himself was associated with the basic prediction of the Governor of the Bank of Greece, will be something that will come from the economic policy that follows or that will be followed by the current government. We keep this next door. However, I am positive about taking advantage of the general uncertainty that has been put forward and which is reasonable in my mind. And it is no coincidence that all organisations are talking about percentages that are far from each other for the recession at international and European level, for the economic climate, etc. I would say, therefore, that we are all aware, ladies and gentlemen, of the fact that all of us in this House and all the political groups are clearly in this crisis and that we are in this crisis, and that depth, we must look into how, on the basis of standards, what values, which were considered to be essential to economic policy, to the productive model, to the relationship between man and nature, and to the dangers of further health crises, about the climate crisis, which a few months ago was the first issue to be discussed in Europe. I think everyone is already doing so, like some intellectual forums and political groups and states. This all creates a field of programmatic divergences, convergences, explorations. The investigations - I repeat - are mental and on the basis of data that humanity should see with a new eye, with a new perspective rather than at the basis of the stereotypes on which we have reached the crisis. It was what we were talking about how the country came to the crisis and bankruptcy so that we wouldn't go out after and follow the same models. I will not repeat what the Secretary of the JRC said earlier. Both the committees and the parties' rapporteurs, the rapporteur and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, in other words the objections, the rejections that existed both in October and in February. But now that we are all supposed to be looking at how this incredible, literally, admirable obsession with neoliberal dogmas and stereotypes can be justified, what must be the relationship between man and nature - we are talking about Greece - what should be the tourist product for Greece, what should be the chemistry and the mixture of our economy, to what extent? These are colossal issues which not all of us are now looking for, but obviously they also take their political positions, their political directions. For our part, a programme has been established and there is a great effort on the scale of Europe to bring about a substantial convergence with the forces of the Socialists and Greens who have raised these issues with these sensitivities beforehand. Don't you have to adjust? Don't you need a new perspective? It is not just 'green' deal and simply the actual version of a speech and the implementation of decisions of the previous conferences which Mr Trump has put into the trash. This was all put before the pandemic as requested. It was the corpus and the supply on the basis of which environmental organisations, NGOs, all objected to this bill, the permits, the way they were made. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] I will conclude in a minute, Mr President. Here are issues and questions raised from the outset on all issues relating to the quality of production model, what is the relationship with nature, what are the directions of a development initiative, what kind of tourism, what kind of life patterns, what kind of consumption, what kind of food, what is the role of the first production model? Where's that all going? It is as if you closed the string, closed a switch on the day the pandemic's risk began, before and after the lockdown, and you are now coming back in a hurry - it was also called an anti-democratic way of blackmailing this House in such a way - to bring back what? What did you say? What was the main element of the thought you submitted this morning, Minister? Relaunch the economy. So you say that all of this, which was the foundations of extreme neoliberalism, what BSE has been asking for in previous years and in conflict with the government of SYRIZA, if you would like, with the Greens and so on, must now be urgently in the crisis, before we try the second phase, to legislate because it is a one-way road to relaunch the Greek economy. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASIOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] With all of us, obviously, the distortions, the risks, the questions that accompany all of us, collectively and individually, about what it has done and how we are obliged to deal with the new major issues that are going through, which will obviously have overturned - and about mining and the energy mix and all that you mentioned this morning as funds and which are included in there, as well as about NATURA, the RES, the licenses and the role of the public - that is the central political problem. Ladies and gentlemen, I really felt the need, by fertilising the debate that has taken place so far, to put it directly, upright, because it shows that this 'we are seeing and doing' does not only have the feeling that the Prime Minister has - in my opinion rightly in this regard - that there is a strong uncertainty as to the sizes, but that it has to do with a obsession, incredible and unjustified, in establishments and in stereotypes that led up to this point and certainly does not respond to the new problems on which humanity must go but also to our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Apostleu is called to Step by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u173	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the government, having raised private investment and seen once again that they do not come, considers the delay in the environmental licensing process to be a hindrance. Instead of strengthening the competent services in both human and logistics, it chooses their depreciation on a pretext - listen to it, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy - to exempt them from the burden of procedures which do not offer anything essential to the protection of the environment. Therefore, the modernisation of environmental licensing can be implemented at the end of the deadline set for the relevant service, with opinions that do not consider essential some procedures to proceed in the next stages and, in particular, with full monitoring of environmental impact studies by certified assessors, who will be paid by the investors themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, good environmental authorisation is a guarantee of the sustainability of investment. Bypassing and depreciating the competent authorities is a great step backwards, let alone when the inconceivable dilemma is set: environment or development. In the same context of perception of environmental protection as an obstacle to investment, and the changes brought by the bill to protected areas, amending the categories and predetermining the permitted uses within protection zones, are being initiated. You understand that these interventions will create a huge risk to our natural heritage. And I come to the forest maps, ladies and gentlemen. The government of SYRIZA launched the forest maps not only because it was a requirement of the executive law of the 1975 Constitution, of Law 998/79, which explicitly stated that within the next ten years a land register should be drawn up, i.e. in 1989. It has been thirty years and we have not entered this procedure, I mean the training of the tariff. Our guide was the 1975 Constitution and, in particular, Article 24, which does not allow for changes in the use of forest land, except those which serve national needs and within them for greater reasons of public interest, has also incorporated agricultural activity, provided, however, individual viability is achieved. That is why we have also linked sustainability to the IACC declaration, namely the statement on aid to the common agricultural policy, so as not to lose one euro from social aid, but also to prevent the rural area from being used for deforestation and forest violations for other purposes. We proceeded with the implementation of this project by recording the nature, form and uses of these lands along with the promotion of the rights of the public, i.e. a path of at least a hundred years' time to deal with problems. That is why the first phase of registration in 50% of the country has brought many problems, such as forested fields, grassland, legal and illegal use change and arbitrary construction, to the surface. It was a matter of time, for example, in the wooded fields and grassland areas, to have a definitive solution. The question, however, now is what you are doing to solve these problems. I give one example: you call on the committees. Reinforce them. But what did you do? You have changed them by taking the position of the President from the forestist, who is actually the defender of the environmental issue to all these objections and all objections, giving him to another member of the committee. Those who listen to us understand. What you're finally doing is blowing up a job that's been done in the air. Do you realize that you are putting this intervention in jeopardy with Community aid? We have made a great effort as a country to persuade the European Commission to accept the wooden low vegetation in the areas eligible for pasture land, where the SYRIZA Government found close to one billion financial corrections, and we, the SYRIZA government, have already managed to return the fines, 300 million two months ago and will follow more. With the unacceptable regulation under Article 48(9), you want to pass through express procedures - in two months' time - and without personalisation all the acts of the administration relating to forest expropriations, but also to changes in use on the mapping background of forest maps. And you are introducing for this the use of the digital data file of the dissolution already "GREEN S.A.". Are you sure this file meets today's needs? It is dangerous to regulate, because the elements of this file are not up-to-date, it has been over ten years and, above all, they do not have the accuracy and completeness, so as to contribute to an inappropriate tariff, which, as I said at the outset, is our main direction. With such moves it becomes uncertain and the future of all the work that has been done on forest maps. We have defended, at a minimum price for the use on the takeovers, the fight anyway presumption of public ownership on wild land. I didn't hear your position. The presumption is not because they wanted all Greek governments after liberation to establish these lands, but as a result of the succession of the Ottoman state by the Greek state. I also did not hear your views on concessions. So what commitment is there to both grant the ownership of these areas and of the use and what length of time? The S.T.E. He's talking about 1975. So have you, as in all places this view has prevailed. In application, however, things are confusing because the search for a single mapping background at the time of the Constitution's vote, the two nearest mapping dates throughout the territory are 1960, i.e. 15 years earlier, and 1997, that is, twenty-two years later. What time will you take into account? Are you aware of the difference that exists in environmental impacts from applying provisions that have thirty-seven years of distance between them? I have not heard anything, ladies and gentlemen, about the settlements. It is the government's duty to respect the S.H.E.'s decision. Indeed, it was judged in two phases of anti-constitutionalism, on the basis of the provision of Article 24 and Article 117, rather than dealing with this matter with the closure of the eye, by calling on those who have submitted the relevant settlements to object to demolition for thirty years. You must restore, as you are required, the specific areas in the forestry land. And there, only then can we talk about solutions at this stage, of course, not horizontal, but categorised socially and environmentally integrated. That's the solution. So if you are going to inadmissible placement and implementation you understand what will happen. I will give you an example. Do you know in these lands how many declaring resurrected are there? And you know that these acts of proclamation stem directly from Article 117 of the Constitution, which expressly states that these changes in use are not allowed for any purpose, let alone when we have just taken the scientific position of the study of the parliamentary committee, which explicitly states that there is no need for the ultimate public interest when we have uses of these areas for housing purposes. You saw it, but you didn't read it. In the recent Review of the Constitution, and in the oldest, but I am referring to the recent one - because there you had tabled a specific proposal for the revision of Article 24 - that was your initial objective and parts of this objective are implemented through this intervention. Keep in mind that we will continue to be the shield of the natural environment with our views and, above all, with their documentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u174	Thank you. Mr. Katrinis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Stamenitis for his kindness to give me his position. Ladies and gentlemen, in the midst of a health crisis that is evolving in a multitude of crisis, economic and social, the government continues to violate the principles of good lawmaking by introducing a multi-project broom with too many last-minute provisions. We hope that the other dimensions of the crisis do not add an environmental one, either from problematic provisions that create distortions or from poor choices that seem to conflict with the public, but also with the social interest, or even from provisions which are foreign to the principles of sustainable and sustainable development. I will not, however, start with the many negative ones that the bill has, but some positive ones. The bill, it's true, attempts to solve some problems like the forest maps. This is an issue that has been afflicted by hundreds - thousands of citizens, and also in Elijah, without their fault but with the responsibility of the state mechanism. I pointed this out several months ago - Mr Economou remembers it - in a committee in November, in response to incredible delays in the procedures for examining objections, and then the assurance that there will be a definitive solution very soon. It's too late than never. Procedures that had begun since 2017, as too many citizens faced a number of problems when areas marked as agricultural land before 1975 appeared suddenly forestal. In cases, even where such areas with earlier management decisions were included in the city plan, things became even more complicated. Among the problems created by these delays was payment of the single payment to too many producers. Of course, it is not just a question of applying the rules provided for in Articles 48 and 49. It is necessary, Minister, that there is a clear wording for an extension of the deadline for submitting objections to forest maps so that there are no citizens who cannot benefit from these regulations, as many farmers - and I think I interpret most of the province's colleagues - hesitant to object and risk losing aid from the OPEKEPE, and a problem arises with several investments throughout the territory due to errors in the administration. It is therefore a warm request that there be a clear wording that there is a further deadline for objecting when the forest maps are posted on the basis of the new legislation. It is of course a good thing that the bill provides for the digital way of submitting documents by citizens in the realisation process. However, in my view, it should be stated that all documents in all procedures should be submitted electronically and simply, electronically. Therefore, this must be done by electronic means only to avoid various misinterpretations and also because of the new health conditions of the coronary pandemic. The provisions on quarries must provide for a reduction in analogous rent and the guarantee letter - you know very well that the sector is going through a major crisis - but also for the possibility, in addition to national-scale projects and regional projects, of allowing sandy natural deposits of fragments from the beds and the estuary of rivers with a simultaneous compensatory obligation to demarcation of rivers and flooding projects. So we're done with the positive. We are going to the general provisions of the bill with which the Change Movement disagrees by a state. We read in the explanatory memorandum that the services and entrepreneurs should be exempted from a burden of procedures which do not offer anything essential to the protection of the environment and we read about authorisation simplifications. However, in the following articles we see that while incentives and facilities are provided for the large producers of renewable energy, there are no development prospects available to small producers, while practically the energy communities, which we regard as a Change Movement Movement, should be encouraged as a way of energy self-sufficiency and the enhancement of the incomes of the people of the region, are excluded. All of this is done when in Germany 60% of renewable energy is produced by small businesses and households. It is obvious that such models of social economy are outside the philosophy of the government, since large energy players appear to be disturbed. And while on the one hand you are streamlining the prices from the past for main-professional farmers, at the same time you are not protecting the land of high productivity. You are promoting models for the exploitation of production land for other uses, at a time when you should, as a government as a whole, support farmers and farmers, strengthen the country's production capacity and in practice support the export prospects of the primary sector. I have said on many occasions that there is a risk, with decisions taken in the middle of a crisis, that new social inequalities will be created, new gaps between privileged and non-preferential in the post-coronary era, after you are selected from the one hand to support some others and, on the other, to completely exclude others. By abolishing the management bodies of the protected areas and replacing them by a central body in Athens you are destroying every concept of decentralisation and local consultation, undermining a basic principle of sustainable development, with an example of what is done in Kotyhi, Strofilia and Zakynthos. Many questions also exist in connection with solid waste management arrangements. The creation of the regional solid waste management body, to which the region will be involved, and the municipality will have to take part, as well as the Ionian islands, has lifted a very large wave of reactions, but there is also concern - with regard to the fate of projects that are already part of the NSRF, and there is a revolt both in Zakynthos and in Lefkada and in Kefalonia. You were right to withdraw the article that overturns the Presidential Decree of 1998 on the use of land in the center of Athens and I think you should reassess it and it is important to see what the position of the Athens Municipal Council is today meeting on this very matter. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that this bill, as it is, cannot in any case be regarded as environmental. All environmental and scientific bodies suggest that they should withdraw, but also change in many respects. As a movement of change we believe that the country now needs to move with determination, to a new model of growth, by promoting innovation and clean energy, by serving to tackle climate change on the one hand and energy upgrading of the country on the other. This is the model of sustainable and sustainable development that goes beyond a number of conflicts between economic development and environmental protection. This model not only does not adopt it with this bill, but I am very afraid that you are opening the coast of Halos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u176	Mr Stamenitis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u177	Mr President, we have said seven minutes, not nine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u178	At first nine minutes went in because I saw it marked here. But as I saw the practice agreed when Mr Kaklamanis presided over, it is seven minutes with tolerance for two more minutes. Mr. Stamenitis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u179	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after a long, long-term consultation, after a thousand and a half comments on the consultation - as the institutions have said - several of them have entered the bill - after a long debate in committee with twenty-five bodies and seven and a half hours, we are now entering the House, discussing a draft law which, in fact, aims to modernise environmental policy. This is a legislative initiative that goes into deep and necessary areas of Greek environmental law, with regulations that will play an essential role, in order to achieve the objectives we have set as a country for an essential environmental policy for sustainable development, for an ambitious green agenda. This is a bill, as the Minister said, really European, because it follows European guidelines on environmental issues and places Greece on the map of European countries, which are distinguished by their environmental sensitivity. It incorporates European directives and harmonises Greek legislation with European legislation, such as incorporating Community Directive 844/2018 into Greek law, on the energy efficiency of buildings. It is also a bill that is investment-friendly, with arrangements that are attractive to green investments that support growth and attract new investments. The main incision in this direction first is the radical simplification of the environmental licensing process. From six to eight years that are to date, intervention aims to make this time a hundred to fifty days. I really don't understand why anyone wants to withdraw the bill and this provision. Secondly, it is the great reduction in time for the licensing of renewable energy sources. This is where the European nature of the bill is reflected, as Greek legislation is synchronised with those in place in Europe. In addition, this draft law could be described as a ‘green bill’. And this is done with the following interventions: First intervention: The management of protected areas through the overall reform of the system creates a coordinating body for the management of the natural environment in Greece for the first time. It is a requirement of many environmental organizations. Second intervention is to bring the NATURA into line so that it is now clear and absolute what is permitted, which allows it to be done through studies, management plans and presidential decrees. So what happens in all European countries, and so is Greece, with the adoption of this draft law, will be allowed in each region according to its activity and its nature. Third intervention. With regard to the use of a plastic bag, by imposing a uniform fee, independent of thickness and weight, the omissions and loophole of the preceding provision shall be corrected. Wednesday's speech and very important is the management of balls. Here comes the leadership of the Ministry of the Environment and legislates so that no one can issue a building permit unless he has previously signed a licence with an approved alternative management system for the collection of balls. Fifth intervention is in the management of waste, with areas to tackle the problems encountered in many regions of the country. Problems are solved in a way that is more effectively dealt with in a decentralised management plan. But it does not stop the bill here, as with this draft it is characterised and satisfied by a number of problems that the citizens have had, by restoring a number of paradoxicals that the current government has inherited from the previous government, such as the issue of forest maps. This is where a class comes in. The contradictory interpretations between the public services of the nature of the different areas are being terminated. In short, they are not considered to be forest land, as they are, the fields which were granted by the public to Greek citizens and which have grown them for decades. So thousands of our fellow citizens do not risk and lose their subsidies. Another similar case solved by this draft law is the question of housing density. In fact, here the Ministry legislates in full accordance with the spirit of the performance of the Council of State, on the basis of which the previous attempt to resolve the issue is considered unconstitutional. Mr. Apostle, that's what we're doing here. There is a new suspension of forest maps for areas excluded as residential densities. Ladies and gentlemen, legislative initiatives of this nature are greater value if we look at them in the light of the latest developments in the health crisis. And that's why? It is assumed that after the first phase of the pandemic there is an economic recession and in this context it is necessary to realise more than ever that our true counterpart is our natural wealth. Green investments and, more generally, all investments must be at the forefront of the relaunching of the economy after the pandemic, but always with respect for the environment, that is to say, to facilitate their implementation. And that's what this bill does. And that must be done now and voted on now. Obviously, SYRIZA's colleagues are reacting on a number of issues. They react to the procedures, react because they claim that this draft law does not contribute to protecting the environment. Why are they doing all this since the parliamentary procedures have been followed, but this plan does not only create problems, but also protects it? Unfortunately, it turns out that what is most disturbing is that politically they cannot deal with the fact that this government, this Prime Minister, was on hand, they took the appropriate steps in managing the health crisis and entered with serious proposals at the next stage, which is the response to the recession. You are reacting, unfortunately, because you may be trying to cover your responsibilities for the very many problems you have inherited in the current government. Finally, you are obviously reacting to water blurred, because you have not yet expressed an alternative proposal. At least, so far we haven't heard of her. What you've proposed is they move to reason that nothing changes, that the bill should be withdrawn. Obviously, you are satisfied with stagnation. Ladies and gentlemen, the introduction and vote of this bill is nothing but the implementation of the New Democracy programme presented to the Greek people and voted for it. It is the implementation of our positions on what a modern and green environmental policy needs. We are presenting a legislative reform designed to facilitate the processes, without making a discount on environmentally friendly policy, to encourage sustainable development without impact on the environment, to strengthen investment specifically in the energy sector without allowing uncontrolled exploitation of our natural wealth. We don't make environmental discounts, we just modernise to move forward. It is a legislative reform that makes allies of the state, of the economy, of the citizens and of the environment the sun, of water and of the air. In this draft law, the utilization of wealth-productive sources goes hand in hand with the emergence of our natural wealth. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy programme for the environment is indeed ambitious. There is a plan and we are implementing it - step by step. The environment and its protection is a matter for all of us. It is our moral obligation to the future generations and we are invited here to give our best. That is why I call on you to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u180	I'd like to inform you that we did a measurement of the time. We'll get an extension and instead of the 18:00 that was programming, we'll go to 20: 00. If we now calculate that there are more than twenty-four Members left on the list and that the Parliamentary Representatives have not spoken - do not forget that 20: 00 to 22: 00, the Civil Service Committee is meeting and we will have to interrupt - I would say that we should reduce the time to six minutes with tolerance so that we can finish today. I would ask that the time be respected. I have no problem sitting down until night and tomorrow, there is no question, but it will not serve anyone. After all, you are all aware of what I have heard. They were very clear and the rapporteurs were, so we will be able to take it to six minutes and see. Good, since there is no objection, it is accepted. The Houseary Representative of Mera25, Mr Gregoriadis Klons, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not speak extensively about this bill, as many before me have already done so, and I would say it has done so with great depth and thanks to our party representative, the special speaker of Mera25, Mr Kriton Arsenis, who is perhaps one of the special people throughout the country on such matters. I will be judging for a moment, I cannot avoid the temptation, the words of your historic official, Mrs Bakoyannis, whom I value and respect unrestrictedly for her long experience in this area. He asked rhetoric: "But is there even one in this Chamber, which disputes the fact that changes in our country's environmental laws are at last needed?" It is obvious that anyone would answer "Of course not". The problem is whether the changes you are trying to make and, in our view, such changes do not need to be made at all, but at all. Dear Mr. Hatzidakis, you know, the environment has a speciality. He's being imprisoned. And it is not simply inherited into the next generation, but from it to the next and so on. So you are at risk with these six wounds, which I will remind you of. It is about oil extraction in NATURA areas. Let me say that the argument was made by others, and Nicholas, that is, a bad child, SYRIZA, is not a serious argument. It is dangerous that the second argument 'what to do, we have many 'NATURA' regions in Greece'. It does not hurt to keep them, we do not have to close them down those areas. In any case, the first is that. Oil extraction within NATURA areas, as you can hear, anyone who hears it, is somehow concerned. Of course, the abolition of management bodies in protected areas is also extremely worrying, as is the uncontrolled investigation of hydrocarbons extracts, which you are berthed as a government inconvenience. So the first thing you did was the mining sites without any license. On the bells the forest maps have been referred back to. And the five-year extension of course - scandalous, let me say - environmental permit where? In rustia. Which squirrels? In the so-called ‘El Dorado’ s Skouries. This is all worrying. We know, of course, that, as a government - you have said it from the final bill, the Prime Minister has said so, and top ministers have said it - you have decided to follow the model of corporation and indeed of public limited companies, i.e. the irresponsible, as our people say. You know, he's doing that pun. Why are these companies irresponsible? Because, as you know, no one goes to jail from their board of directors, as the shares are anonymous. But, as I have said before, the environment, as I said before, is bequeathed, and so, dear Mr Hatzidakis, if you do not withdraw this whole anti-constitutional, anti-environmental and anti-human, let me say, a bill, you risk not to be blamed just as those who run a generation or even a decade or even the next one, but you are at risk - I really say it - that the Greek people be told to you for ever, because that will be for centuries afterward. The results of all such legislation are written and unwritten. You know, the anonymous companies, to which I referred, are entitled to take risks. The Prime Minister had already said, or a top minister - I do not remember, to be precise - that the Prime Minister is in this case something like the CEO and the Ministers - I imagine it is like the Golden Boys and Golden Girls. However, in anonymous companies one is entitled to unaltered capitalism, which is the neoliberalism we have reached, to take risks, and even to risk large. If he wants profits and big profits, in capitalism one can choose the huge risks. The problem with the environment and the planet is that no one has the moral right to take any such risk. Why? Because when an anonymous company doesn't take the risk, as you know, it makes a bankrupt - a monkey - better than me you know - it appeals to article 99, and immediately afterwards it builds its new vehicle, a new renamed company, which is the old one. And keep going. The problem here is, once the company's bankrupt, our planet is bankrupt. Here's the problem if they take the risk. They say this openly some of the big G28 - I don't remember how many people are anymore - that it is okay that the greenhouse effect may increase the temperature by ten degrees in the next fifty years, but that is 30% probability. 70% chance is to increase it by only two degrees. So, with that logic, if the risk does not come out, unfortunately pope! I'm sorry about the market expression, but I'm sorry. No one can appeal to any article 99, we cannot ask for our planet back, we cannot ask for our country back. These are the anti-environmental bills you brought us today. We will not stop asking you, ladies and gentlemen of the House, our questions, the questions of Mera25. To keep us from forgetting ourselves, they are specific questions. The first is what is going on with 'ERAKLI'. You know who HERAKLIS is. HARAKLIS is this rescue plan for the Greek banks from the red loans that you chose to bring to the House, following the Italian model, which already went bankrupt there. This draft 'HRAKLIS', as you know better than I do, all those who are represented here by the government whether you are MPs or Undersecretaries, I say, in the next few weeks will force our country, the Hellenic Republic - Government as it is written in the videos of 'Home Greece' from below, if you do not finally bring this term of legislative action - for which we beg you, we beg you, we beg you, we unleash you for two months to finally bring it, and we continue not to bring it and ask you, why do you not continue to bring it? - you should give 12 billion euros to the 'parallel funds'. When? At a time when you find it difficult to give even EUR 1.5 or EUR 2 or 3 billion to the Greeks, who are already washed out of the economic crisis, created as a result of the coronary. So what about HERAKLE? Do we still not bring an act of legislative substance to abolish it? That, you know, makes you suspicious of very serious things. Because really, people can't be fooled that way. He wonders what happens when we find ourselves as a state, as a Greek Republic - government, 1 or 2 billion, to alleviate people, 10 billion more, so that all businesses are not closed down unreturned and that there are no more five hundred thousand unemployed in the unemployed, which we already have and are about one million, but we are easily giving the heart light to 12 billion, we are giving the 'predatory funds', suspicions are beginning to be created. Second, what's gonna happen? Will you finally get loans with the ESMs, before ESMs or as I said, postmodern SMS? Are you going to get loans? Will a fifth Memorandum come and what rate exactly will this fifth Memorandum have? You don't answer that either. We're waiting for an answer. Thirdly, next year at this time or at the latest at this time, will you reduce wages and pensions, will you increase taxes? I really expect you to answer us, because we tell you directly 15 days now: you will reduce wages and pensions, you will increase all taxes. Why? Because you will have borrowed the money you will have to return with your fifth memorandum. Mr. Mitsotakis spoke of a fair distribution of the burdens of the next day. What, exactly, are we wondering like Mera25, is this fair sharing? Let's start looking for details of this fair distribution. In the media we all know - you know, we know - that 11 plus 9 million have already been allocated to the promotion of the 'We stay at home' campaign and then 'Outside the house we stay safe.' We hear that it is now added to these 20 million already received by the media for advertising expenditure, another 21 million, which was granted to them this year by the pay of television licences. Do you remember where SYRIZA had brought television licenses for the first time in the TV scenery? It didn't take a year to rule and give them the dose for television licenses. That's 20 million. So Mr. Mitsotakis' generous government holds another gift, except for that. What is it, anyway? This year, for the third quarter, all these canalarchs, the well-known Greek canalarchs, will pay 50% for the signal broadcast provided by DIGEA. You should compare this to the absolutely equal distribution of burdens that my fellow artists or my fellow technicians have to bear in mind, for example. Because, as I have informed you from this step for some time now, for example, we actors, but if I extend it a little, even those who represent them, that is, the thirty-six thousand represented by GOD and the other twelve thousand represented by the Greek Actors Association, and let them be written only six and a half thousand, you can't find them for a month, because they are invisible. I said this first time out of this step and I am very pleased that everyone has adopted it. In fact, you're telling us, with a little boldness, I'd dare say, they're invisible, because they're hurting their heads. What they wanted and worked with 'black', what they wanted and worked without contracts, 'fly' was, and they wanted them too. It's not like that. You know well that after twelve years of memoranda they were consciously pushed by all the Memorandum Governments to proceed to this practice to survive. They were pushed consciously by you, who are now abducting them, not signing contracts, taking "black" money, working a month and taking IKA for just a week. These are pathogens of your memorials, they are not pathogens of my colleagues whether they are artists or technicians. So so long you've been telling us that you will only give two thousand actresses of the eleven thousand, and I assure you that we are, this poor allowance of EUR 800 - because it is EUR 540 for a month and a half - because you do not see them because they are invisible. So long you say that from the other thirty-six thousand in the spectacle - the twelve thousand will not get it, because you do not see them. So I'm telling you today that from here you can very well see them. How can you see them? Here is the "Support Art Workers" - you've heard it, I imagine - who managed to make a great record of signatures. They were over fifty-five thousand when our plenary began. Now they may have exceeded all sixty thousand, because it's taken the form of an avalanche. Greeks support both artists and technicians. I'm tabling it in our Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Claus Gregoriadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point, the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, presents the]] From now on, not just do you see them, but they have a name, Mr Ministers, and you can discuss them directly. These people - the initiative for workers in art, whether they are artists or technicians - have a name, are all the foams of our art and the foam of our techniques - I know them personally - are all the major directors, they are all the great actors that this country has made, they are all the great directors of photography, they are all the great organizing players, they are all the great choreographers, they are all the great, my small and medium-sized colleagues in the broad sense. So you have them testified to the House and instead, what did you say? You said, by Mr Petsa, today in the joint ministerial decision of the three Ministers that in fact your government is only announcing the specific allowance of EUR 800 to those artists who - listen - the lockdown found them with an active contract and the mature artists, which are also scheduled to receive this exceptional special allowance. But, ladies and gentlemen, we have officially in our industry for decades 99% of unemployment. Officially, I inform you, and if you want, you can go to the state to find it. So if we have 99% unemployment officially in our industry, as you can see, the people who have found Lockdown in an active contract, whether they have a day-to-day or a month-to-month deal, is one per cent of those who are actors and from those who are in this way or from those who are technicians and from those who are in this way or from those who are dancers or from those who are musicians or from those who are singers. All these people can't hide behind this announcement. For the great mass of the unemployed and the long-term unemployed, the government has announced us today in the same joint ministerial decision at all - let me say - nothing. In other words, as potentially benefiting from the OAED programmes, which is nothing but one - let me say - the communication of your Government's raw manoeuvre, just to enlighten the multitude of reactions that support the artistic world.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u182	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u183	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. You cannot understand the fact that all society has risen up and tells you that you cannot let them starve, that they have special conditions in their work, because they need three months of rehearsal that are not paid. These three months of rehearsal fall on the only time the coronary will probably leave us and once they're ready to start enjoying the rehearsal either they're technicians or they're artists, the coronary will come back in October, the non-genus, and they won't be able to work again. In fact, we have informed you that it is not unemployment for a while, as it is for everyone else. For all this world working in the sight and hearing is an unemployment that will last one, a year and a half from now. Finally, you say they will be able to apply to choose between hundreds of thousands of unemployed of any specialty. I mean, the OAED municipalities and programs. This, of course, is not a distinct move to strengthen artists. And I'm saying discreet, because I've explained to you why you have to discern them. Because their work is peculiar. I conclude immediately with this: the 15 million of the Ministry of Culture is, of course, the vague - not just vague - panacea of the government, always within the framework of the communication management of society's problems. The artistic world, like the citizens, requires a specific project, dear New Democracy government. Stop vaguely. Get a concrete plan. Help our winter people. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u184	Voludakis has the floor from New Democracy. Then Mr. Stavros Arachovitis will speak from SYRIZA. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many years ago. After a month and a half of quarantine, I see this folding, not as a restriction, but as a precursor of returning to normality. We'll make it as well as we did it all the way here. I hope and I'm sure we'll go well and then. With the bill we are discussing - I believe - an effective and realistic composition of two objectives, the need to protect the environment on the one hand and the need to promote and accelerate investment, which is essential in our own country, an acceleration that is necessary both for public and private investment. Because sometimes, we forget the public. We in Crete, however, have the loose end of the BOAK, which - I believe - will be able to implement, complete environmental studies and adopt environmental conditions much faster. We'll talk more thoroughly about this in the articles tomorrow. In today's debate at the outset, I will say a few words about our energy policy and, in particular, electricity. We are currently going with a long-term energy design that is reflected in the National Energy and Climate Plan. It is a plan with impressive goals, with impressive formation and integrated knowledge. It is a project primarily aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions. It does, in fact, overshadow the relevant objectives of the European Union. The circumstances have, however, changed since this plan was drawn up. And they've changed drastically. I am referring to the economic consequences that pandemic brings. The recession that comes is serious. Even if, as the very optimistic scenarios say, this year's recession is completely reversed by the growth of time, even then, we will speak cumulatively for two lost years in the course of the Greek economy. I do not even want to discuss what will happen if some of the pessimistic scenarios are implemented. This recession in the meantime comes exactly when our homeland needed an investment bar, not a stagnation. Strategic energy planning must be changed to take account of this data, in order to respond to the prospect of the pandemic recession. The truth is that this also requires modification of the policy objectives agreed with the European Union. I fully understand the difficulty of such a project, not only because the European Union is more difficult to change policy, but especially because the European Commission and some Member States are already sending out the message that the Green Agreement is not going to change, despite the upcoming recession. The fact that the opposite view appears today very powerful does not mean, however, that I will not formulate the position, which I consider to be right on such a crucial issue. In any case, the debate in Europe on the new proposal for a climate law that the European Commission brings soon can be a vehicle for such an amendment of policy either for the whole of Europe or for our country, in any case within the framework of European legislation. Otherwise, it is likely that events will later impose the review under more favourable circumstances. We must review our planning for two reasons, Minister, in my view. The first is that today investment must be directed as far as possible in the sectors with the greatest multiplier effects on the economy in these areas where jobs are created. The truth is that renewable energy does not create many jobs, except when it is built and installed. Our national plan provides for 46 billion investment in this area. The Commission itself, in its new strategy for European industry, considers that the investments in the Green Agreement will create some one million jobs throughout the European Union by 2030. Assuming that these are distributed approximately proportionally to each country's population, this will mean that for our country we have an additional twenty-five thousand jobs by 2030. It's a very low number. We will have lost more than so many places from liberation to Kozani, Florina and Arcadia until 2028. We are, of course, predicting in our plan twenty-five years old, thirty-three thousand jobs. We cannot, however, see what is happening now, immediately, especially with the problem that comes to us pressingly and threateningly hitting the door. I am sure Kostis Mousouroulis, who has undertaken the coordination of the plan for liberation, will come in June with a very good proposal. But he can't do miracles too. The second reason, which makes it necessary to review the National Plan on Energy after the pandemic, is the high cost of electricity in our country. It is 50% above the European Union's average on the wholesale market. Priority to climate neutrality obviously does not lead to lowering costs. Despite the widespread impression, renewable energy sources are not cheap means of energy production. There's no time to analyze this now. Those who know, however, understand what I mean. This does not mean that renewable energy should be allowed to be allowed to become marginal. Not at all. What I am saying is that to a certain extent, the pace of their expansion must be restrained. That is, in my view, also necessary in order to support the investments already in existence. Because the account of the management of renewable sources is already under pressure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I will need some more time, Mr President, in the context of what has been agreed on the time. Our country's productive businesses need a reduction in energy costs, so that they can compete internationally on equal terms. Very often, many believe that we do not have productive powers in our homeland. That's a mistake. Many people will be surprised to hear that although we have actually been deindustrialized in recent years, our exports, which are 90% industrial exports, bring income to the country, as much as incoming tourism. Attention, I mean incoming tourism before pandemic. To be practical, what could be the aim of a review of our energy policy? For example, an extension of two, three years could be requested...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u186	Mr Colleague, if we can, we can keep the time, because otherwise, we'll get away a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u187	Mr President, in the morning the number of speakers agreed was known...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u188	We just agreed that we could...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u189	I need another minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u190	Please, Mr. Colleague, go on for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u191	So an extension of two, three years - for many, it could sound as if it were a good thing, but let us see the essence - to achieve the objectives of reducing emissions of pollutants while reducing the cost of pollutants, which can be done by limiting the retention of free allowances, which the committee is doing every year. There's the mechanism. Let us not forget that, after all, the recession brings about a reduction in pollutants, anyway. Already, it's estimated 8% so far. This is far more than anything the strategic planning of green energy can do. Let's not forget that our homeland broadcasts 0.17%-0.17%! - global pollutants.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u192	Mr. Voloudakis, you've exceeded time in two minutes and we'll have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u193	Such a policy could make PPC's lignite plants viable for two to three years, to facilitate a truly fair transition to the post-lining era. The objective of the abolition of lignite must, of course, be maintained, even with a little delay. The current government has shown such seriousness and consistency on the international stage that it can put forward such a claim without reducing to a minimum its valuable political capital of credibility. There is no doubt that if we could only produce energy from renewable energy sources, our world would be better. But this moment is still late. Not because we're doing something wrong, but why should the energy storage technology be cheap first. We've been away for years now, the experts say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u194	Mr. Comrade, you've been over nine minutes. I would ask you to conclude, so that all Members can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u195	In this first two months of pandemic, we have shown that we can become an example internationally of the boldness, determination and effectiveness of our policy. The same virtues are now called upon to show in the field of economic recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u196	I would ask that we keep the time, if we want to be consistent in the programme, which we have set up, so that you can leave early and not be late at the next meetings.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u197	Mr President, this morning we already had this data, this consultation took place, and we adjusted our speeches accordingly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u198	I understand that for those who came before me it's unfair. But that can be done. Prior in Tempor, Potor in ure. This isn't the first time. When the House meets and we have a reduction in working hours and speaking time, it always happens. The regulation also provides for a maximum of seven minutes. Still, we talked about nine minutes. We were delayed this morning with the objection of unconstitutionality. The world has not been lost now to show an understanding. Mr Arachovite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the circumstances with which we are working as a parliament, but much more so what the world is facing in its everyday life, are unprecedented. We're adjusting. However, what matters most, on the one hand, is to return to normality, as much as possible. On the other hand, as regards the way in which legislation is to be drafted, there must be no work on the coronary, pandemic and preventive measures, so that they can go through procedures such as today's bills of legislation which are particularly important, even when the objections of unconstitution, as you have been told this morning, have been raised, but environmental organisations and a number of bodies have shown their opposition. Here, it is reasonable to wonder why there is something so urgent and we must, in these circumstances, proceed with the vote on the bill. It would therefore be wiser than the government to withdraw the bill and proceed with a process of regularity. You said, Minister, this morning that both GEOTE and most of the bodies you have heard are in agreement with the bill. However, as we have all seen from the investigation that every good-faithful listener of your words could easily do, the opposite is true. No one was in favour of the bill. Even GEOTEE - even presented it to you today in writing - in many articles asked for their withdrawal and in others at least expressed their reservations. It wasn't positive anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u200	In an article!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u201	In an article he was positive, he said he was in agreement. That's what I said. I said this, that GEOTE also asked for its withdrawal in an article, and in others it expressed its reservations. In a single article, he agreed. Therefore, in support of my words, it would be advisable to follow another procedure. Also, the Department of the Environment of the University of Thessaly called in total for the withdrawal of the bill and its review. I mean, in a bill, he's been retired. We are now going to the articles of the bill, with the management agencies first. As far as management bodies are concerned, in the way you degrade their operation, you are mainly removing them from society and the possibility of finding solutions to problems relating to protected areas. I'm going to tell you a typical example. The Management Body of the Mustos Parnonas, who has two main issues within his and the Euro River. One is the pollution of the river from the agricultural industry and the second is the placement of HYTY above the sources of Vasilopotamos, a permanent river. So, as far as the management body is concerned, which should have been strengthened, but in any case there is and is aware of the situation, with the deterioration both from resources and from administrative resources, which you bring to the bill, you remove any possibility of a real picture transfer of the situation to the Ministry in order to make the right decisions. Let's go to Article 48 and the forest maps. Here, while you are trying to deal with a serious issue that really exists for the first time in 1975 with concessions - a real issue - on the one hand, you are doing so in the wrong way, on the other hand, you are not responding to the basic, which is the opinion of the Council of State on the possibility of buying out from farmers. What does the Council of State say? It says that the arrangement made by the previous law of SYRIZA was very pro-agricultural. And what are you doing is taking just one step back covering the problem and, in what way? With the suspension of the forest maps. As the provision for the protection of subsidies already existed in the previous law, no subsidy will be lost, as it has not been lost. When either an objection or a redemption was resolved, the farmer was paid for his subsidies. There was no loss. What you are doing is exactly what you said that it must not happen: the reference to the bells. By suspending the forest map procedures, you refer to the bells the resolution of a problem that did not arise from the operation of forest maps, but appeared with the application of forest maps. Since 1975, the country has had to become a normal country. It was only in 2017, when we dared to start a process, knowing that problems of decades would come to the surface. We knew. We dared, however, to make the country a normal country. Wherever legislation is needed or where adaptation is needed, this is the House to legislate. But not to suspend operation and turn the country back into other procedures. No way! With regard to energy communities, I'm going to say a word, because you told us here that you were in favour of private investment, etc. With your recent decision on energy communities, Minister, what did you do? Energy communities are the most part of or in favour of farmers it has been legislated and has been implemented so far. This is also apparent from the interest, from the hug it has taken from the world. You bring back to priority planned investments costing the world to producers. You bring it back. Why? To give priority to purely private interests. So this is where you are dealing with both farmers and participation. I conclude by raising an issue in which we will come back to this House immediately with a question. Since yesterday, in Lakonia, the only island municipality of Lakonia, is cut off from three to two. In other words, the Municipality of Elafonissos now in May communicates with two routes all day with mainland Greece. This is something that the Ministry of Shipping and the Government must take into account. It can't be done. The residents and the municipality, organized, have opposed them. We need to take immediate care of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that thirty Members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group have tabled a proposal to extend the number of criminal offences investigated which the former Deputy Minister of Justice, Dimitris Papagelopoulos, may have been in the performance of his duties. This proposal will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, printed and distributed to Members and placed on a special agenda, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u203	The Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Kostis Hadjidakis, is now called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, I now speak in keeping with the old parliamentary custom, the Minister speaking with the rapporteurs, of course, after the sixth speaker on the list. So I thought I'd stay loyal to traditions and that's what I'm talking about right now. On the substance, this is, obviously, someone for or against it is the government's main environmental bill. It is a bill which, in many cases, comes to fulfil New Democracy's programme commitments. It promotes a series of reforms, clear. One might agree, one might disagree, but the reforms are clear. Nobody accused the bill of having vague arrangements. No one said that. The government underlines this in the debate and we will prove that this bill is an instrument of green development, essentially. If you look, find a common denominator in the provisions of the bill, that's what it is. What have I seen since this bill was discussed and since it was submitted? I've seen two things. One is an incredible empathy from the point of view of counter-population. At the same time, however, I see something else, which is in complete contrast with the first one. I'm looking at fire. I see'very oil and pancake nothing'. Words, words, words. “You have destroyed the environment”, “the tops are coming down” and when you get caught puking your criticism, there is nothing left. I'll prove it once more. Because, in fact, you have structured your opposition to a number of myths, which do not correspond to the content of the bill, and when one comes in to see your main position, it seems that you are actually saying other than what is inside the bill, and yet there is nothing to do with your criticism of what is happening in the other Member States of the European Union. Because we have to have a point of reference. I can't have North Korea or any other state. We are in the European Union. We are compared with the European Union. Let's get them in order. As far as licensing is concerned, we are making an acceleration. We come down from the six or eight years, which we are in many cases at this hour, at a hundred or fifty days. I think it's positive. We cannot be the country of 'the trouble'. We cannot be the country that is prosecuting investors, much more so that we have had the ten-year crisis that has troubled the country and which has now also had the consequences of the coronary crisis. What can we do? Stay unreal in the face of this problem? What are we doing? I will not analyse them all because they have been presented by Mr Economou's excellent suggestion. We're doing a series of interventions. We also put private evaluators who will handle the file. They will not be signed and the investor will not choose them. They'll be selected by draw. We are setting shorter deadlines and in the end we tell the public services to tell us, in a time-limit, yes or no. I said that to the committee. If they want to say no, say no. It's their right. In the case of archaeological and forestry services, this in Greece was and will continue to remain of increased gravity. It's over. That's clear. However, a public service cannot hold an investor - whoever he is - for eight years. This thing can't be done. You're going to say: are these, however, exaggerated? Are you doing it by ideologies while it is not happening in other European countries? To stop just one example, because it was criticized for that too. Why are you doing GDP and environmental conditions - it has been said today - for ten, fifteen years? I will not just say that the OECD is heading in this direction. I have here OECD reports. I will say that in Italy, for example, by a Presidential Decree, the same environmental authorisation is laid down in fifteen years. I got the numbers, I got everything. I said it to the committee, but I say it quickly, so we don't waste time. Whoever disputes them will testify. In the Netherlands, environmental authorisations are issued for an unlimited period. Do we, here, have more environmental sensitivity? I don't know. In Great Britain, they are issued for an unlimited period of time. In Spain, with bd1/2016 GDP is allocated for an unlimited period. What's our reduced sensitivity? To understand it with evidence, not with big words. I have Directive 92/43/EEC of the European Parliament and of the Council on this matter. That is why a number of things have been heard. The Directive says that in the consultation, the parties concerned have the opportunity to express their opinion on the information provided by the principal. That is what EU law says. We have all of what I have said to you before, about the archaeological services, about forestry services, but also about what will be done for the NATURA regions, through the FRYPEKA. In other words, there are stricter rules than those imposed by the Community directive. I am going further, because we have no endless time, in the protected areas and in the new organisation that we are doing, of the FRYPEKA. We are again accused of committing crimes here. But first of all, we have been holding a consultation since October and have taken into account the conclusions of the consultation. We have started to give a much more increased role to the regions and, following the consultation, which we have conducted with environmental organisations and all stakeholders, we are bringing this model, which exists in Portugal, Austria, Finland, Ireland, that is to say in almost all European countries, which are the same size as Greece. Everyone's been wrong, and we've been doing the right thing so long, we've had the thirty-six boards? Also, let me tell you something else. I have here - it had been challenged in committee that this was the proposal from the Network of Protected Areas Management Bodies, those who have so far been, whom you are defending and doing well, who are proposing a central body. I'll testify later for the Minutes. I can't give it from this plaque here. In any case, however, here are the facts, ladies and gentlemen. Why, then, is there such a need for distortion within you? So big political despair? That big? Is it also true or not that we are the first government, which in these areas, which we are 'disastering' according to your theories, are we giving substantial funding? So far, 30% of the country was at 8 million a year. You're talking about major reforms with 8 million to 30% of the country! Now, for the first time, there is a special resource from all mild activities that will be developed within these areas. It will be retained in favour of the sustainable development of these regions and nature protection. One speaker did not have the sensitivity to recognize it at least because there is a blind party passion, which turns against you, but your right! I'm going further. Forestry: Why are we accused? We were accused of sending the forest maps to the bells. Who were we accused of? The ones who sent them to practice. I said this morning, and now I repeat, that at the rate of quarreling of objections - there were hundreds of seventy thousand objections, which also shows the sloppiness of the maps - we would need for half of Greece twenty-seven years. And you're talking about bells! Words have lost their meaning. We are dealing with this. We hope that in two years' time this loose end will be addressed. At the same time, we are dealing with another subject: because of the idea of having baptized fields, which have had tens of years - and now also have rice, wheat, cotton, various agricultural crops, as forests. There are people who have papers from Eleftherios Venizelos - refugee - from Constantine Karamanlis of the first eight years, reafforestations. All these people are hostages of an incomprehensible idealism. What were they forced to do? The whole world needs to know. They had to go, on the basis of the decisions of the previous government, SYRIZA, to buy the fields from themselves. Theater of irrationality! This whole thing has fallen, of course, in the courts. This, however, has even been supported by some colleagues today. I don't get it. In other words, you sometimes wonder whether all these things that are being raised by SYRIZA, particularly in the field of forestry policy, live or dream about. There could be a ignominious silence. I think it would be better than coming and giving us the opportunity to remind all farmers and not just - seventy thousand objections have been made - what you have done with the forests. That's what we're doing. And there is a clear assurance within the prefecture that we are talking about fields whose agricultural use remains today. A SYRIZA colleague also said about the so-called housing density. Let's see, it says, we're the decision of the Council of State. What about us? But we obviously saw it because we took a law from you, which was declared unconstitutional by the Council of State last November and we are coming to correct your own mistakes. That's what this is about. Even that's what you're doing to the prosecutors. Even in it! What are we doing in this law? After the forest maps and all these things are not considered non-forestry, we then give the Council of State the key to the decision. Let the Council of State decide by a presidential decree, which the Council of State considered this law unconstitutional - yours - what it thinks. It is the only point, which, I think, no one can question that it will eventually come to a constitutional decision, because it will take the decision, not the Ministry, but the Council of State. I'm going further. Waste: I wonder why this reaction and the objection of anti-constitutionality exist, since we are trying to deal with the issue of transhipment stations, for which there is an unfinished situation in dozens of municipalities. We have several other municipalities in the line, to whom I would like to say that we are going to deal with their issue in the next bill, because we want to do all this in one order. What's the problem? So what are you telling us? Let me go tell the municipalities, which we incorporate, that you won't have transhipment stations, because SYRIZA wants there to be a mess in the trash or other opposition parties? Honestly, all of you, who are supposed to raise the environmental flag up, do you think this is an environmentally friendly message? Don't you realize it's a self-request, a cancellation of your arguments? What do you say we do on the islands? Do you remember what happened last summer with the garbage, for example in Corfu, that was a BBC thing? You see the problem with Mykonos, with Santorini, with almost all the Aegean islands. What can we do? Shouldn't we run a coordinated management? Shouldn't we interfere on this matter? Let there be fines? Let there be a tourism issue, there's a public health problem? Are you criticising this? Don't say good. We don't need a good one. But again, I'm surprised. Also, I do not understand the insistence of the Minority rapporteur to keep saying that the government is lying. I do not think - and I say again - that SYRIZA should use this word very often, for reasons that we all know. Here, again, I have the proof. He said from our imagination that we had a document from the South Aegean GDR that there was an agreement. Here's the document! Behold! Read it! The President writes in that there is unanimity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u205	After disguised by all the mayors.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u206	I shall submit it because Mr Famellos previously claimed that this document was a culmination of my imagination. I'm not SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u207	The President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u208	I'm not SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u209	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u210	If you've learned to judge the perverts yourself, because you've done the false profession...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u211	Why are you lying again?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u212	Mr. Janakopoulos, don't interrupt. You'll answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u213	...this is your issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u214	Please don't interrupt. That's what the Minister says. You will be given the opportunity to reply. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u215	I am going further, because I have more to do with opposition and particularly with SYRIZA. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I've got better for you. Wait till you hear them. We are going to the NATURA regions. There was a rumour - at first you were also under the impression in the committee, then only in social media - that there are no activities in the NATURA areas. Here I bring it again - I will testify for the Minutes, because in a part of society there is still this debate - the Community Directive 92/43/EEC on the conservation of natural habitats and of wild fauna and flora. Article 6(3) refers precisely to the fact that this procedure is allowed and sets out specific conditions. Paragraph 4 further states that if, despite the negative conclusions of the impact assessment and in the absence of alternatives, a plan is to be carried out for other imperative reasons of a significant public interest, including on grounds of a social or economic nature, the Member State shall take all necessary compensatory measures to ensure the protection of overall cohesion ‘NATURA 2000’. We don't even use this device. We are not talking about compensatory measures, and we are talking about emergency measures in the NATURA regions. I say this to see how much disharmony your criticism is, with what European legislation actually provides. I also want to make a statement on the Minutes, so that anyone who is once interested in this debate can be present - the Council Decision 1804/2018, which is mentioned - our Council of State - in mining in NATURA areas. It says the Council of State: ‘In addition, the provisions of Article 6 of Directive 92/43/EEC on habitats, which also apply to areas designated as special protection zones, do not in principle prohibit the carrying out of mining activities and, in particular, the carrying out of investigations to seek for or not minerals.’ That's all for the Council of State. Don't you believe the Council of State? Believe yourself. Believe Mr Famelos, who was the Minister who took out the presidential decree on the Cyparissian. Here I have the presidential decree on the Cypresian. It has four pages for activities and uses of land in NATURA areas! I invented them? I read, among other things, because I told you that it was four pages: 'In these areas farm tourism, catering shops, farming activities, warehouses, processing plants, standardisation and packaging of agricultural products are allowed to build up at a minimum of fifty metres from the front of the field to the edge of the cauldron'. You have done all this and, of course, it is in line with Community legislation. But I'm telling you, why you forgot what you did yourself. You want us to live in a world of fantasy. But I'm on my way because I have more. I have here this colorful multipage text of the European Commission, which is recent. It is entitled: ‘A document of guidelines for the extraction of minerals other than energy and NATURA 2000’. In other words, it directs the Member States how they make mining within NATURA. That is what the European Commission says on the basis of the directive, which I spoke about earlier. Is it the result of my imagination, ladies and gentlemen? You see what I see or do you see anything else? If you see anything else, I'll testify to it in the Minutes, bring scientists, specialists, biologists - I know - who you want to see if what I testify to is the same thing or something? Where are we going with this? Are we going to have such a surreal conversation in the Greek Parliament? But I keep going. I do not want to talk about which countries, because they are happening in almost all countries - because Mr Arsenis said so before - and in the Nordic countries they are happening and in Sweden. They have also been said in committee. I don't have time to say it. I want to go to oil mining. I have paperwork here, too. For example, I got a call. These are infinite countries. As far as Germany and oil mining are concerned, Mittelplate is the largest oil look in Germany. Located in a marine area protected national park, seven km from the coast. It is also a protected location of UNESCO. I - unless you say something different - I am not a German Minister. I'm telling you what's going on. I would add here another country, with a well-known environmental sensitivity, the Netherlands. Here's the map of the Netherlands. In this context, this map says that in marine areas classified as NATURA mining are carried out. That's in the Netherlands. Now they don't have SYRIZA's sensitivity! You could assume that! I now come to SYRIZA, who criticizes and moves the finger with the environmental organizations, with which Mr Tsipras is currently meeting. I'll testify to the Minutes and this map. What's that map? A map of Greece. In Greece, therefore, SYRIZA had given some land. Looks like which plots he gave. So on plots which he gave or re-issued, it emerges - when you compare the plots that SYRIZA and NATURA gave - that in all or almost all of the plots that SYRIZA gave as a government there are NATURA areas! Mercy! If no one says mercy at this point, when will he say so? I really don't understand your strategy. Your agony, watching polls, has blinded you and made one mistake after another. It has only been months since November 2018 - I will also present this to you in the Minutes - WWF has reported to you for this very reason that you are able to extract oil to 'NATURA'! This is the presence of SYRIZA on the subject of NATURA and its policy on NATURA. I obviously don't have the time I'd need, and I'm supposed to slow down. I mean that - and I have them here, but I will keep some for tomorrow's debate, because it is endless - SYRIZA, who represents the prosecutor, has a series of convictions from the court of the European Union and a series of open cases, which left us for the environment, among others - take care now - and for NATURA! Because we have an open complaint right now - which was the first one I found when I took over the Ministry - precisely for habitats, precisely for this matter. I have eleven different cases to which I could refer, but I would need literally hours to tell what I have been living in both Parliament and outside the House. This bill, which is so 'destructive' to the environment, includes all these European regulations - and I think it also proves to the most ill-considered observer - and also includes a number of arrangements for private connections, so that people can connect to the sewer system in many municipalities in the country, particularly in eastern Attica. It has arrangements to stop the tricks with plastic bags and unified ends for plastic bags, which is primarily a proactive environmental metro. It has regulations - and they have been mentioned before - on the legal disposal of balls. You will not make building permits if you have not been involved with an AKK system - where these systems exist - so that the coasts, forests, etc. are not polluted. There is also a number of other arrangements, in any case, which are at the same wavelengths as the policy of this government, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, for defoliation, for the Acropolis - where we will regulate the issue with the heights through the Council of State, as the environmental organisations have called for - for the withdrawal of disposable plastics, for energy savings - which we in the EESC have a very ambitious approach - on electricity supply, which will shortly be tabling a relevant environmental bill, on the Kyrgyraisian issue which last week has gone to inspectors and saw that there are a number of illusions in which the Ministry of the Environment will not remain indifferent, for the national reforestation plan, which is a great initiative that we are preparing, so that we can really support forests, but what they really need rather than imaginant with rice and rafts, which you are trying to support. We, ladies and gentlemen, are talking about work. Because the Prime Minister and all of us at the Ministry of Environment and Energy are a project team. In committee I said, let us finally stop questioning each other's sensitivity and I said that no one can be more sensitive to my own child and his future on this planet and in this country than I am myself. Even this was questioned, that I am not sensitive to my child and that you love it more! Mercy! There's no brake. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not judged here for our sensitivity to the environment. We all love the environment. We're judging how we're practically serving it. You had five convictions and six open cases in the European Union. You did not go ahead with liberation. You created the problem in Gold, south of Lassithi with uncontrolled tourism. You for our environment left the sad images with the Tritsis Park. You left the garbage mountains of Ms. Durus, who today decided to protest at 18.00 in the afternoon against this bill. Who? Mrs. Duru, who left this legacy in today's district! This is the New Democracy and its work in the environment, and this is SYRIZA and his work in the environment. Here, ladies and gentlemen, you have come with a surplus of fanaticism and a lack of arguments and you will be leaving as a opposition to the crys, as a opposition to demagogy and ultimately - whoever sees the whole debate - an opposition of nothing. Because you didn't tell us anything essential. All that turned out to be is your despair, which turns against you all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u216	Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr. Yannis Delis from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u217	Mr President, I am not going to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u218	We have said to speak after the Minister, two Members. After Mr. Delis you will speak, Mr. Heta. Two Members because this is the case, so that the Minister does not always coincide with the parliamentary representatives. It was indeed your turn to speak now, but the Minister intervened and so you will speak in a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u219	Well, Mr. Charakopoulos will now speak, then Mr. Delis will then speak the Greek Parliamentary Representative Mr. Hetas. Next, Mr. Amyras from New Democracy and Mrs. Kafantari from SYRIZA will speak and then the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Karathanasopoulos will speak. Mr Harakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament's work is taking place in unprecedented circumstances of a peculiar war. The professed successful treatment of pandemic in our homeland has highlighted the value of the country having leadership worthy of the challenges, but also the maturity of the Greek society, which has listened with religious devotion to the paralysis of the scientific community. From now on, however, with the gradual lifting of restrictive measures, we are entering a new more difficult phase, because we will all give tests, not just the state and the institutions. We are all called upon to adapt to the new data, with a sense of individual responsibility for protecting the highest good of public health. I believe that this time we are going to be winners, because what the country has achieved in the past period is of enormous importance. In two months' time, we changed the distorting picture that was formed into world opinion over the past decade. Let us maintain it, and that will be the greatest investment in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, in response to the voices asked for by the pandemic by the House to put down rolls or throw more the pace of legislative work, I would say that the conditions impose exactly the opposite, speeding up legislative work, so that we can deal with the effects on the economy of the global recession. It's really a shame to be heard by the opposition extreme populist krone. Only, as polls show, these malnutrition no longer attracts listeners. In this context, the government is obliged to speed up, as it did with digital governance in inconceivable fast-time. He must do the same in every area, discharge him of the distortions of the past. The draft law of the Ministry of the Environment we are discussing today is a response to the challenges of the next day of the pandemic, which the country will need as much as ever to attract and develop business initiatives. Unfortunately, the pretext for protecting the environment raises insuperable obstacles to creating a healthy and vital climate for our survival. Time-consuming procedures and the red tape monster are firing out every investment. At a time when no one knows what the next day of the world economy will be, Greece must use all weapons to create a friendly investment environment. Why should we wait for even eight years in our country to get environmental permits when the European directive, as has been said, speaks for ninety days and in most countries of Europe it is between a hundred and a hundred and fifty days? With the simplification of the procedures, the time will also shrink in Greece in five to six months. In this area, too, Greece ceases to be Europe's black sheep. However, what is also important to promote renewable energy sources is also important. With the government's declared objective of total liberation, the bill brings dramatic shortenings to the authorisation of RES from the two years, which is now, in just two months' time. Of course, they deserve congratulations to the head of the Ministry of the Environment to restore the price of electricity from the agricultural photovoltaics to the levels before the active memorandum cuts. A special reference is also the arrangement for extending the fee of plastic bags for all plastic bags and not just the thin ones, except those which are degraded. I hope soon, Minister, that we will move towards a more bold step towards a complete ban on plastic bags. The Prime Minister, who is recognized as the "green" Prime Minister, has also committed himself to withdrawing disposable plastics in 2021. Let me also welcome the regulation on the management of hazardous waste, such as asbestos. Over the past few days there has been a lot of noise in my constituency about abandoned facilities with damaged elenits, the ownership of the National Bank against the Tyrnavo High School. I have also asked you a question, in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, after the reasonable protests by parents and teachers. The new regulation deals with cases where owners or polluters do not take measures to remove hazardous waste. No one should be unconscious. Finally, I come to the most important regulation concerning the world of the Greek region, and for which, Minister, you are thankful for thousands of farmers and landowners, who, in the clandestineness of forest maps from the previous government, had to prove that they are not elephants. Prior to the war, which was given by Eleftherios Venizelos to our grandparents, who came from Asia Minor, for their rural restoration, fields of expropriation and refreshment by the state and its local organs were baptized in one night of forest land, their property was questioned, which were defeated to make it productive and their ability to transfer it to their children. Neither one nor two but a hundred and seventy thousand are the objections that have been made. One million are estimated to be the acres which, while cultivating and receiving subsidies from the country's accession to the European Union, were suddenly considered forestly with - among other things - a risk to Community aid in the country. Some were forced to demand the acquisition of their own land. This arrangement will be exempted from any debt. Ladies and gentlemen, in the summer of 2019, when the New Democracy took over power, we knew that the way out of Greece was difficult. However, very soon the early optimism rays had already been projected. Unfortunately, pandemic makes recovery even more difficult. But with the confidence that we acquired the previous period in our forces, I am sure that we will eventually be the winners of this battle. Thank you. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u221	Please, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, it is completely falsified by this barbaric title: 'Modernisation of environmental legislation', which the government has chosen for the bill. In fact, no modernisation of environmental legislation is done with it. What is being done with today's bill is to sideline even those minimum environmental conditions still remain and function until now, protecting the environment from all reasonable business actions, actions, of course, that do not want such obstacles on their feet and on their profits. That is why the representative of the Greek industrialists in his position on the bill at the meeting with the institutions called it an important bill, which is moving in the right direction. He is aware, of course, of the fact that the proposals are being implemented and certainly satisfying the wishes of the Greek Industrial Association. It is interesting, however, at the same meeting yesterday and another point from the placement of this representative of the Greek industrialists. I am referring to this, which called for a review of the provisions on land use in NATURA areas, stressing that they must move on the basis of Community case-law and decisions of the Council of State in order to balance economic development with environmental protection. Can this happen? If the answer to this question is yes - and it is yes - the next crucial question arises, the question about when and how it is possible to achieve this balance between economic development and environmental protection. Can this balance occur in conditions of capitalist economy and the corresponding general social organisation of capitalism? Incidentally not, for the very simple reason, because this capitalist economy and its development have only one motive, it also has one objective: capitalist profit. Nothing less, nothing more. All the rest comes second, and when one of them, like good time the environment, becomes an obstacle to profit, it is being sidelined. That is exactly what the government is seeking with this bill. One can now say: you communists are overdoing it again. But let everyone think, why is it that half a million people in the western districts of Thessaloniki are now exposed to dysosmia and pollution, which prove to be spreading through the ELPE refineries, despite the protests of the people? Why is this environmental burden, which has a major impact on the health of the people, still - and not only is it still, but it is growing - if not so that the profits of the shareholders of this company are not affected? Let someone think, why are the inhabitants of Volos and Alivei, in a little while, in Thessaloniki and throughout the country, going to breathe the carcinogenic combustion of cement waste, if not for the blacks - why is it blacks, is it not green - profits of this handful of shareholders, who also have the nerve from above to fly where and where, there and a donation with two - three benches and a few trees, to show a little environmental profile? All of this and many other things throughout the country are well known in today's reality, that we live and show how value capitalist development endows the environment. There is, however, and it will certainly be more competent again this time, and that development of economic and social life, which can achieve the necessary balance with the environment. Except that this development does not have an incentive, nor does the profits of the few shareholders of the anonymous companies, but instead has an incentive exclusively and only purpose, to satisfy all the modern social needs, according to the scientific and technological potential of the time. We are, of course, talking about socialization of concentrated production, central scientific planning, unlike the anarchy of capitalism, and of course real power in the hands of the people is three of the unconditional ones. The Secretary of State for the Environment is now coming and claims that they are adopted - he says - in full all European environmental protection directives. We don't disagree, Minister. In fact, all these directives are adopted, only you know, that is exactly what the problem is, because it is a little difficult for an imperialist union to convince of its environmental sensitivities, when, together with NATO a few years ago, it was throwing thousands of depleted uranium bombs into the Balkans during the Yugoslavian war, but when it is done, this European Union is, now that we are talking about, one of the world's major polluters, buying from poorer countries the right to pollute even more. Yeah, they sell and buy pollutants. We're talking about such a sensitive environmentally sensitive thing! And they teach the people of respect for the environment from above. So much is their hypocrisy. Don't say more. A moment ago, the Minister himself, Mr Hatzidakis, argued and proved with documentary, which he himself testified, how the European Union itself guides and coordinates investment even within NATURA areas, in other words, the highest level of environmental protection. If he has such friends in the environment, he blindly has his enemies! On the same question of hypocrisy comes the European Union, the Government, but also the other urban parties, to say that the main incentive to liberate the country is - listen, listen! - the environment and at the same time as they say this they announce the conversion of Western Macedonia into a gas chamber because of the general burning of waste, which they intend to use there. The master plan of the liberation of Western Macedonia is very simply a plan cut and sewn to the measures of green business groups that will, of course, come out very benefiting from all these plans.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u223	Please, please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u224	No fair development exists for the people of the region of western Macedonia, but also for the whole country, in this fair development transition, as they say, because both the debate and the process of this transition are how beneficial the business groups will be by rocking, once again, huge financial packages that have come out of the people's hump. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u225	Mr. Konstantinos Hetas, Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u226	Mr President, thank you very much. Too bad Mr. Hatzidakis isn't here. I hope, during my speech, that the Minister will come because I will start today's speech - I will really say it frankly - by stealing his own phrase. Mercy, Mr. Hatzidakis - what you said before - mercy! Mercy with what you say and keep comparing your own governance, our country's governance with what SYRIZA did, "that's what SYRIZA did! See what you've done, we'll do it too!' Are you interested in SYRIZA or Greece? Let me get this straight. How can you document everything that you bring today, the hundred thirty articles, and ask for explanations and tell us that the previous ones did so? Is that how you run? So if they were to steal, you'd steal too? If they were to desolate, would you, too? Does that acquit you? Oh, well, mercy on us! You talked twenty-eight minutes and kept talking to SYRIZA. Will you tell us what you're doing? Are you running the country, our homeland, on the basis of what SYRIZA or the previous ones did, who were government? So, your program supports it on the basis of the facts of the past? Don't you have any fresh things to tell us? Jesus, that is, really! In the committees, here you move the finger on the previous guys and you do the same. That's why we're saying you're SYRIZA's continuity in everything - don't say it again, you know - Macedonian, illegal immigrants, sales out, PPC, public property, everything. You're the same and unchanging. You came here, you preached us twenty-eight minutes, you don't feel sorry for us. There's not only SYRIZA here, there's other people. Are we asking to substantiate all these measures you take and the answer is that SYRIZA did them? Let me tell you something, Mr. Hatzidakis, about the dumps you're going to do for the trash. For the moment - you know - you convinced me, you said that the islands that sink with garbage, what are we going to do with it? Should we leave them? In fact, if you were to come here and give us a solution that: "What we are doing is temporary, we will build twenty-three new dumps, because we are drowning in the trash, but from now on, at the same time, the government is taking care and creates a waste recycling plant, which is also energy generation", if you say that you are doing that, we would applaud you and we would not say "funny!" Do this on a temporary basis and let's do the waste recycling plant. Because we are in Greece, Mr Minister, and no more permanent. There will be landfills, seeing and smelling and polluting the environment, because we have been living here for a lifetime! I will tell you something else, because I have been following the process early today in the Greek Parliament. In closing her conversation and her speech, Mrs. Bakoyannis, what did she say to us? That's where I really stayed. He said to us: 'This is green growth'. Mrs Bakoyannis speaks of the New Democracy and of SYRIZA - not to offend SYRIZA, since you have him everywhere handy - for green development. To tell Mrs Bakoyannis - I don't know if she is going only Athens - Chania - Athens - to go for a walk to Halkidiki in Skouria and talk to us about green growth that has destroyed everything there. Is this a green development of the New Democracy too? Because Mr. Hatzidakis is very sensitive about what we will say to our children and how we will raise our children, to ask - since you are concerned - the parents' children in Halkidiki in Skouria, where we have the highest percentages of diseases, their kidneys and so on, how many new diseases we have, of what is water in and not just water. Aren't you worried about these kids? Just for the Lecturer? So hypocrisy goes too far, and if SYRIZA came with a surplus of what you said to him, you came with a surplus of hypocrisy and irony in here, Mr Hatzidakis! We are going downwards because you have been used to us lately bringing us legislative acts. Why? Because of pandemic. And suddenly you bring us a tanks here, a visible thing with a hundred thirty articles, an incrediblely big bill - and dangerous for our country - and now the pandemic has gone for a walk. So long you have invoked the pandemic and brought us the legislative acts. Let me say one last thing, because the bill has been analysed very well by our rapporteur. It is not accelerating the process, Mr Hatzidakis, when you abolish substantial environmental safeguards. Not everything's on the acceleration altar. I speed up, but I'm destroying? It is not a speeding up process, when you set a few days to check a dossier, when de facto it is not possible for the other co-responsible services to comply with it. It is not, therefore, an acceleration in the process when you are rushing to abolish cheap lignite, while you have not developed alternative energy sources. These - you know - these are weird things. And how much is the environment protected by the establishment of many sites, as I said before, transhipment of waste, common landfills? I'm going to other issues, because I have to run, Mr. President. Let's go to the economy. And I always support what I hear here. So, on the day before, I heard the Prime Minister of the country a few days ago, Mr Mitsotakis, telling us here - I don't know, no one told him that, he didn't give him the importance and the weight he should give him, the channels, of course, where to spoil your toddler - that the recession would be deep and great. He said it here, from this Step on the sanctuary of the Parliament, that the recession in the economy will be deep and great. We don't ask journalists or commentators. He's the Prime Minister of the country. What's he doing? Does he describe the reality, what's coming? Is there solutions? How will it counteract the recession in the deep and great that comes and unemployment, does it have to tell us? What's he telling us? Conclusion? Conclusions are all drawn. You're not ruling to draw conclusions. Aren't you telling all the truth how to rely on tourism? Tell us one, two, three points on how to support tourism. We made suggestions to you. President Velopoulos dedicated half of his speech the other day with proposals for tourism, how to support the Greek hotelier, support to farmers, support to farmers, support to fishermen. We told you about the primary sector. I now go to your friends, because from today we may have come out of the quarantine, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and Greek women and Greeks who are watching us, but we now have the new violin of the mask. After we came to the conclusion that the mask is compulsory, so we gave it where we should have been assigned to print us and to make masks. Remember, of course, that no matter how much you wear your masks, your look will betray you for what you intend to do. We proposed that you give the masks to Greek women and Greek women for free. Once the mask is compulsory on some points - it is compulsory to wear - give it free of charge. How can it be free? It can be done. Velopoulos told you yesterday: in the supermarket, you go, you shop in the supermarket, the mask for free of charge for the family. Not everyone can afford to give 1,90 euros, which I gave to a pharmacy yesterday - not to say where I gave them - to the airport where I arrived. One single use mask of 1,90 euros? Four family, eight euros a day? Four times eight, thirty two, 300 euros, 250 euros, 260 euros? Where will the money get it? Free the mask in supermarkets, and at the end of the day the state keeps from taxation in the supermarket and goes equal boats, equal waters, and we serve the world. There are ways, the issue is that there should be a sense of mood and a sense of mind, so that we can move forward with all this. Very quickly a comment on our relationship with the Turks and Erdogans, because we very much fear that the days that will follow will be very difficult for us. The more Turkey is sinking into the economic crisis and the more Erdogan is sinking into the health crisis, the more likely it will be to increase its provocativeness towards Greece. That's what you're going to tell me in which country it could be. What country in the world would the helicopter carrying a country's Minister of National Defence and we would pass it on to the fine letters buried and low, always low, always subtle, always not to provoke, like the Turkish- Libyan Pact that swallowed Kastelorizo, if you remember, a while ago? We've placed our hopes only on Huffar. We're not doing anything, we're waiting for Huffar to do the dirty work. Don't make the political crime go to The Hague with these minds and with that behavior you have in Greek-Turkish, because we're going to get rid of it. I am going to another point which concerns all of us, but also you, Mr President, because you were there yesterday. It's great what we live, the works and the days of Metarakis. Works and days, Mateatakis South. Unbelievable. We are two months closed in our homes and we have let Mitarakis go around and he has done "Mamarkis - Travel" - I'm sorry to say so - and he carries the illegal immigrants right and left. It's inconceivable what we're living for! Mr President, yesterday, in a hypocrisy cress, we saw you cut red ribbons in Moria, as if you were inaugurating Hilton! Are you serious? At the place of grief, misery and health bomb, where thirty thousand illegal immigrants are stacked all these years, did you go and cut ribbons on a communication show? I am sorry, but all you are doing is hypocrisy, civilisation and racism against the Greeks, Minister and Mr President, because you were there yesterday too. You inaugurated Moria's C.T.D., says, a health structure, and you cut ribbons, and you yelled at the channels that you were recorded, to see what you do, what good you do all do. Great stuff! Mr. Mitaris hasn't been gathering since this morning! I've seen him in fourteen channels. He's been talking all morning and he's been telling how good he's doing. Unbelievable! However, the same channels that applaud you did not show yesterday the course of protest. I was terrified when I saw in the video the images that come from the islands, thousands of twenty-five, screaming as if they were in the jungle lying on the ground, protesting about the coronary. These images no one shows them, the images, which show that you have turned our diamonds, our islands, our wealth. You lie to the Greeks that illegal immigrants who came through a coronary have no right to asylum. You're lying because you're normally making progress in giving asylum to some of them. Let me tell you one last thing: you said that ten thousand deportations would be made. How many have happened? Come here, Mr. Mitarakis, and tell us how many deportations you've made. Leave the ribbons and delivery of illegal immigrants to the right and left inland and mainland and to come here to the National Representation to inform the parties about how many deportations you have made. None of you have. Twenty? Seventeen? Thirty? That's how many you've done. You should know that this will get you into harm. Greece is first throughout Europe in asylum performance! First! This is a report by EUROSTAT on 27 April 2020. It's not ours. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Eighteen thousand sixteen thousand illegal immigrants have taken asylum! Look out, I'm talking about asylum, not all the people who walk around like this. Because they're walking around. What is the role of mayors? We saw the Mayor of Samos - I say it openly - and the Mayor of Chios has become pawns of the government and from where they were first in the fight for their islands and against the structures, now it is all honey - milk. Something's changed! The mayors of Samos and Chios are offended! Something's happened. I don't know what happened. Don't talk to us about closed structures. From the Serres Key go to Sidirokastro, ten kilometers away, and shop. Whenever they want, they come in whenever they want to. In Murias of Kilkis County now I talk to you - the time is 17.50' - people have arrived this afternoon, eight coaches with twenty-six people each and people go there. And eight more coming. If you enter the information website now, you will see Greek citizens lying out of the hotels, so that the coaches don't pass. This is happening in Greece, in normal Greece and not in the media! I'm coming to something last. You're eight and a half months government and you're all invoking the polls. What's up, guys? We said, pals, the pollsters, we said Kim Young, 60% New Democracy. You do well, but eight months you run the country. What kind of premiere is this, guys, with the polls? Eight and a half months you rule the place and every week we have polls. And: what good the Prime Minister is doing, and: what good the New Democracy is. Eight and a half months? You're running the country? We have an economic and health crisis, we're in a recession. We want proposals on how to get the Greeks out of the recession, how to open the shops, how to escape unemployment. So leave the polls and the "friends" on the channels. We do not run the country with paid polls and your canalarchs!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u227	Mr Heta, because you have made a report about Moria and you have addressed me, and I will answer you. Mr Mitarakis' visit yesterday to Mytilini, at Moria's reception and identification centre, made it possible to begin its organized decongestion, as was done yesterday. I escorted him, too. We didn't go there for the structure of the primary health committee now. It was done at the expense of the High Commissioner and with the sole purpose of protecting the world, which is within the structures, the reception and identification centre. Today we are talking there are about eighteen thousand people. You realize that helps decongested Mytilini Hospital. Because if the tests are carried out in the hospital, the hospital staff, as well as the patient relatives, are at risk of carrying the potential virus into the city. So it was a predetermined structure. But neither did I nor Mr. Metarakis know they would have ribbons there, etc. We went for another purpose. So when this happened, we were told that the structure of the High Authority would happen and with joy the people put a ribbon there. Nobody went to start up there. They just called us, we attended, we went to structure, and the world was very happy. Although some extreme elements - but not on the left this time - were subsequently attempted to organize a protest to disapprove Mr Mitarakis, at the end of the day those who tried to disapprove of the world were disapproved. There were about tens of them who tried to disapprove. It was therefore quite symptomical that the opening of this structure with doctors, organized on that day, was made there. If you go, you'll see it and envy it. Come and go to Mytilini - if you want, I'll accompany you - you and anyone else from the party to see them and see how good it works and what a great offer it is for the place. Thank you very much. Mr Georgios Amyras has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u228	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, first of all I would like to make two technical remarks. I think we need plexiglass here too. You know, a sneeze of yours will send me to the agonizing quarantine for two weeks. That's the first. Secondly, the lighting in plenary today one goes up and one goes down. I don't know what's going on. So I now come to my speech. I cannot comment, dear Parliamentary Representatives of the Greek Solution - five years I am a Member of Parliament, I am not a Member for many years - that the same terminology of racism against Greeks and of illegal immigrants used the unspeakable memory of Golden Dawn. Watch out for that. Greek Solution with Golden Dawn. Watch out for that. Let's go later now. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today through a plexiglass, that is, under different circumstances... [[Noise - protests from the ward of Greek Solution]] Mr President, please impose the order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u229	Don't interrupt, ladies and gentlemen. This is a crisis and it is not about you personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u230	What happened? Did it bother you or thank you for likened to the Golden Dawn? What exactly is going on? I see you so excited. So sit down, please on your eggs and let me talk. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today in plenary today in different circumstances through the plexiglass. However, these conditions are much better than those experienced by most European countries, which are immersed in national mourning with thousands of dead people. So we here, thanks to the reflexes of the Mitsotakis Government and in collaboration with the scientific community, quickly took the critical decisions so that we could remove the health risk and not jeopardise the lives of Greeks and Greeks. Greece is now internationally seen as a model country. From where the black sheep was, it suddenly happened - but after labor and change of governance in that country - the example to be imitated. So I, too, feel the need to thank from this Step the first-line fighters, the doctors, nurses and nurses, the injured, paramedics, police officers, firefighters, administrative staff and public officials, who, in time, turned the paper bureaucratic public into a digital public. Thanks above all to all Greeks and all Greek women who heard the government, they trusted the experts and with their conduct in practice showed a sense of responsibility for their fellow man. Let us keep this pandemic, this cooperation and this broad alliance of citizens with the institutions. This is goodwill coming out of this pandemic crisis. We have heard this morning say, mostly on the side of SYRIZA, but also on other opposition parties: 'Remove the bill' and 'democracy is in quarantine'. Who says that? Where have you seen these, ladies and gentlemen, especially you at SYRIZA? To cancel, he says, the bill debate. Because they have learned to do little, very little, in very long time. Oh, no! Ladies and gentlemen, we here do not have the comfort of time, in order to meditate eternally, to be in a Zen situation, to postpone what should have been done from the day before tomorrow. After all, what's this bill doing? It incorporates Community directives into national legislation. I have heard and read that the SYRIZA MEPs will put a question against the Greek Government on this bill in the European Parliament. It will never happen in European times that Members of a party denounce their Government because it incorporates decisions, directives and good practices of the European Council! This is really unexplained. I cannot leave any of what SYRIZA colleagues have said. Let us look at your own progress, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, on environmental issues in the past few years. On SYRIZA, we had a policy to integrate the use of lignite against renewable energy sources. On SYRIZA, the country entered "till the ears" - especially PPC - into the lignite. PPC arrived on the brink of bankruptcy, due to the huge amounts that it had to pay on the pollutant stock exchange. Should I say about renewable energy in SYRIZA? Can PPC, the largest company in the country, own only 7% of the RES market? Should I tell you about the dumps in the Ionian and South Aegean? Should I say the fines and sentences by Europe at the expense of the country? Should I say about the plastic bag? We were here all voting for the environmental charge measure for the use of plastic bags. But, unfortunately, this law on SYRIZA was perforated, it was so rough that the scientists found the way to make money on it, not paying the end, increasing the weight of the bag. What do we do now with the environmental bill? We are doing things that should have been done for many years, for decades now, I would say. What happened to environmental authorisations for RES? In fact, too many colleagues have said so. Eight years to get an EIA licence? What did that mean? It meant that the country remained locked and bound to lignite, minerals, pollution. Now that we are going up to a hundred and fifty days a year of licensing, SYRIZA's colleagues, who should be flogging the government if they really wanted to be environmentally friendly, asking for even shorter deadlines. Let's talk about the protected areas. We in Epirus have a protected area in Tzoumerka, we have the Pambotida basin, i.e. the Ioannina lake, we also have the protected area of the estuary of the Kalama river. So let's see how these management bodies operated, which people may have been in the mood, but they didn't have the resources or the means. If, with binoculars, they found one going with the farmer and throwing a ball in the river, they had no power of investigation. He had to call the police, get a car, come in after two hours. Say hello to the plank. That's what's changing. Now all these agencies are not being abolished. They shall be replaced by a single body. They will have revenue from both the European Union and the state budget - that is very important - and, moreover, they will be managed through ALP procedures. Who doesn't want that? Also, for the NATURA areas, there was a lot of talk, of course, of the ignorance of many anti-population MPs. Can we not see what kind of mess the NATURA regions are? Do we not all agree that most of them are abandoned, without any surveillance, without any possibility of combating arbitrary and imprisonment? That's a change. Also, for the plastic bag - I am trying to be quick and brief, Mr President, because the speaking time has been reduced and I omit some figures, which I shall mention tomorrow - I shall put a question to the Ministry of the Environment, to find out, as from 1 January 2018, how much money has been put into effect in the special fund, where it has been and finally to report. With this draft law, ladies and gentlemen, it is being dealt with bureaucratically and effectively in the management of waste. Is it possible that the islands of the southern Aegean and the Ionian Sea may, in the middle of a tourist season, present garbage mountains? Is that what we want? The fact that it is becoming a single body involving regions and all municipalities in the single management of waste is not a positive step? It's all over the world. As long as, for the housing densities, from this Step again, when the bill had come from SYRIZA, I told the relevant Minister, Mr Famello, that he would go down to the Council of State and I was unfortunately or luckily verified. I heard a moment ago a SYRIZA MEP saying "for the settlements to follow the decisions of the Council of State". He was pulling our fingers! But he opposed his own party! Of course, we are following the decisions of the Council of State and that is why we are treating the problems that have arisen. Finally, I should like to say something - nobody said it - about the 'EXCONTINU' programme. We'll have the possibility, sixty thousand houses on an annual basis, to upgrade energy. It's a small and very big step. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is environmentally friendly. It removes the obstacles that kept Greece in the "green" policy and I invite you to go up to the "green" train, not to stay behind and, of course, I will vote in favour of the bill with pride. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u231	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u232	Mr. Heta, you asked for the floor. I'm likely about that match. You have the floor for a minute, to clarify that you have nothing to do with it, obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u234	Let me reply, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u235	In the nine months that we're in here, we play with open cards and political terms. Dirty blows we don't attempt on anyone. I would remind you, therefore, to the very good fellow Member that he, in his ideas, may not have the same intensity, if you like, that the denominator is not so national, because now he is very neo-democratic, and a few months ago - I would remind him - he was in the 'dried' Potami, which played a decisive role in selling our Macedonia and passing the Prespecies Agreement. The River did its work...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u236	You're taking it elsewhere now. You want to respond to the expression alone and differentiate, that you must not be identified.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u237	I'll finish, I'll finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u238	The others don't need to.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u239	So after the river’s work came to New Democracy by translating and doing well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u240	I'll answer, I can't!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u241	Mr. Amyras is looking after his expressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u242	Whatever has bothered me, I'm withdrawing it. So his current Chief, from the Step of the House, is the one who talked about hammering and that he will be proud when the children of whom come here will go to Greek schools, and if they are good students, to keep the Greek flag. Listen. These issues are important to us. Our motto is "First Greece, first Greeks". Mr President, Mr Amyras, you may disagree with our beliefs, you may disagree with our positions. But please don't ever dare Mr. Velopoulos, who you've known for years, me as a journalist for twenty-six years, the economist, Mr. Villardos, the colonel, Mr. Mylonakis, and the other members of the Greek Solution, compare us with these violations, with those "uganas" that were in here. I want you, please, to erase it, because I know it's not your phrase. You may disagree with what we say, it's not bad, but you can't give us such descriptions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u243	Well, she didn't match you with the Golden Dawn. He said the phrase is like...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u244	The comparison, Mr President, is a slap in the face. What comparison is this?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u245	You gave clarification, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u246	Are you serious? Is that a comparison? What do we have to do with it? We have arguments, we have a programme, we have proposals, we have an excellent presence in Parliament and it compares us with these violations? Mr. Amyras, I think it was your fault. I'd like you to withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u247	Good, good. Let's give Mr. Amyras his clarification. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u248	Mr President, I will not give any clarification, I will put things in place. First of all, my dear colleague, I do not know whether you would have - how to say it - the political force to resign from a Member as I did when I disagreed with my Potami Party on the Skopje issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u249	I spoke to the party, not to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u250	I voted against the Skopje agreement and resigned from parliamentarians. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u251	Do you see, then, that the debate is expanding for no reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u252	Wait a minute, let me answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u253	This provision of the Rules of Procedure must be complied with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u254	So, Mr. Heta, when you put my name in your mouth, please be careful. One of the prisoners. Second, with what I said, I gave you a hint. I told you: "Be careful, because the phrase about deliver, illegal immigrants" and so on, others used it. I told you to keep an eye on your phrases.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u255	Mr. Amyras, that's enough. We do not now need to expand on the issue of Skopje.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u256	We don't expand, but let me say one last thing. It is not yours, sir, that you say to me "our Macedonia and Macedonia". Macedonia belongs to all of us...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u257	So you see? We're done, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u258	This style that brings little to populism, please be careful!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u259	Mrs. Kafantaris has the floor for SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u260	Good evening. Otherwise I would start my position today, but I cannot give any answers to the Minister, because we heard him about an hour ago talking about a blind party. I guess you said, Minister, that it characterises us as passion. I'm asking a question. Blind party passion is the position of the Citizens' Counsel, with concrete suggestions and criticism in this draft law? Are environmental organizations, university departments in our country opposed to this draft law, with concrete proposals and concrete criticism? [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] On the other hand, Mr Minister, you have not prevented any facts from being distorted. Allow me, I refer to the communication from the Network of Presidents of the Management Bodies. You said that the agencies said that there should be a centralised system, that something new could be created. You took a fragmented piece, when the Network of Management Bodies Presidents says that the thirty-six entities on the one hand and on the other hand that it would be good, at the Ministry level, for there to be a central body that controls or rather coordinates the activities of the bodies. Another thing you said, another thing that the Presidents' announcement says. You spoke about GDP, renewable environmental conditions. You have brought examples from Europe. First of all, I would like to say that it is one of the photographic provisions and it also refers to the "ELLENIC CRYSOS", but on the other hand we compare the European countries. We have to say something, Minister. There are control mechanisms - you have often mentioned the European countries - which every four, five years control implementation. Is that what's happening in Greece? You have even referred to mining in the NATURA regions. With the institutional framework, introduced by this draft law and licensing procedures, times and all, I come and ask this. Who will really control the procedures? Are there any control mechanisms in place when, for example, your government's first moves, for example, when it took over, were the abolition - not to call it a substantial deterioration - of environmental inspectors? One more thing that was heard in the committees, that today the Municipality of Athens had a meeting on the subject of the MD in the center of Athens. You have rightly withdrawn it - we will see what will come - and the city council has been abolished. Therefore, SYRIZA, who in the committees said the Municipality of Athens did not know about this presidential decree. Now, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing a global crisis. At a time when we are experiencing this global crisis - and I am talking about pandemic - and at a conference in Germany, the Secretary-General of the United Nations Gutiéres finds out that the pandemic of the new coronary reveals that our societies and economies are sensitive to crises, while fully exposing the inequalities threatening progress in sustainable development objectives, in fact calling for a green recovery from the pandemic - this is the international landscape, this is the world community, as expressed by the Secretary-General of the UN - you are coming here and dismantling environmental legislation. While, for example, because we are also in the year of biodiversity in 2020, biodiversity is fighting climate change, you are coming here and you are undermining environmental protection. You bring a bill, which you call modernisation of environmental legislation, but it is a regression, and it is not a blind passion for Kafantari, the MP of SYRIZA. This is what the Citizens' Counsel, the state's official advisor, has a specific institutional role in the way of poor legislation. You don't modernise. Regression brings environmental legislation. In fact, it's a bill undemocratic. We have denounced it, not just for the procedure. How many articles began and how many of them came to be discussed here - sixty - thirty - one hundred - or the consultation of the bodies that did not take place or all of this process. It is undemocratic because it interferes with any participatory process and this is very important and it is demonstrated by how you legislate in relation to the management bodies. It is a coup, as we say, how you did at work in the middle of a pandemic, abolishing the increase in lower wages. You are now coming to ecological, environmental. It is an ideological policy of the New Democracy, a continuation of the development law that we lived in last November. Here I will mention attributes that the Central Board of Environmental Licensing is becoming a Development Planning Board. The Head of the Directorate for Environmental Policy participates in it, but does not vote. Representatives from development ministries shall participate. It is not a contradiction between the environment and development. For us there are two concepts that can harmoniously coexist and move on. But for you, unfortunately, the environment is an obstacle to development, as you mean it. There is a violation of European directives, regulations, constitution. We've been through it many times. The Citizens' Counselor told the Committees. They have also been asked today to the principle of constitutionality. I would just like to say, however, that undermining the consultation and collection of opinions is a violation of both Directive 2011/92 and Directive 43/92, as well as the spirit of the Archus Convention. It has many photographic devices, and there are also in the protection zones the living conditions you enter. Here we would like to note that land uses are a tool for urban planning and urban planning. I come back to the issues of management bodies, which are very important to workers for 13 years. With insecurity and lasting renewals, no solution is given. Are you generally talking about SAPA, but with what moleculosis, with what criteria? Let me also say, too, the very serious issue, that nature protection is weakened, but local development is weakened, because the functioning of management bodies was a mild model of development with an environmental benefit to local society, because there was great cooperation with local enterprises, with municipalities, etc.... You give this procedure, the abolition of the opinion, a free one for major projects. That's very important. I come here to talk about the RES included in this draft law, which is imported without planning, without a spatial planning for the RES. The European Commission report for 2019 specifically reports on Greece and the important role played by the actors in protecting the NATURA regions. Finally, I should like to say about the new National Plan for Energy and Climate, which you have tabled, your 'green' programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u261	In short, Mrs. Kafantari, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u262	Just a moment, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u263	It's been two minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u264	What can I say about the defoliation process, without any specific design, when it is increasingly gaining natural gas, which is noted, is a fossil fuel in the logic that you entered? Let us not say, of course, that even within the draft law, when you show as the dominant energy savings and energy efficiency of buildings, you carry by one, a year and a half the obligation under the law to transpose a Community directive the introduction of new buildings with zero energy consumption. I will not say much about waste, because other colleagues have said it. I will say, however, that unfortunately the 'green' face of the New Democracy is crumbling into this bill. You had, Minister, a deposit from the SYRIZA government, ours in the environment with possible flaws, with possible delays, what is to be corrected. No one's perfect. However, this legacy that our country has accepted and favourable comments from the European Union, for example, on the suspension of forest maps, which, from 1%, reached around 44% of valid definitive maps, you come back and go back again. The country's back. He's going back to the environment. Let you be characterized by an elementary - let me - seriousness, to really prove that this 'green' face of yours is not just hypocritical in words. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u265	Thank you very much. Good evening, good week and good month. Until the Vima is ready and Mr. Nikos Karathanasopoulos comes from the Communist Party of Greece, I would like to tell you that I was following the debate from the office and a colleague compared the Greek Solution, which is my party, with the Golden Dawn. Honestly, I'm very sorry, because in the eight, nine months that we've been here, I don't think we've given you that picture. It is good to avoid labels, designations and to speak with arguments. I'm saying that for everyone. Thank you very much. Honestly, I was very sad, and I had him very much appreciated, and I still have him, it doesn't change anything. Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Party, speaks for six minutes, because your President also spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u266	Thank you very much, Mr President. The environment, ecosystems, mountain tumors, flora, fauna, cavalry, shores, as well as tools such as land planning and land use, or will serve the people's needs or the profitability of monopolies. Thirdly, there is, unfortunately, no and will not be discovered. From this point of view, the draft environmental law, which we are debating today, is another organic link in the adaptation of environmental legislation to the needs of the profitability of monopolistic groups, continuing politics, taking over from the previous governments. So their basic targeting is clear and cannot be covered. This aim is no more than accelerating and facilitating investment, notwithstanding the effects on the population, on the environment, on forests, on ecosystems as a whole. So it is no coincidence that the various government policies over time in the environment were implementing the BSE proposals and the other employers' organizations. It is precisely a year ago that BSE has been indicated to the government - and today - to what it needs to do to speed up environmental authorisations, so that there can be more investment. The BSE crisis demands that governments implement it. The draft law proves that popular rights and environmental protection run counter to the profitability of capital. People's right to recreation and use the environment is shattered in front of the need for capital to ensure profit. For capitalist investment, the environment and its protection are costs and their permanent long-term aim is to minimise any costs needed to limit the environmental impact, thus also to protect public health. Capitalism and environmental protection are incompatible things. The draft law also shows that the high protection of the environment, which means that the environmental sensitivity of both the New Democracy and SYRIZA, is hypocritical. The draft law confirms it for the government. The Government of New Democracy, as well as SYRIZA, accepts the liberalisation of electricity. They accept the 'green' investments. But SYRIZA, too, has a government. Will we forget his attitude to the Greek? Will we forget his attitude to the Race Cyber, which extended the operation to a sanitary bomb or his attitude to the "ELLENIKIKI CRYSOS"? Such issues are not forgotten. So environmental protection and so-called 'green' development are being exploited as a tool for new investments and for the acceleration of capitalist development. Here we have to point out that all the bodies involved in the public interests and environmental protection have been placed in the face of this bill and are asking the government to withdraw it. Of course, the Government of New Democracy has found a legal framework updated by the previous government, which, in turn, has remembranced the legal framework of the previous governments. In this respect, therefore, the previous government updated the management bodies of the protected areas, invented the patent of settlements on forest maps and prepared a set of changes, but it did not have time to testify and the New Democracy now comes to present them. So, I come to specific issues in the first chapter, there are a number of provisions which simplify and speed up the licensing process by imposing suffocating time on the Services to respond, and that is to say privatising the checks which have so far been carried out by public bodies. The privatization of controls is, of course, the continuation of the long-term privatization policy. Of course, the major part of us in this case is not the profit of some days, which will speed up licensing, which is, of course, a profit for investors, for large-scale companies. The main question is that, in combination with other provisions, it is possible to place, even more easily in more areas - even in protected areas - projects at the expense of ecosystems and the high environmental value of areas and, secondly, to implement, without much of the necessary preventive measures to protect the environment and the health of the people's layers, which are particularly expensive for capital. The second chapter comes to facilitate - this is also the heart of the bill - the financial interests it serves, namely to facilitate investment in the RES, which is the sole aim of the profitable way out for the accumulated capital of the groups, leading to the environmental destruction of mountainous volumes with wind turbines and photovoltaics and a huge burden on the popular blocks due to the evacuation of electricity costs. So these choices are organically integrated into the European Union's policy for the liberalisation of electricity, for the green development that has been followed by all the previous governments. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In this way, even in NATURA such activities are allowed to be installed and, of course, licensing is confirmed. Here we must stress that it is not a matter of concern to protect the environment that the development of the RES, on the part of governments, today and the previous ones, is not a matter of concern. Their interest is profit. That is why they prioritise wind parks and photovoltaics, as opposed to hydroelectric projects, which of course can serve much better and are renewable sources too. From this point of view, it is no coincidence that the electricity produced by the RES is very expensive. Also, the installation of spatial planning sites for photovoltaic and wind parks is at the expense of the environment and its protection. In the third chapter, of course, we have the issues for the management of protected areas. The existence of management bodies has so far not ensured the protection and development of the protected areas. It created an additional mechanism to serve different companies, groups and also specific NGOs, as management bodies were exploited as instruments for privatising environmental sectors, which should have been the responsibility of the state with the competent authorities. Thus, the establishment of the OFYPEKA body is even more decisive in terms of the commercialisation and privatisation of environmental sectors. A similar logic also governs the zones within protected areas with these uses, which allows the Zones of Protected Areas. In other words, uses can be defined within protected areas and almost everything can be allowed in terms of business use. That is exactly what we need to see about the abolition of national parks and their renamed national parks. Substantially, the protection of the national parks and the term "National Parks" can also be developed to the cores of these national parks, such as mountain tourism, shelters, forest villages and a number of other issues. Of course, it is clear that the whole of this bill is against the environment and in satisfying people's needs. The JRC insists that this bill should be withdrawn, while the government insists that it be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u267	Please complete, Mr. Karathanasopou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u268	We, as a JRC, will put forward a proposal for a roll-call vote in principle and for a number of articles, which point precisely to this wholehearted attack on the environment and its protection, but also to facilitating business activity in it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u269	Yes, sir. Thank you very much. Mr. Janakopoulos, you have asked for the floor. To speak first two speakers - or even three - and then to speak, please, too, so that two parliamentary representatives are not close to the series?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u270	I have no problem with that, Mr President. Should I speak after Mr. Simopoulos or after Mr. Mylonakis? I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u271	Good. Mr Simopoulos will speak first and then Mr Mylonakis will speak. Would you like to talk to Mr. Economou later?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u272	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u273	Good. Efstratios Simopoulos from New Democracy has the floor for six minutes. Mr. Simopoulos also came in from Thessaloniki!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u274	Mr. Janakopoulos, thank you. Forty-eight hours, the SYRIZA MP had me the "sites"! So, thank you so much!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u275	The Thessalonians have sense of humor!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u276	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, until I entered this morning I divided people who deal with the environment or most Greek citizens into three categories, namely environmentalists, environmentalists - in which I put some 'environmental talimbs' - and, of course, those who are interested in the environment. A fourth category emerged in this Chamber, the former SYRIZA ministers, who were responsible. Of course, the SYRIZA rapporteur in this category plays a key role in this bill, which was of course also the Deputy Minister for the Environment. In his speech today, but also in the committee, which I heard from the television, he actually did not mention the bill at all. He made a speech full of words with charge:'services', 'contracts', 'dismissal'. In fact, he conquered the government by primarily trying, like the other ministers of SYRIZA, but at different tones, to hide their own shortcomings for five years and, of course, to hide the fact that the government is going forward with this bill. This is indeed a pro-environmental government, unlike the previous one, which, due to ideology and mainly incompetence, was unenvironmental. You must be able to produce a project. What happens with forest maps or land registers, with obvious errors, with the impossibility of serving the citizen, is also incompetent. This incapacity created Matty, this inability created the shame of waste. The PPPs have stopped. I myself listened years ago - I was in Athens - to the radio the SYRIZA executive - who I hear is going to protest outside the House too - to say that the Left raises the waste better. We saw how the Left is picking up the waste, with the crap he created all over the country. But how can an incompetent government be in favour of the environment when it cannot have minimum rules and a framework of civil protection? In this respect, the present government gave its examinations and it succeeded. "I am interested in the environment" means "I am and capable of protecting it". You couldn't. You're incapable. In addition, when there was a problem, the first one they did was a committee or a water management plan. Problem with water shortages in Thessaloniki? 'We will make a water management plan'. Problem with the red tide in the Thermaikos? "We'll do the Thermaikos Management Agency." What did the Thermaikos Management Body do to this day? Nothing. Of course, there are bodies that are trying. The fact is that they cannot make programming contracts, it is a fact that they cannot make memoirs of cooperation, it is a fact that they must have central planning and yes, with private individuals. Yeah, and private. The state doesn't leave the agency. He's putting individuals in his service so he can move a lot faster. That's what he's doing with the land register, that's what he's doing with the forest maps, that's what he did with a lot of other bills. And yes, when there are local interests, which keep issues low or do not go ahead, the central administration must be called upon to resolve them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I certainly want nine minutes, as it was from the beginning, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u277	What am I supposed to do? Seven was in the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u278	But what the state and investors need to do now is indeed to inform citizens and local communities. Many times they don't do it and let professional environmentalists do it. It is an obligation for investors, an obligation for the state to inform local communities. I now come to the subject of IPTO. I would remind you that billions of investments are needed and I remind colleagues from Thessaloniki that the lack of these investments has caused victims. People died in Thessaloniki because the cables were not underground. These investments must be made. It takes five billion. How are these investments going to be? Tomorrow we'll talk about all the articles, one by one. That is where we will truly highlight the very positive articles of this bill. In my opinion, the government must go further and more bold. He's got to bring a bill for the sanctuary. We've got the altar completely untapped. It is not a matter of the Ministry of the Environment, it is a matter of another Ministry in principle. He has to come, as other bills that have created large areas have come. Ladies and gentlemen, for years I have expressed these views. I have just been given the opportunity to express these views from the Step of the House. I am very happy that I have been given the opportunity to support this very reformist and promoted bill. Finally, let the opposition not talk about society. Yes, they represent a part of society. I couldn't agree more. But it's not the whole society. Many times, through their political speech, I feel that they are expressing the 'taliban' of the environment rather than society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr Simopoulos. Until the Step is ready, Mr. Antonis Mylonakis will also be prepared from the Greek Solution. I will become more pressing about time, because we have topical questions then.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u280	Because Mr. Mylonakis has the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u281	Mr. Mylonakis is so capable that in six minutes he'll have said everything. So, Mr. Heta, let go. Mr. Mylonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr President. I'm not upsetting you. I'll talk in time, eight and a half, nine minutes. First of all, I do not want, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to be sad - Mr President - about what some people say. It doesn't matter what someone says about you. I refer to Mr George Amyras, my good colleague. It matters who says it. And when you listen to Mr. Yiorgos Amyras, who from Xeropotamos was dug up in the New Democracy, and now he's making the wicked man, all right, we'll be glad of him for a word he said, the world is not gone. Besides, the mud...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u283	Now, however, he is not present and it is not right to speak that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u284	Mr. Economou, that's what I wanted to point out. You're absolutely right. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u285	If she were there.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u286	It's over, Mr. Mylonaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u287	If she were there. I didn't ask him to leave. He should normally be present. When we talk, ladies and gentlemen, about the Greek Parliamentary spokesman who made a criticism - he did not swear - on the issue of illegal immigration and how the government manages it, I do not think he should have taken the issue where Mr Amyras went. These are criminal mistakes and these must be stressed, whether or not they are gone. If she were here to hear them. Minister, I would like to take the floor from what Mrs Bakoyannis said, an experienced parliamentarian, that 'we disagree on a lot with the opposition, but we have to agree on it.' I would like to ask you, Minister, as I will ask, Mr Famello, who is here and listens to us: Mr Famelle, when the Chinese of STATE GRID got 24% of IPTO you were, I think, a government. Isn't that right? Why did you give management to the Chinese?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u288	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u289	Of course they have the management. Look at the law on management. In fact, they also have a majority on the board of directors. Mr. Janakopoulos, they have the majority. Mr. Femelle, I think, if you see it, you'll understand that this is the way it is. After all, if you have any objections, then you will tell us. Minister, at a recent visit by the President of China I think the board of directors of the 'STATE GRID' has seen you, haven't they? He saw you. What did he ask you? Because what he wants is to get the majority of shares after he has the management. You guys think that, because you're honest, you'll admit the criminal error that SYRIZA made to give management to the Chinese company. That's what he's paying right now. That's why you're obliged now. And you're beginning to say we have to sell, give IPTO a chance to privatize him. To make it clear, the Greek Solution was never against the private initiative. Never. We support the private initiative, the Greek or the foreign entrepreneur, but not the sale of the public-private companies. We can't sell PPC, we can't sell DESFA, which the Spaniards and the Italians have taken. We can't sell the railroads that the Italians have taken for a piece of bread. We can't sell off IPTO later. So that's what we need to see. Is it self-evident - would I ask Mrs Bakoyannis - when ELVO is sold out? Minister, is that self-evident too? This is a company that was blowing life with its assets. I say this, and because Mr Simopoulos was talking about Northern Greece before, I ask: were ELVO's best companies with production lines? Right now, does ELVO have three gold contracts? All the jeeps, ten thousand jeeps of the Greek Army will be fixed by ELVO. In the trucks, in the "Steyr", he'll make wheelchairs. The buses will be fixed by ELVO. So why should foreign companies, Indian, German, Italian and South Africa come to claim, Minister, ELVO? Why now that EAB has entered a class to cut 10% off from the payroll of employees in EAB, that is, the unhealthy, so they have also come down to strike and do not go ahead with the work of the Greek Air Industry? Is this self-evident, Mr. Minister, with the Institute for Geological and Mining Research, the IGM? We'd like an answer. He got into a liquidation process by SYRIZA, not by you. But what did I say before? That criminal mistakes start from here. It's about what we can do to gather. Isn't the advisor of each government in these studies? Why now, where do we have our mineral wealth, to dismantle the IGM? Unless it goes to the Supreme Court too. I don't know what you're going to do. But I think we should, Minister, give them an answer. Is it reasonable, Minister, to make a law to satisfy the company "ELLENIKIKI CHRYSOS"? Parliamentary spokesman, Costas Hetas earlier said and showed pictures of how the environment has become there. How, in other words, are we going to license a mining company now? Mr Simopoulos, because you are also from Thessaloniki, I say this again about you: Why should we authorize a mining company - what are we, Congo? - without having the environmental permits? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I could say too much, but I will not be late, Mr President. Apart from what is happening, some had old fields, which were characterized as forests. Now with the new forest maps and the abolition of the old ones, what happens? There were people, Minister - we have to accept this - who, taking advantage of the fires, went and demarcated a piece of land into the woods, planted trees and have done it theirs. Isn't that happening many times? I think you've said that before, I think we need to make this clear. Another to have a contract by Eleftherios Venizelos or a contract by his grandfather, and not to accept it until now, because the forest map was old and other people, who took advantage of burnt forests, came in, set a huge area with many acres and are now to become dominant of this piece in the woods. And then we'll say how that land got out into the woods! Oh, it's not a forest, it's around - but it's a forest. Well, that's a matter you need to see.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u290	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u291	I shall conclude, Mr President. Also, the salary was five times higher in the position of PPC’s CEO. How did that happen? As magical as PPC has now become a profitable business? Until yesterday he didn't have to buy poles. You're a magician after all, Minister! If you succeeded and made a PPC which a few months ago didn't have to buy poles and now it's profitable, congratulations! The remuneration of members of the Hydrocarbon Company is double. What for? Is there a special reason? I would also like to say one last thing: approving mining licences by means of a simple notification is incomprehensible. That's what you put it right in your mind. Nor is there any need for a permit for waste management, nor is it necessary for a water management licence. With anti-constitutional provisions almost in total, extreme neoliberal perceptions and suspected of a "loud", we call for a Greek solution to withdraw the bill. The Greek Solution is voting against at first. I'll see you in the articles tomorrow. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u292	Thank you, Mr Mylonakis. Everyone has spoken three minutes longer, so one says he has spoken so much, the other has spoken so much, so we can keep track of times. Please don't embarrass me. There is parliamentary scrutiny after that. Respect the rest and respect the colleagues who will stay until late at night.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u293	We had agreed for nine minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u294	Mr. Vlao, we can do this for six. They are capable of saying what they want to say in six minutes. As long as the Stepma is being prepared to speak by the Parliamentary Representative from SYRIZA, let me say that, as you have heard from Mr Karathanasopoulos, a request for a roll-call vote was filed by the Communist Party of Greece, which is to be held tomorrow 5-May 2020 in principle and on Articles 2, 3, 4, 7, 11, 44, 48, 50, 83, 92, 93, 110, 115, 119 of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. Mr. Janakopoulos, you have 12 minutes. You are an excellent lawman - you see I say a lawman, I am not saying a politician - and you can say it, from what I have seen in the shortest time, that I am up here. Mr Dimitrios Janakopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u295	Thank you very much, Mr President. One clarification, first of all, in relation to IPTO, which the previous government managed to maintain at 51% in the control of the Greek government. Because it has been heard before, the management belongs to the Greek State and the Minister is here on behalf of the New Democracy, and he can confirm that. From there on, what the investor retains is specific rights on the basis of the share purchase contract. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, every day that passes, with every new political or legislative initiative taken by the New Democracy, it is confirmed that it is intended for the New Democracy and the Government to transform this unprecedented global crisis into an opportunity to serve specific political objectives, but also to serve economic interests. Unfortunately, you have found an opportunity to speed up and deepen strategic goals of establishing a new state suffocating control regime, public administration and public life, from civil society to the media. The gifts of 20 million in full opacity to large media enterprises are precisely indicative of the perception, but also of the practical governance practices of the New Democracy and of discipline, hostage or even transaction that it has adopted. Of these hostage practices, these practices, which aim precisely at total, suffocating control of public life, did not escape the Greek Parliament of course either. Because today - unfortunately - a shameful precedent was created, with the responsibility of the government majority, with the responsibility of the President of this House, also with the government, which has not explained to us the urgency of today's bill. A shameful precedent for the functioning of Parliament and democracy has therefore been created, because for the first time something has been done, which would make any outside observer shudder. For the first time, we do not have a disagreement on the interpretation of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, we do not have a situation in which Parliament is asked by the government to show tolerance to secondary or three-fold regulations or broad interpretations, but instead we have a procedure in which the plenary is working, without any grounds whatsoever giving rise to any provision in the Rules of Procedure of this House. What happened today? The Conference of Presidents of Parliament, by a majority, decided and ordered that the House should operate under conditions which are not laid down in the Rules of Procedure because it wanted to do so. Do you understand what this means to Parliament's functioning? Do you understand what kind of precedent is being created? From now on, the Conference of Presidents of the Parliament may decide to violate any provision of the Rules of Procedure of the House and not to do so. We in this type of absolute institutional degeneration are not going to allow him. We will highlight the issue, we will highlight it with its intensity and we will strive to prevent the Greek Parliament from being embarrassed by such manipulations. But you also find it an opportunity for a policy for the complete deregulation and restructuring of the labour market, the economy and environmental legislation. In the labour market you have an extreme, class-blocked policy. Workers, by decision of the government, are converted from one day to the other into unemployed employers. The principle of 'half-wage wage' is being introduced. There is no protection against redundancies, contrary to what Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Brutsis claim. There are huge sections of the working population, the so-called "invisible", i.e. seasonal, artists, people who work long-term in terms of part-time work, who are not covered by any of the financial support measures taken by the government, while at the same time in the field of the economy, New Democracy has made this choice: to let the spontaneous movement of recession and the crisis run literally small and medium-sized enterprises. Why don't you give brave support to small and medium-sized enterprises, when there is the economic potential, the liquidity that is guaranteed by the pillow, with which the previous government has betrayed you? Because you have chosen a strategic plan that says that you will take advantage of the crisis as an opportunity for a new, deep restructuring of the Greek economy for the benefit of big businesses and the accumulation of wealth, which will be done through cannibalism just small and medium-sized enterprises that will not withstand this profound recession, which you are preparing with your political insufficiency and inaction. Do you know what happened lately, of course after the pressure exerted by SYRIZA on the Minister of Finance, who told us that the pillow would not be used until after June, if necessary, if support measures are needed? That you did not take the brave forward support package, which we invited you to take to limit the recession, but at the same time you have spent 6 billion on the pillow. The question he's going through is specific: where did this money go? The size of the unreliability of the Minister of Finance arises and is confirmed today, once again, as - look, I do not know if you read the news, now as soon as he saw the light of publicity - it emerged that the Minister of Finance other figures for the recession gave publicity to Greece, 4.7% and other numbers on the recession has been included in the English text, which he sent to the European Commission, where he talks about a recession of 7.9%. So what's the matter with both of these? Is the Greek cutting down, which Mr Staruras shares with Greek journalists, or is the case with what he describes in the English text? Here we will be and you will see that the recession will be scanning. And it will be sweeping because of your own political failure, because of your political choice to satisfy and serve specific economic interests, such as the interests of the President of BSE, your friend. And we're telling you clearly. This recession has been signed by you. But the worst thing is - and I come to the bill - that you are making the judgment an opportunity for global and extreme deregulation and environmental legislation. Because - Mr Hatzidakis, take note - no one denies that there are problems. No one denies that there are bureaucratic burdens resulting from environmental legislation, from heavy licensing procedures, from weaknesses in public administration. However, it is another thing to recognise these problems and try to draw up policies that will solve the problems by maintaining a regulatory framework and it is another thing to try to break down the shorter, completely deregulation environmental legislation under the pretext of the existence of bureaucratic burdens. Because that's what you do today. In other words, you are completely dismantling environmental legislation by invoking bureaucratic burdens. So you make a specific political counter-environmental choice. Make a choice to dissolve environmental legislation, to create environmental and regulatory or deregulation chaos. That's what you do with forest maps. This is what you are doing with the suffocating deadlines in the administration and the introduction of private assessors, who all know that precisely because Greece is a very small market, they have special relations with the major investors. This is what you do with the charismatic arrangements of the company "ELLENIC CRYSOS". This is what you do with the nativeisation of the NATURA regions. This is what you do by abolishing the management bodies of the NATURA regions. The reason is clear, he is specific, he is studied, has nothing to do with an alleged political failure, as a populist reason would like. What you are doing, you do because you want to create a technology of power, so that you can make special arrangements for the service of interests without the limitations of the law and strictly regulated environmental legislation. It's your technology to rule. With this technology you brought the country into destruction in 2010, this technology has been adopted or reintroduced by this bill, but also by a number of other regulations, which have come to Parliament all year round. Because only by deregulation can you serve your friendly business interests. I specifically come to the position of the Minister, who, in order to defend precisely this environmental policy, which he proposes, has resorted to his favourite sport: he has opposed SYRIZA and indeed, in a way that he knows very well, with distortions and lies. Forest maps. What did Mr. Hatzidakis invoked? That there are hundreds of seventy thousand objections. So what do we do? We cancel the forest maps, suspend the process of suspension of forest maps. Why? Because there are objections to forest maps. So, what were you waiting for, Mr. Hatzidakis? That during the 40 years you left the country alone in Europe, without forest maps, there would be no objections to the suspension of forest maps? So instead of coming here and suggest ways to speed up the process, you come and call on the problem, to cancel the great forest maps reform and to be Greece, the only country in Europe, which since tomorrow's vote on your bill, once again, will be found not to have forest maps.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u296	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u297	To continue with the NATURA areas for which...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u298	No, don't go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u299	Allow me, Mr President. I'll be done in two minutes. To continue with the NATURA regions. Lies and distortions again. What did the Minister say? He said that we were supposed to say that in the NATURA areas no activity is permitted. No falseer! We never claimed that. You have come here, you have made the argument, you have made a caricature opposition, and you have then answered it very easily. What did we say? We said that for the first time, instead of considering ad hoc, in this particular case, the activities in the NATURA areas, you are taking out a repository which says that all activities are allowed in all areas of NATURA. That's exactly what you do and don't deny it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u300	You didn't read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u301	That's exactly what you do and don't deny it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u302	Please, let him finish, or we'll get away.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u303	Third lie and distortion: NATURA and hydrocarbons. SYRIZA provided hydrocarbons in NATURA areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u304	He didn't interrupt anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u305	Listen, Mr. Hatzidakis. On the only licence, which started on the SYRIZA period for the Ionian Islands, there is no plot located in an NATURA area.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u306	Mr. Janakopoulos, you spent the two minutes. Sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u307	For convictions by the European Court of Justice, which all concerned assumptions until 2015. But for the hundred millions that we paid from the same violations, you didn't find ten seconds to make a self-criticism. Can I tell you about the other lie of the decision of the South Aegean GDR, which you relied on in your speech, after the SYRIZA rapporteur Mr Famelos had degraded it, telling you that all the mayors of the southern Aegean have come out and said that this is not the case and that this was a personal position of the President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u308	This is what you're doing, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u309	And you still invoke the same lies? Is it possible to fight against SYRIZA? Instead of looking at, at a time when climate change is a top issue around the world, protecting the environment, are you tabling these embarrassing, environmentally friendly regulations? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u310	Thank you very much. I'm sorry to interrupt you all the time, but just so I don't do it and I look graphic, please, keep track of times. There is also parliamentary scrutiny after that. It's not just us. Mr Vassilios Economou has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u311	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u312	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u313	The programme that has been shared to the Members says that at 20.00 in this Chamber, timely questions will be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u314	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u315	The point is that the remaining speakers do not have time to finish by 20.00 hours. I want to make sure that we don't go tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u316	No, we'll be done. You'll keep track of times and times as long as it goes. Tomorrow, just the articles. At first we'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u317	I also ask the question: In case...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u318	Am I saying something else? Scriptural I came down. I think I'm addressing big kids.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u319	If the news goes to the Senate Hall, can't it be done so that we can continue here comfortably?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u320	I can't decide that. Mr Economou has the floor from New Democracy. Then it's you, Mr. Red.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u321	Mr President, one of the main problems of the July 2019 elections was the country's productive and development reconstruction. The new development cycle, as Mr Mitsotakis was visioned by Kyriakos Mitsotakis, was indeed one of the key tools for environmental policy, namely key tools such as the licensing of enterprises, renewable energy sources, the operation of a series of development policies that pass through and accept and enjoy the guarantee of ecological and environmental equilibrium and development, which is sustainable. This, gentlemen of SYRIZA, is the stake that this law is coming to serve today. Minister, if you hadn't given a date at the difficult juncture of the pandemic that we are going through, you really should have brought the bill, because, when we talk about a difficult economic situation, which is shaped by the pandemic, development and productive reconstruction is a dominant demand for the next period. So, here is the answer to their SYRIZA questions, what is the urgency of this matter that you have brought to Parliament today? The urgency is the rapid, immediate and effective reconstruction of the country in the economy, and this bill achieves it. It's one of the great bills, Minister. In fact, it comes up and answers a number of issues that have been pending for many years, not to say for decades, and this prospect is, as it seems, displeased by SYRIZA and makes sense. Not because they do not understand, not because they only stick to the process and the debate we are having here today on the SYRIZA side focuses on the process, on the individual, but because they understand what the risk is. This bill responds to this risk. So we in the New Democracy say it's time to develop. This development will be done in terms of ecological and environmental equilibrium. Are we doing this in this bill? Of course we do. It also has the eco-label and the development mark, and that bothers SYRIZA. That is why we are listening to a misleading speech, a hypocritical reason, a reason for falseness. This is why they do not understand the risks and substance of the bill? They get it. But, to tell you, Minister. Why did environmental permits not go ahead for five years? One of the big issues that we did not have growth, was this issue of eight years of delays and not two or three months. Because he was helping them. Because they couldn't deal with it because of ideas. Very nice thing Mr Simopoulos said before. We had the ecologists, we had the "talibans" of the ecology, but they were fully serving a state-run, bureaucratic structure, which did not allow anyone to go any private, because development for the SYRIZA means state contribution alone. There is another approach here. There is the approach of the free economy, there is the approach that the private person when investing his money is not a fraud, is not wanted or that the problem is the solution. But these are two theories that really conflict and this conflict we can never resolve it calmly and quietly. There will always be these controversies and these acuity. I, Minister, have, in these past twenty-favourable political years in Parliament, often discussed and I have been on the move to speak about the most famous forest maps. I participated in many meetings with the economist Minister of SYRIZA in the previous period, as a New Democracy MEP, if you remember him - before Mr Famello, Mr Cironi, who really made the need for esteem and talked about settlements. What did he say, but what did SYRIZA say when it was government? That a political response should really be given to the huge problem of what is going to happen with these forest maps and the dozens, hundreds of settlements, for example in East Attica. This could have two solutions. Whether the bulldozers go out and take down the world's houses down, which was implied after Matti - if you remember - the one side of SYRIZA that said of fraudsters and trespassers or the solution of realism - which prevailed - which, of course, said that the next day should be for those settlements - which are arbitrary you want, do not respect the legitimacy you want? - to provide a fair solution to protect the environment. The forest maps in this way, which you have chosen, will become a reality. Those who do not want forest maps would stay with seventy thousand objections. There are forty rights on property, on property. Forty rights. Do you know when the matter will be solved in this property? I know, as a lawyer. It will be solved after 15 years. On a property there are forty rights. So, at the moment, you're giving a solution. I would like to congratulate you. It was bold.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u322	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u323	Let me say two words. It is bold, it is important that you do and those who do not accept should tell us here in the Chamber and in the Step they want. They want us to tear down the world's houses? They want Venizelos refugees to make them wooded? Well, let's say it. They want Karamanlis' reafforestations, seventy years back, do they want us to make it woods? Well, let's say it. Do they want the rural areas, which are asking for a subsidy, to make them woodland? To tell the hundreds of thousands of farmers. We can't have everything in the same armpits at the same time. If you put two watermelons on the same armpits, they'll both fall.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u324	Close it, Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u325	That's what I'm closing down with, Mr. President. I would like to say that you are bold, congratulations that you have made this move with these predictions. I just want to make one observation before I go down. It is very important that you are giving solutions to the transhipment stations in Article 92. It's very important. You've put several municipalities in it. I would ask you, because of my constituency, and because I have been very disturbed by the Marathon Municipality, to commit here that in the next bill this municipality will also be in, because it is one of the oldest - since 1991 - and it is not included in the regulation. However, with your commitment to enter the next bill, this case of the Municipality of Marathon is also covered, which you understand is a historic municipality, with an installation that operates over thirty years with all the licenses and money of the Greek people or European or national has built this facility. I think you'll consider it. I'm waiting for your answer. That's all I had to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u326	Thank you very much. Mr. Vassilis Kokalis from SYRIZA has the floor. Mr Vlachos will then speak for six minutes from New Democracy and then Mrs Sakorafa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u327	I have asked for the floor after Mrs Sakorafa, as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u328	Yes, after Mrs. Sakorafa you will speak. Did you want Mr. Janakopoulos after? You didn't tell me. Okay. Mr. Vassilis Kokalis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u329	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that the government has been trying to send out a message of unity, based on the acceptance of measures against the coronary, with the agreement of course of counter-population. It is, however, a message of unity, baptizing as populists, baptizing as miserable ones those who develop an opposite logic. It is characteristic that the Prime Minister's advice is that "you convey the message of society and leave the opponents, for their own sakes they gloom, they deal with micro-partners, they pretend." Today we have learned that it is hypocrisy to object to unconstitutionality. But what is society's message today on the first day of return slowly to normality? What's the message of society about this bill? Is environmental organisations expressing it? Do scientific bodies express it? Do the educational institutions express it? Does the Citizen's Counselor express this? I will make a case, that we may also be hypocrites, as Mrs Bakoyannis has accused us of, perhaps even plundering, perhaps we should like to take advantage of politically and politically. But the society that shouts about this bill? The Citizens' Counselor, who hits the bell that we probably have issues of unconstitutionality? The University of Thessaly, the Environment Department, all known organisations, all known movements, and they plunder? And these are hypocrites? This is where the "heart, Minister" goes. It is not possible for the opposition to be populists, but for society itself. Unless you consider society itself to be hypocrites, who are rightly complaining about this bill. And all of us, who share this message of society, are baptising us that we are small-party exploiters. First of all, the bill had to be the Ministry of Development speedily. You're making a big mistake. The modernisation of environmental legislation is supposed to be mentioned, and you clearly want to serve specific interests. It is indeed regrettable, when citizens' freedoms have been suspended, because of the horn pandemic, that other things, such as natural wealth, such as nature and the environment, may be in danger. We have heard voices, words loud, words that can move, words that can convince. Six or eight years to get a license. Even ten years. When someone hears it, he's probably right - "Jehovah". Is that why we're doing this? We're abolishing the license. The great mistake you are making is that you are putting authorisation for the environment, making it a formal administrative procedure. You are baptising it in entrepreneurship, while environmental licensing is a guarantee for the constitutional goods enjoyed by Greek citizens. It's a terrible thing to do. Go to the other end. According to the rule of law and the Greek Constitution, the state is obliged for a flexible administrative environment. I think that no one can be indifferent to that. There is no strong argument. It is a flexible administrative environment, but with the guarantees of the Constitution, with the protection of the environment. When institutions, such as the private evaluator, are introduced, it does not have to be a legal person, to understand that you are being dismantled from public authority. You don't have to be a lawyer, to understand that when a private person undertakes to deal with, to conclude, to give an opinion, to judge for the environmental conditions, all concepts of the Constitution are being circumvented. The Citizens' Counsel, Mr President, said that the extension of GDP from ten to fifteen years might be unconstitutional. Apparently, you don't care. Energy communities. You leave them a lot behind. Minister, you're talking about trust. Trust, you know, it's a word that's not built within a month. It's not built in a few weeks. You found the necessity of public health because of the pandemic and you did well. In the environment, do you not see the same need for the public to guarantee the protection of the environment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u330	Close with this, Mr. Red, you've been over time by two minutes already. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u331	The confidence of a citizen - a state cannot be built with such bills. On the other hand, the relationship between the citizen and the state is being compromised, and that is why we are voting against this bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u332	Thank you very much. The debate on parliamentary control went to nine o'clock. By then we must be done. Please. You know when I have time, I let you talk as much as you like. I understand, I'm one of you. Help me once. You see I'm in a difficult position. Don't turn off the microphone, please. I don't want to be the first to do this in this period.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u333	Mr President, may I make a proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u334	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u335	Please. All right, let's talk from the benches. Nor have the officials of this House been inconvenience since the morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u336	It can't be done. You must speak from Stepma when it comes to a speech over five minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u337	We afflict workers while we can speak from our seats and not from the Step of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u338	You are absolutely right, Mrs Pipilis, but let us limit our speeches a little, because, as I understand it, you can tell them in less minutes. Help me, please. At 9 o'clock we have parliamentary control. Let us leave a margin for this Chamber to be able to aerate. Please. Help me once, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u339	Some speakers can go for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u340	No, Mr. Femmelle. At first, we will end today. Please, for the last time. Don't make me look handwriting from up here and beg. Mr Vlachos has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when we started drawing up the draft legislation under discussion today by the Ministry of the Environment, three parameters had to be weighted. The reality, that is, the one that the citizens live every day and which no one has the right to come here and look after, secondly, the legitimacy, namely the respect of the Council of State and thirdly, the lack of any sort of openness that the previous government has inherited us. The demands of the citizens and the various social groups therefore brought together the Ministry of the Environment. Who really does not know and does not want to deal with delays in permits, red tape, ponds of objections, inappropriateness and inefficiency? Who would not want to speed up licensing procedures, simplify environmental legislation, allocate responsibility to those who decide, effectively intervene in the management bodies of the protected areas, the clear landscape for the NATURA regions, resolve the problem of waste, waste and bazaar? These are, of course, the draft legislation under discussion. Instead of making a fruitful and useful exchange of views, in order for improvements to be made, we have faced a sterile opposition tactic, which, when expressing a small party, can be overcome. But when that is the reason for Officerial Response, things are getting much more serious, I would say perhaps dangerous. While SYRIZA's rapporteur was threatening to tell us in committee that they would not do us the favour of not talking about the bill, only about the bill did they not speak. We did not hear the views of the Officerial Response for all those problems that concern the Greek society. They talked about take news from the New Democracy, about devaluation of democracy, of Parliament and of the environment. They talked about anti-environmental and co-responsibility minister, they talked about the "citizens' attorney", "Green Peace", "Green Tank", which the Minister does not hear. You told us we put a lot of money in the bill. There can be no gathering, you told us, under these circumstances, a rally, a concert for the bill. We did not - you told us - the bill in dialogue and that we violated the Rules of Procedure in committee. You spoke of guilt by the Minister and the government, you spoke of a democratic right to raise the tone. You spoke of chairs, you spoke of values and criteria relating to the homeland, and we are concerned about 'the chair alone'. You spoke of who was not invited to Parliament. You told us what the bodies in the committee say. You told us that if we had real consultation, even kindergartens would sign complaints about the bill. Did you support all your opposition tactics on preschool signatures? In any case, did you lose your direction in one of these signatures? Finally, you told us about photographic devices. I told you and the committee that I'm waiting now for the bill to end, bring photo provisions to see in these photos - faces. Because if we look at faces, we shouldn't vote for the bill. But in the end, the photographic provisions that you've been threatening us for so many days is a claim, which is not based anywhere. If you do have evidence - names and numbers - bring them. Don't make general extremisms. I don't honor you. You are a Qualified Opposition. You're responsible. So the debate on the bill is over, and you have said nothing about the residential density, about the tens of thousands of requests for objections, about the multiannual permit delays, about the uncontrolled management of bazaars, waste, and much more that I mentioned earlier. For the cameras, as I told you, we are waiting until tomorrow for you to name us names. Ladies and gentlemen, there are hundreds of thousands of acres of acres of land, for which their owners have titled, cultivated or cultivated to this day, and for which the famous administration is afflicting thousands of our fellow citizens, most of the times because it does not decide the rest, because the citizen must prove himself, forcing them to enter the logic of the transaction several times. Don't tell me he's been listening to this for the first time. Apart from the fact that the solution to the 'transaction' is about the people who possess and not the poor people, not those who do not have the opportunity. Instead, we say clear rules, legality, respect for the citizen and in order to do so, the state needs to recognise reality and deal with problems, by legislating accordingly. It is an end to the hostage of our fellow citizens. Finally become the owners of their property. The government recognises the need for the objections to be dealt with quickly, for the committees to examine objections with functional and flexible compositions so that we can finally see results. For the settlements, you remember, Minister, Mr. Comrade, rapporteur, that we supported the initiative of the previous government. Unfortunately, however, you have not shielded your legislation, so it falls into the Council of State. This loose end that you inherited us, don't you want us to solve it? Will you not tell us what we should do today? Do you want to be a government, but without opinions? What would you do if it were you? Finally, the bill is over, will you tell us? What do you suggest? You mean we shouldn't do anything? He fell and we're done? Do the settlements go? Ladies and gentlemen, the state over time weighting social costs, pros and cons and, if you like, its responsibilities has made a choice. Selection of arrangements, arrangements, always with exceptions of sensitive areas, beaches, streams, etc., for which no law has ever been included. I therefore hope and hope that the President-in-Office's decree that follows will give a radical and definitive solution and certainly put an end to the suffering of our citizens in many areas of our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u342	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u343	Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy, Government and MPs are making an important effort to provide solutions to the real daily problems of Greek society. We don't claim infallibility. We have waited for the effective involvement and presentation of the views of the other political forces. Unfortunately, with the exception of my colleague, Mr KINAL, who gave some remarks, we did not see them, we did not hear them. We heard about the withdrawal of the bill, as if the bill were to be withdrawn by magic, problems would be solved. We, ladies and gentlemen, have clearly chosen the path of responsibility. We looked the civilians in the eyes. We want to facilitate their lives, support our national economy. Like I said, we don't claim infallible. Everything that doesn't work over time, here we are, let's see it again. This, for our part, means responsibility and consistency, so we shall continue, by voting on this bill, which is part of the daily lives of the citizens in many areas. The citizens judge us, they know what we say, they know where the law is, they know what they stand for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u344	Thank you, too. Anyone who wants to talk from where he is, of course, standing. Mrs Sophia Sacorafa from Mera25, and then Mr Bukokouros, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u345	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is impressive that the first bill that the government brings to the sub-optimal, because of the epidemic of the House, automatically breaks down the entire communal artistic image of a government, which is allegedly interested in and concerned about the good of the people and at the same time reveals the real government intention for the present and future of this country. You know, ladies and gentlemen, there are policies that, through their implementation, can destroy an entire generation, but still humanity moves forward, and people are evolving through painful struggles, too, to recover lost and even to gain more. But there are political choices, which destroy the future and the destruction, which they are causing, is irreversible, is definitive. This is precisely the crucial political difference, which can allow certain policies to be characterised as wrong, even criminal, as a matter of fact. The ruthless, robbery and destructive behaviour towards humans and the environment in the name and only of maximising the temporary profit with indifference for the present and contempt for the future of humans and the environment. Today, with this bill, exactly these features are revealed, which have been constantly confirmed since the first day, that you took over the governance and, in particular, during the epidemic period. Great words and emotional expressions for heroes and protagonists and hypocritical affliction of the public health system, just to blur the image. No ERC assistance to medical and nursing staff or infrastructure and of course no provision for tomorrow. Everything on the altar of predatory interests you serve. That is exactly what happens with today's bill. In the climate of fear, due to the epidemic you crafted with and within this despair situation for large groups, which are conscious of and chosen to leave to their fate, you find the opportunity to bring in a bill, which essentially equals what has been left of environmental protection legislation and is fond of the image with the permanent pretext of speeding up procedures and facilitating investors. You know very well that what tragically happens to the detriment of the environment, because of your bill, will be definitive and irreversible damage. So you choose this time point to bring this bill to avoid the manifestations of popular anger. That is also the respect you are showing for the people, the one with stoicity and bravery even subjected to the suspension of their constitutional rights to deal with the epidemic. Normally, I should have stopped here, because I guess it doesn't make any sense to try and convince those who have decided to cooperate in this crime. I will, however, stand up to a few worthwhile points, which prove that today, with treacherous and inhibitions, you do not mortgage or divest, but you destroy the country's most valuable capital, the environment and you deprive it of future generations, without hope to ever regain it. It is, moreover, practically impossible to monitor all the provisions which are currently being introduced on mining, landfills, the possibility of destroying national parks, NATURA areas, but also the dozens of photographic provisions that were not in the text of the consultation and which leave serious suspicions of scandals, selective favourite rule, 'douches' and 'carats'. And all this will appear very soon. In Chapter IV of the Bill you legalise specific arbitrary practices, which are currently being implemented in the protected areas, even in NATURA areas, in terms of any harmful energy, with the top of the destructive mining activity. And just because you know that this is illegal and destructive, with a legal stewardship you exclude land use control from the Council of State. In Article 47 you see that the citizen must obey the power blindly, without control and without objection. You show once again how respectful of democracy and citizens, since you exclude them from the public consultation of the Presidential Decrees and Management Plans, for which management plans do not provide for a duration nor an update procedure. It will apply forever, like Moses' ten commandments. If, in fact, the dossiers are deficient either in studies or in authorisations or in time, there is no problem. They will be completed in retrospect, after the disaster process begins. You consider that everything can be done in NATURA areas and you remove any measures and restrictions of protection. All of this sounds out of common sense, but they are faithfully serving to target your designs. However, what is completely outrageous is the possibility with Article 110 for oil companies to carry out seismic, geophysical and other geological investigations in areas that belong to the public and the OTA, without authorisation, authorisation or consent, and only by simply informing the EDPS of the cooperation programme of sixty days ago. Here, no, you simply do not respect democracy and the citizens, but you are setting up a neo-colonial regime in favour of the most parasitic oligarchy. At a time when the whole planet is struggling for climate change and is trying to dismantle hydrocarbons and mining, you are giving all sorts of facilities to the fewer people to continue their destructive work. You give them with Article 119 and the possibility of deposing mining waste where they think it is simply neutral, unlike even European Directive 2006/21. Minister, you have now overcome the most morbid imagination. Our party took advantage of the quarantine space by organising teleconferences in all regions of the country with our members, friends and institutions from each region. For us it is comforting - for you it will be unpleasant - that, within this gruesome reality, citizens are very anxious to propose the issue of environmental protection. In Thessaly, the destruction of the Agraphs, in Macedonia and Thrace, the gold mines, in Istanbul mining, in Zakynthos the destruction of the National Park, in Corfu, the destruction of Panormitis. There is no end to that list. The anguish and indignation of people runs the whole political spectrum. Today, the "COSCO" has begun dredging at the port of Piraeus cruise and with the toxic seabeds, which will be inoculated in a huge container, the pharaonic platforms for the super-seagoing cruise ships, which would burn fuel for their electricity generation and pollute the atmosphere of all Attica, will be founded. When? Today, when the cruise of this concept is in international dispute. All these years of my parliamentary term, I would be happy if, at least once, development investment, as you mean growth and investment, did not only have a disastrous impact on the environment and did not always deserve labour relations. Let the result be at least neutral and not always in favour of maximising the profits of the minimum at any cost. Unfortunately, my term of office has given me the unpleasant privilege of actively experiencing the investment of "MALL", "COSCO", "ELLENIKIKI CHRYS", the development work in the Graphics, the first-time installation of bioliquids in Messolong, the largest lagoon of Greece and Europe, and of course, the emblematic national investment in the Greek. These and many others, which I do not have time to mention, have experienced them as an active citizen, as well as as as a Member from the same position and with the same attitude as all the governments, regardless of their supposed orientation and election statements. Finally, I would like to say that we know that what matters is not the words, but it is the essence of the policies that are being implemented. Therefore, no matter how much you want to do it, we will never be disobedient to viewers, even if we see the work repeated. In conclusion, Mr Minister, for reasons of parliamentary order alone, but also of fundamental political responsibility, I call on you, even at the last minute, to withdraw this disastrous bill. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u346	Thank you. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u347	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on a very important bill is really interesting, as is shown by what is being heard in the plenary session. Minister, initially addressing you, I would like to say to you - without trying to flatter you - that, in fact, with today's bill, you are building credibility and not building your personal credibility or the credibility of the Ministry of the Environment. You build the credibility of the Greek state, the credibility of the public administration, which must finally cease with every rotation of the government to overturn itself. I listen with caution to the opposition denying in the morning that it can also be environmental and developmental legislation that has this dual character. In other words, during opposition, a bill can only be destructive and destructive for the environment or just environmental and destructive for development. On sustainable development, on the country's European path and on harmonisation with European law, while maintaining the European acquis, all of them are devoting themselves to the fact that they have not heard anything at all, Minister. It's a big one, the bill. I will only deal with two issues: speeding up environmental authorisations and improvements, which you bring to the forest maps, Minister. These are two issues, which employ thousands of people, farmers and investors. They are key chapters of the bill and I think it is about what we call "the next day in Greece" and about the economic recovery with environmental protection and the relaunch of the economy after the pandemic and everything that society and the economy have suffered. I'll start with the forest maps, Minister. I am really saddened by the fact that they parade from the Step of the House former ministers and Secretarys of State for the Environment, Ministers and State Secretarys of Rural Development and have nothing to say for them a single word, and in any case within the framework of a self-criticism for the hundreds of seventy thousand Greek citizens, mainly farmers, whom the draft law on the suspension of the forest maps of SYRIZA detained them, has rendered them impotent because they are present in the farmer's land. Today's Certifying Opposition will say: "Have anyone taken the land?" Basically, she got enclosed, basically confiscated. When the earth cannot be exploited as it has so far been used until the vote of that bill, is that not a kind of confiscation? So he came here again today - as if he hadn't spent one day - the Officerial Vice-President's party to tell us that Hatzidakis doesn't want the forest maps. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, who doesn't want the forest maps? The one who votes for their post and leaves hundreds of thousands of applications for objections to be dragged at the current pace for twenty-seven years, or the one who brings the corrections for the examination of objections, recognizes administrative acts - two hundred years of free life, completes in one year - the Greek administration's long-term actions, what has been signed by the Ministers for Rural Development in the past, nomadic institutions of the state? So who wants the forest maps? It's easy to make an institution and throw it at sea in its fate or make a law without worrying whether it's functional and whether it serves the law and the social whole and the goals of the country. This is very easy and very theoretical. The professional environmental protectors say they protect the environment. How do we protect the environment? When we left management bodies covering 30% of the country, with 8 million funding? Is that how they protect the environment? But I will remain on the forest maps, Mr Minister, because you are really coming with this bill to clarify forever the nature of agricultural land, which the previous bill has, arbitrarily, baptized as forests. I say "shortly" because it is forest land, which comes from expropriations by the Agriculture Ministers many decades ago, eighty and ninety years ago, for land which was purchased, land, which was taxed, inherited, transferred, to a Greek government suddenly - the former - and to say that these land is not agricultural and to fight for the property of half the country's rural population. Of course, it came down to the Council of State the previous bill. The SYRIZA bill. And what went down on the forest maps? And the residential densities and the takeover mechanisms. Why did they fall into my humble view? Because the accelerating minister came here saying that it is an environmental bill and the former Minister for Rural Development comes to Step and says: "He went down because it was very pro-agricultural" and, in the end, it wasn't either one or the other, at the Council of State. I am pleased to hear you say, Minister, that all this will be judged. We are therefore clearing up once and for all the nature of the agricultural land and those of course having areas with legal titles, which came as agricultural land by means of administrative acts, will be rural areas, and the highest courts will also decide. Since the highest courts neither challenge the right to property nor the right to production. Higher courts are putting their decisions against malpractice. Of course, we're here to judge all of us. I am pleased, Minister, because I am aware that many Members from different parties have tabled an amendment to clarify some of the property issues of these lands. I urge you, Minister, in particular the amendment by the Members of the New Democracy, to accept it, as it solves a problem concerning the content of today's bill. It is the object of this amendment that I support from here, from the Step of Parliament. I have tabled - and Mr Kegeroglu from KINAL, as far as I have been aware a moment ago - an amendment with similar content. What is this amendment coming to regulate? It comes to regulate property issues of agricultural land, which have lost the forest character before 1975 and many decades earlier. How did they lose that character? By decision of the Ministers for Agriculture in 1924 and 1954, by decision of the expropriation committees and a thousand other ways. Seventy, eighty, ninety years later, the Greek State came to raise claims against these lands. I'm telling you, Minister, that next year we're spending two hundred years of free life. I shall submit a letter for the Minutes - I have it here - fifty eight farmers and farmers in the Magnesia Prefecture, asking for a provision or an amendment. If amendments have been tabled by several Members, as I said before, I will table it for the Minutes. Do you know why, Minister? Because these people account for how they have been suffering for ninety years with their ownership. The previous legislature ignored the historical context. Thessaly and other regions - Arta, etc. - were released in 1881. Some Greeks abroad - not the metropolis - in the prosperous centers of Hellenism, which existed at the time, bought these lands from the Turks. Then, through legal procedures, they were sold to Greeks. These Greeks, who gave their money eighty, ninety years ago and were taxed for their land and transferred and paid legacy taxes and paid transfers etc. They come today to face a Greek state, which tells them that these areas are not yours. We ask why, since, as your bill says, the nature of the lands have lost the forest character by acts of Greek administration. Is the decisions of a current Minister of State more important than those of those ministers, which served some very specific developmental and food needs of this people and, indeed, at difficult times? Therefore, Minister, if I submit this letter to the fifty-eight farmers and farmers in Magnesia who are asking you to accept the amendment that I have mentioned before, I would ask you to study it, because it has the whole history - and I will ask you for the second time to accept the amendment by colleagues. Now, what you choose is your theme, it's similar to the content. I suggest you select the amendment tabled by the Members of the New Democracy. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Boukoros, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] From there on, I think that the rural world really owes you gratitude, Minister, not because you are doing it a favor, but because you have come to recognize the actions of the state itself, the administrative acts of its own state, what led to the discontinuation of the Greek state, the modern wound of the last few decades. Appropriate! A government comes and deletes acts that directly affect hundreds of thousands of people, comes and takes - in a way, devours - the land of farmers. You will therefore be grateful to the farmers for clarifying the matter. We are sure that the highest courts, which, as I said before, do not object to property rights, are putting against poor legislation, will end these issues, because it is time to see the development of the primary sector. The experiences of recent times show us that there is a need for restructuring the country's productive model and I cannot understand policies, such as the previous government, which wanted to reduce the cultivation land, jeopardise aids and put Greek farmers on an equal footing for twenty-seven years. All this today with the Minister for the Environment Kostas Hatzidakis and the Government of Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy are ending, and our farmers, who have been so afflicted with this issue, can look to the future with greater optimism. Finally, Mr President, I say that speeding up environmental authorisations is a crucial development issue. Does that mean that the environment will not be protected? So a decision taken in a hundred and fifty days' time, why would it be worse than a decision that has been involved in the scratches of bureaucracy for six and eight years, which makes investors listen to "Greece" and go away? Six to eight years for an environmental license! The Minister told you that the opinions of forest and archaeological services retain their importance. You want to involve all Greeks, all investors small and large in the scratches of bureaucracy. Perhaps the only proposal you could make to them and would have some environmental if you wanted an impact and a footprint would be to tell them that farmers and investors ‘leaf trees’, but ‘leaf trees’ do not exist. Development must come and be sustainable. That is what the bill does, which we support and vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u348	Thank you, too. Mrs Fotini Pipili has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u349	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] First of all, on the occasion of the event - a demonstration of environmental awareness outside of Syntagma square, I came up with an image that I hope they will not leave it a rheumatism - as the protesters usually do - where protests are taking place, especially those who are the highest in the environment. Because I remember, to say, Mrs Durou, who had polluted the entire Attica basin provokingly when she was a candidate for regional authority. I remember SYRIZA, who recently dirty all Athens with thousands of badly-famous posters. And the KKE - coordinates in the photo - with the stickers in the Constitution of all of them, who are against the bill of government and Kostis Hatzidakis and went to the cleanliness workers who have borne all this huge weight throughout this period and have been seated by people plucking them out one - one in the peaceful demonstration of the Protomagia. I had to say it, as I would like to say public congratulations to the Mayor of Athens, because I am a MP of the First of Athens, and I am a birth - nourishment of the Centre of Athens, and I can especially appreciate in difficult circumstances a Mayor, Kostas Bakoyannis, who protects the broader concept of the environment and the urban area, which we have completely forgotten. I would like to congratulate the workers and the staff of cleanliness, the Municipal Police and, in general, the green and all workers, because we are saying a lot in here, but some others have kept our Athens, as they should in difficult circumstances. So the bill is a cut-off. And it is an incision, because it takes Greece out of stillness and refusal to admit European data, Minister. Because sustainable development is not unique, as some present it. Sustainable development is the framework for a spatial development future, where the environment lives and breathes for humans and living beings and species, and man protects it, to live and breathe himself in it and from it. Oppositionally, Kyriakos Mitsotakis has explained in all tones that he is in favour of speeding up renewable energy sources and had said and announced provocatively and boldly about the immoralities that "lignite carcinogen and criminal of the environment". He did it with his principle. It really proves, as the Germans have acknowledged, that he is a 'green Prime Minister'. And Kostis Hatzidakis, twenty years old, was a European citizen, specialising in them, and his colleagues at the Ministry, who wrote this bill - who are beaten by some who say "retire, it's criminal" - are also distinguished scientists, specialists in the environment. So, someone's got to say it, too. That's what I'll do. Because I don't have much time, I get over some things and go to specific issues. This bill is strictly based on European directives, it follows standards - countries, which we usually say, 'yes, but Finland has the best education system, it also has the environmental system'. We are therefore following Finland, Ireland and Portugal. Mr Mitsotakis had said something, which was very important, that no longer in this populism and in this wild bourgeoisie, which has raised populations of entire parties and political populists and leftists and far-rightists, for example, that wind generators sterilize goats, Mr President. We had come to talk about a lignite, which sends tens of years of workers with cancer, and say that from wind turbines, which have spread across Europe, in mountains, in lakes, in seas, in rivers, here - especially in Skyros - we will sterilize the goats. Let's go to the office. There have been and there have been excellent masters, but thank you very much, Mr Hatzidakis, you and your colleagues, who eventually break down the master's system, which writes the orders of Europe, the government, the people's demands and comes to tell us just in 2017 a master - a brilliant example of environmentally sensitive! - that the runway in the Greek was a woodland and laughed at European goats with this decision. How much has this huge national project been delayed? Because we are talking about unemployment, we are talking about what will come after the coronary, but we are not saying that something must be done, because the 'leaf tree', as Mr Bukouros and Prime Minister said the other day, is over. We are now going to the reactions of the institutions, first of all, which are being cut off. I'm in a hurry. Some of these environmental organizations, now protesters, went and indicted twenty years ago against Vassilis Konstantakopoulos' vision in Messinia. Some of those who are outside today have stopped the greatest investment of the benefactor, all of whom the Messinia Prefecture and the neighbouring counties have declared him to be a national benefactor. Now they're out there protesting. So they're leaving the office seals. We are now going to the almost unanimous reactions of certain bodies for renewable energy. I want to ask a question, and I'm closing. The lignite ends in two, three or four years. Electrical water dams we didn't want. I remember, as a journalist, saying 'I say, black flags, drown the villages, what we want the lakes, will cause an earthquake'. We didn't want them. Now we're enjoying them. Now we don't want wind turbines, because they destroy tourism, the environment, the fish, the birds, just as the Panathinaikos project did in the Botanic, which we would have acquired a beautiful green within the center of Athens. We suffocate the Athenians because they existed in the Botanic with the balls, the iron stores, the abandoned and the rubbish, rare birds. So all these people must come to the House to tell us why they have stopped investment projects and want to stop something they cannot, because we are voting on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u350	Thank you, too. Mrs. Sunday Malama is called to Step by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u351	Ladies and gentlemen, noteworthy is often of special importance, and at such a critical juncture for health and the economy only anger can cause the government to choose to return to the legislative work with a bill that dissolves the environment, giving the country's land, water and air to the biggest interests. Of all the monsters of this bill, I would like to stand, for my part, in one of the great scandals it involves. This is the tradition of North-East Halkidiki at ‘ELDORADO GOLD’. With this bill, the long-lived immunity that the company has been seeking for so many years is being done. He's given immunity to the company for everything he's done illegally and for what he's planned to do. With three articles of this bill and their combination, the "ELLENIC FRAMEWORK" can now pierce wherever he wants, fly whatever he wants and where he wants to throw it. Didn't you learn about the double flood in Olympiad this year? Have you not been concerned about the fact that within the mining sector environmental inspectors are discovering all such illegalities, outbreaks of toxic pollution and arbitrary interventions, leading to the flooding of rafts, water destruction and deterioration of the environment and the life of Halkidiki? Don't you feel the cracks in dozens of buildings in the Army, or do you feel the abrupt images from the military beach with the black spots in the sand? None of this concerns you and you continue to support mockery and implication by representatives of the Mining Enterprise Association that mines in NATURA are - says - compatible with environmental protection? Minister, I have heard you say how much you love the environment. I'm glad about that. So I take the initiative to invite you to Halkidiki, you and your State Secretarys, on vacation, to Kokkinolakas, in the military where the buildings are ready to fall. I urge you to come to Squirrels. You're invited. We'll be waiting for you, Minister. So let me return to the impression that the debate in the committee has taken place. The impression is that the whole leadership of the Ministry of the Environment, and the Minister and Undersecretaries, are, not just friendly to the demands of "ELDORADO GOLD", but appear perfectly willing to promote them with zeal, indeed, by tiring up every concept of political and moral ethics. The Ministry of the Environment in this debate in committee acted as the Press Office of the "ELLENIC FRYS". What you're doing with this bill will be disastrous for Halkidiki. With the combination of Articles 1 and 4, you allow the Hellenic FRYS to deceive the State legally no longer and do not apply the obligations which it had undertaken under the 2011 Convention. Everyone knows that this company does not like to pay for environmental rehabilitation projects at all, that it does not want to pay for the safety of facilities and personnel and that it does not want to keep commitments in relation to the production process. That is why you have been dictated by a new contract, which relieves it of everything you hypocritically claimed to implement in 2011, when the mining area was cut to be awarded to her to grab Skouria, to grab Halkidiki from the fields, from her people, to grab Kakavo. By these articles, therefore, the ‘Hellenic FRAMEWORK’ may without formalities extend and amend the decision approving the environmental conditions it had taken in 2011. The public and the Ministry of the Environment with these provisions will not even have the right to control the company's claims, but will only have to sign what it wants in its own interests. For Rule 4, in particular, the Scientific Service of the Parliament also asks you to correct it. Because in the wording you now have, you are abolishing the concept of public control over very problematic enterprises, such as the "Hellenic FRYSOS". This article contradicts both the Constitution and the European acquis. We're not going to let you pass it and apply it as easily as you think. The other great gift to ELDORADO is, of course, Article 119. We have heard the representative of mining companies and the State Secretary responsible, who seems to be the privileged interlocutor of the "ELLENIKIKO FRYS" to reconcile each other. Do you understand what you're doing with this article? You remove the licensing requirement of HYTEA, which according to the environmental auditors has not been sealed as it should be. And you give green light to the company, with a very simple notification, to fly what it wants, where it wants in an area of fifty-five thousand acres, with a simple notification. If that's not a banana device, then what is it? With this article, you open the door to "ELDORADO GOLD" and to other "Drugs". Taking advantage of this provision on an obligation to notify and not to grant authorisations, the company will also be able to open new mining fronts where it wants to do so in the area it controls. We all know that, many times, the company has pushed out poorly - badly the environmental auditors, who have tried to control it within the mining area, and has not hesitated to discredit them publicly through its executives at every opportunity. This mining zone under Article 119 is changing to an area which does not belong to any State. This development is a Latin American type. Halkidiki society doesn't want it, Minister. What don't you understand? We've been talking about it for so many years now! I close, saying: You have in your Ministry's drawer the new contract you want to sign with the "ELLENIKIKI CHRYSOS". For three months now, you have not made it public, but you have been legislating wickedly, to turn it on. We warn you that any concessions to the company will not be accepted and will be insulted by any legal and institutional instrument. So we tell you now what the company will ask you to do and do not sign anything that will obscurely bind the public, because you will answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u352	Thank you, too. Mr Philipos Loading from New Democracy has the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to keep up with the time. You see the time is 20.15'. Another Minister will be coming at 21.00 p.m. Please, let's make it. We don't have to cut anyone off or close a microphone. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u353	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me to say, from the Step forward, a great thank you to all those who have fought theirs so that we can stay safe in our own homes. So to this day, then, our big bet was to stay home. The bet over the next few hours, over the next few days, over the next few weeks is more difficult, more complex, is extremely important. The bet now is to stay safe. But again, we will succeed in all the battles that we now have before us. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now clear that society now expects from politics, but also from the politically different things that it may have expected in the past. We are no longer required to agree, but we are obliged to discuss, because we have a common objective: a genuinely green policy, of course with the ultimate aim of sustainable development. So the conditions have matured for effective, but also bold policies. On environmental protection, perhaps the time has come. Perhaps now it has come to recognise that all these challenges need to be tackled without delay and that this is a survival treaty, not only for the country but also for the planet as a whole. This government, the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis, therefore respects its promises to strengthen the sustainable and sustainable economy, to rationalise the functioning of the State and to ensure effective protection of public goods. With the present bill, ladies and gentlemen, this is first and foremost the case. The government is consistently fulfilling its objectives. What are these objectives? Development through rational use and at the same time effective protection of environmental wealth and simplification of procedures, greater clarity of regulation and elimination of strangles, with a view to release of forces into critical productive activities. At the core of this bill, therefore, is to balance the effective protection of environmental goods and the productive use of resources for both the benefit of local societies and the local economy. This draft law introduces new regulations, often subversive - I would say - in order to achieve a balance of environmental protection, but also productive activities in critical fields, such as environmental conditions of production activities, renewable energy, management of areas, characterisation of forest land and conditions of activity within them, additional land uses in specific areas and waste management. Clearly, balancing is a difficult bet. It is a multifactorial problem, which often requires different solutions by field or region of the country. Clearly, in several fields, such as in the RES or in the management of waste, all implementation requirements between island and mainland Greece are different. In any case, this draft law has become a serious and high-level assessment of all the critical parameters and weightings have been made in many key areas. However, in this difficult bet to balance the environmental protection and sustainable use of resources may need - I would say - monitoring and vigilance of all those who will be called upon to implement the forthcoming law and perhaps at some point need improvements. The major thing, however, is that the New Democracy Government is changing page. It changes the gravity of all things, overthrowing the state’s chronic approach to things as a whole. Gravity is now given to the substance rather than the process. There are areas in which the institutions are involved, but also in many procedures. With this bill, therefore, the government has bold solutions to solve chronic problems in how the institutions operate. The main axes of the existing bill are not only speeding up and simplifying procedures, but also confidence in the citizen. We therefore attach importance to the rapid resolution of issues, by showing confidence in citizens, entrepreneurs and private professionals. On several fields we trust private professionals to support opinions and other functions. In addition, services and registers are being interconnected and technological tools are being used to cross-check data so that the entire administration can check its own-initiative data that we have so far asked the citizens or businessmen concerned to prove. In this bill, ladies and gentlemen - and I close - it appears once again that the current government aims to solve problems and free forces, aiming at a reformist section in the direction of sustainable development, solving and improving decades' problems. For all these reasons, I urge you to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u354	Thank you very much, Mr Loading and the maintenance of time. My pleas were heard only by Mr. Loading, who is from the Cyclades. Mr. Kegeroglu, it's your turn. I have made many calls - because you weren't in - for time. Please, too. We then have a debate on parliamentary scrutiny. Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglu from the Change Movement for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u355	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, six minutes are an important time, but it should have been for everyone. The bardals started in the morning from the Bureau and you need to comply, in accordance with the rule to be uniform for all speakers. Tomorrow I think that this morning we do not have boxers, 'large' Presidents, who leave nine, ten and fifteen minutes. But I too have now had to waste my time, to say that you are not doing your job, not you personally, but the Bureau in general. Allow us, as we have elected you, to listen to this criticism. You're not doing your job well!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u356	Because she's well-qualified, we hear her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u357	Thank you, Mr President. It's not about faces. Unfortunately, that's how we've learned. We are discussing a very serious bill dealing with man, nature, future, man and world. It must therefore be inherent in the concept of sustainability, but also in the concept of social justice. When, many years ago, we first talked about green growth, then from the New Democracy Ward, we were told 'green horses'. It is a positive development, therefore, that after two decades perhaps they come to tell us: 'But we of green development are also.' I have heard it from many colleagues and indeed from someone who at the time was the 'green horses' from the Step of the House. It's a positive development. But is that really so? Beyond the personal views of either the Minister or his colleagues, we can see whether this policy has the elements of green development, which concern man and his world, namely the element of sustainability and the element of social justice. Let's see, why the Minister and the government in general, had chosen easy confrontation with SYRIZA's populism and what suits it. It suits her to confront SYRIZA, because she says to him: "And you did the same", "you made it worse" or such expressions. But it's not about that. The risk is not if there is a well-founded and we have to follow it, but what changes need to be made so that our world can be synchronised, so that our country can be synchronised with the needs on the one hand, both of the new risks that are emerging, such as the pandemic that obliges us to change minds and put man and his world at the heart of our policies and, on the other, to remember public values, to remember social goods, to remember that there are future generations that we have borrowed this world. So, to go to those specifics, green development is linked to locality, to local society, to people in every local society, to farmers, to rural people and cannot exist without them. With them and others, of course, but not without them. I say this because the philosophy of the government today, expressed by this bill, does not take into account local societies, local people and it is not just the current government. This is also a phenomenon of the past, even of our governments, with articles and procedures which circumvented the local society. Today this is not allowed after the experience of so many years. Of course, it is easy to compare, for example, with Mr Voutsi, who said today: 'But with this bill you want to relaunch the economy'. It is easy for Mr Hatzidakis to say on the other hand: yes, we want to reboot it. That's not a charge, it's not dead. So it makes it easier for him to do the work. But are they reopening it with the rules on sustainability and social justice? Oh, no. And I can explain, with a great deal of conciseness in specific articles. With Articles 17 and 24, large producers are being strengthened, large investors, which are not related to local society, even to property belonging to others. There is a paradox here. The Party of New Democracy, which believes in property, says that one can get permission without being owner, without asking the owner, "writing" him properly and the state to recognize him and finance him already doing work on foreign property. This is what these are about, authorisations that do not seek titles of ownership. This is not a simplification of the procedure. These are gifts. The State distributes rights by opening the market for ‘green’ energy. What rules does it have to respect for the distribution of rights? To have equal conditions, at least, for everyone, if not - for us - of goodwill to support the weak, to enable the household, to be able to a farmer, to be able to be a craftsman, to be able to participate in the opening up of the green energy market and to invest. If he can't do it alone, he can do it through the cooperative, through the energy community. There is now the institutional framework for energy communities. Unfortunately, he is downgrading, Minister. You take them to second degree, retroactively to increase charges to invest, and what should a government really believe in green growth, green energy? To make out a financial instrument which makes use of municipalities, institutions and households and persons, all citizens, in order to be able to invest through collective schemes in the 'green' economy. Another article, in addition to Articles 17 and 24, which we shall vote against and put in roll-call vote, is Article 20 on RAE and its illegality. He's talking about some things. RAE can go aside and the Minister can make a decision. No, we're going to vote roll-call on that as well. I say this because they have tabled a request for a roll-call vote and other parties, but not for these articles. They've put on some regional issues. Article 27 refers to the FYROM. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. It is essentially a process which must also have the social element, locality and regionality. He's making her a central government agency. Articles 44 and 46. In the NATURA areas it introduces the ‘make dogs, salts’. Of course, there is easy controversy with SYRIZA, because the areas, for example, for the extraction of hydrocarbons had been licensed by SYRIZA and it comes now and says 'but why do you want to facilitate the mining process'? In this context, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from That is why I told you that you are favoured by the opposition from the Civic Opposition, because it cannot, today, be opposed to the substance, politically and in the interests of the country, because it has actually made them messy and worse. Article 93. Please, Minister, as you have withdrawn - and you have done quite rightly - for further consultation of what should apply to the centre of Athens, you are also withdrawing Article 93 in relation to operators for the islands. The Constitution tells us the simple thing: "When you vote a law or a presidential decree or issue a regulatory act or a ministerial decision, etc., you will take into account the islands, the specificity of the islands". That simple thing tells us. You don't do it here in Article 93. Some bodies are doing well, like in Kefalonia. Let's go ruin them. And where they go to give a solution, which got out of the triple accident, to have the mayor of SYRIZA, SYRIZA district officer and SYRIZA government, you guys go get them into trouble again. Hey, no! Get them out of this one time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u358	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u359	I shall conclude, Mr President. We come to Article 110, which is the last. You grant licences, you provide for permits for mining procedures without even the opinion of the ATTs. It is a series of articles, which unfortunately strengthen the view of those who say that today the priority was not to have a sustainable solution, with the development of our country, rationally exploiting the natural wealth it has and the possibilities, but to give real rights, to distribute rights to the powerful. Distribution of rights is a basic principle, in our view. It must be seen from justice, from the sense of morality, because it is about morality here, that we do not actually give the right to the weak and those who belong to the low and medium-income to participate in the development of a place with the opening up of this market. I have announced that Articles 17, 20, 24, 27, 44, 46, 93 and 110 will be put in the roll-call vote tomorrow. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u360	Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u361	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to express my pleasure at returning to the House House House and the plenary session after almost a month and a half. I am optimistic that the attempt to regain our pace will be as successful as the management of the consequences of the pandemic so far. We all have to adapt to the new situation. There are a lot of things that have changed in recent months, but they are also going to change in the future. What we did not see, however, changed is how SYRIZA is opposed, a way that has now become a second nature, as was seen in the debate on the bill in committees. They again heard the same, monotonous, stereotypes, for handing over the environment to entrepreneurs and speculators, for the sake of interest, for unrealistic neoliberals, for violating the Constitution and Community law, for closing the eye to voters. There has also been a lot of hearing about the procedure, that the formation of critical provisions was done in summary procedures, secretly, without consultation, and that the way in which it is being discussed and voted is unparliamentary and undemocratic, that more than a hundred bodies should be involved at the hearing, as if possible or in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House. There has been more discussion about the process, less and less constructive discussion about the substance. Because the substance, ladies and gentlemen, is that this bill is fully in line with the main objectives of it, which are called'sustainable development', objectives set out in the 2030 UN Agenda, and the European Union has committed itself to achieving its policies. Our commitment to a sustainable development model runs through the entire bill. It serves economic development inclusive, looking at prosperity and future generations. With this we create those conditions that facilitate investment and create more and better jobs, without harming the environment, the quickest and simplest environmental licensing procedures, and speeding up authorisations for the production of energy from renewable sources. By even encouraging investment in renewable energy, we are serving another objective of sustainable development, which is also a strategic objective of our country's new development model, gradual degreasing and the production of clean energy, at a significantly reduced up to zero burden on the environment. The aim of the responsible management of the natural environment of our waters and our forests is also served. This contributes to the clear and horizontal rules for the four areas of NATURA, as well as the new framework for the management of protected areas, which also provides mechanisms for better protection of them. Sustainable production and consumption are also served by better waste management and other waste, but also by the proper application of the European directive to limit the use of plastic bags. Finally, the objective of sustainable development, which is to reduce emissions, is to go to a low-carbon economy. In this context, there is also the incorporation of a Community directive on the energy efficiency of buildings into Greek law. Of these, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that what we want to achieve is to protect the environment with a development dimension. That is why what was written in a remark from a recognised environmental organisation is inappropriate that the bill does not have a clear signal. It's got a stigma, and that's crystalline. I understand the awkwardness of the colleagues in the Opposition Officers, because they see a New Democracy government making a difference where they did not succeed or even try. Although self-characterised as the "Left of Ecology", they did not provide solutions to the management of waste in Attica and other regions of Greece. Because they didn't make brave decisions on liberation. Because they did not effectively address the delays in the authorisation of the RES. Because they did not run environmental permits, discourage larger and smaller investors. Because the irresponsible and arbitrary status of land use in the NATURA regions were tolerated. Because they have not been adapted to social environmental law and have dragged the country into the European Court of Justice. Because they chose the anti-constitutional and anti-environmental regulation of the settlements. With such a sinful past, with such poor performance in a place that you think you're playing in a seat, your embarrassment is understandable. It is expected that your attempt to throw the ball into the cradle, make criticism outside the subject, understand what suits you to understand. We won't follow you. We will continue to talk about the substance, but we will not give you the impressions. We now come here for a long time and say that this legislation meets the needs of the environment, the needs of the economy, the needs of society and is doing so in full alignment with the Constitution, with Community law and bringing better practice from other European countries. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last two months the citizens have judged us for the calm and methodical management of a public health crisis that had no precedent. From now on, we will be judged more and more strongly and for our ability to restart the economy, to regain the thread of growth and prosperity that will spread to many. That is what they do with this bill, and let us be sad at some, because in their environmental issues we have come out of the left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u362	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u363	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u364	Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u365	And less, Mr President. I take the floor, just to tell the House that I am tabling a first package of legislative improvements - twenty-four legislative improvements - which I imagine will be distributed. Basically, they are in this package legislative improvements in the energy sector - not only - but also in the environment. Also, several of these technical improvements take into account, as you will see, comments from the Scientific Committee of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u366	I would ask that the legislative improvements be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u367	Minister, because we also need to prepare for a possible roll-call vote and for the statements against the articles, we would like you to tell us about when you plan to complete the legislative work. We have an hour to get to work, whether you'll be here tomorrow or you'll be making modifications. I do not know what you have removed in Article 99. So we would like all this to be clarified to place us. The Minister said he's retiring. But we need to know what. It must be printed in the House. It makes no sense to say it orally. You understand. It must be put forward in a legislative, amendment or something. So it's good to know the timing, and what exactly will be withdrawn, because it's just an oral location so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u368	I cannot tell you exactly when these will be submitted. It's not up to me. In other words, it is a legal work that is done behind these legal corrections. It is the General Secretariat of the Government, which, as you know, always approves all governments. I am therefore not absolutely a master of the process. We'll try as soon as we can, but I can't guarantee you. I'll try the best. I too have been a Member of the opposition, and I fully understand your role.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u369	For Article 99 something specific?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u370	What 99 is about is the provisions relating to land uses in the center of Athens, hotels, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u371	Not all 99.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u372	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u373	Don't get any misunderstanding. Just set this up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u374	Mr. Nikolaos Syrizas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u375	Thank you, Mr President. I'll speak from my place. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are entering a gradual normality, but I would say that this gradual normality for the House should be speeded up and that is why I urge the Bureau of Parliament to persuade the government to organise diagnostic tests both in the House and for all Members and for employees and for all major business spaces and services to organise these tests, because otherwise, I think we are going blindly. Anyway, I'm getting to the point of the bill. Mr Minister, unfortunately, you are presenting a very disgusting and environmentally sound bill, which comes under the conditions of the ending of the House, but also with the real limitation of democracy. However, thousands of citizens, just before, in the Constitution, protested against the environmental bill and asked for it to be withdrawn. We therefore come to vote in legislative terms on the grounds of forced and counterfeiting of the people's will, since there is and has been such a great reaction on the part of the directly involved parties. The contents of the bill contrast entirely with the need for urgent measures to tackle climate change, but also with the health crisis itself, which, according to the international scientific community, is the result of the global's development distortions in recent decades. This bill kills the environment, despite what you say, Minister. It eliminates the landscape and biodiversity, in the name of investments, completely ignoring the requirements for sustainable development. After all, you said: What do you want? After the coronary, do not invest, on the basis of what we have as an institutional framework up to now? The shortening of the examination of environmental conditions in the name of investment acceleration and efficiency, the shrinking of public administration's environmental services in the examination of the dossier and the involvement of private assessors, highlights the environment as an obstacle rather than an organic element of growth, with what this of course means. In the above logic, of course, you also have a choice and a number of private interests, which are subject to a number of issues which concern the island regions in particular, which I come from. The first issue concerns the issue of RES. wind farms can be established indiscriminately, even in NATURA areas, while bypassing and ignoring the criterion of capacity and spatial planning, which is supposed to be established by the specific spatial framework for the RES, but which will not be completed in less than two years. Of course, licensing is now replaced by a producer's attestation through concise procedures, while at the same time, the permit for environmental conditions, so-called GDP, can be extended for many years by the licensing authority, without the right to intervention by local communities. The island communities are rebellious and mobilized in the face of the prospect of setting up large pharaonic wind parks that brutally offend the landscape, the excellent natural and handmade anthropogenic environment, that is, the real motives for sustainable tourism development. So I challenge you, and I invite you, both here and now, Mr Minister, to be lacking in person, I imagine that I speak to some people, because I see that he is the Secretary-General - to accept the suspension of the installation of all wind turbines on islands which are inconsistent with the requirements of the carrying capacity and the exceptional primitive natural landscape, as well as the final establishment of the Special Spatial Planning Programme, which will be the product of consultation with island municipalities and local communities. Yesterday we heard that my colleague, Mr Loading, had an amendment on the table. I would subscribe to this amendment because it calls for exactly what I am saying here, namely a suspension of the installation of wind parks, until the completion of the special landfill. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need some time, Mr President, and I'm going to run out of it. A second issue is the substantial abolition of Protected Area Management Bodies. After you have deceived them, after you have left the staff unresolved, you are now abolishing them and incorporating them into a central body, removing their locality and decentralisation. In particular, for the Cyclades, the SYRIZA Government, understanding the importance of protecting the thirty-six biodiversity sites, proceeded to the establishment of a Protected Area Management Body, with a view to setting up and sub-sections, precisely in order to allow for greater protection of the extremely rich biodiversity areas. Integration of operators into the management units of protected areas referred to in much wider geographical frameworks completely weakens the possibility of protection on a decentralised basis and reduces the possibility for municipalities to participate. The third question concerns the forestry provisions, Article 48 and others. After trying to draw up and suspension the forest maps in the air to date, having arbitrarily legalised within forest areas, with regard in particular to the Cyclades, Ionian, Crete, Mani, etc., instead of bringing the provisions of Article 18(2) and (3) of the SYRIZA bill on Minister Mr Famelou in June 2019, which was tabled, but because of elections, it did not have time to vote, which guarantee the presumption of ownership of private individuals against the public, you continue to perpetuate the hostage status of tens of thousands of citizens who ask them to prove the ownership of their property by judicial decision. In practice, this means that they refuse to translate notarial deeds into immovable property referred to in paragraphs 5a and 5b of Article 3 of Law 998/1979, referring to grassland, rocky and stoney areas. The fourth issue concerns Naxos, Mr Secretary-General. I'm saying it because you've dealt with the smurf. On this matter, you arbitrarily put...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u376	Just finish this, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u377	I do not conclude with that, Mr President. Excuse me, but I have another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u378	I know you're from the area and you're interested. I get it. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u379	We have too many issues. There are not many colleagues from island regions. I need to talk. Let me go now, we're getting to the end. You determine arbitraryly hundreds of fifty stars per head, corresponding to seventy-five marks. This, however, violates the real situation, as much of the smiths have delivered far larger quantities, ensuring full insurance coverage. The wording they propose themselves and their union is to replace their insurance, in accordance with the situations delivered to Naxos Smyrimachia Office, and not to set a hundred and fifty stars. That's what they're asking. The fifth issue concerns the major problem of the establishment of the regional FOSDA. Listen. Of course, here you want to transfer all the property and the power of the municipalities to manage the waste to a regional body, an anonymous company, with an unspeakable aim of privatising. Let it be well, of course, and some private interests, which will, as a matter of time, take over this management, of course, by gaining maximum profits at the expense of the environment and the public. However, there was a great smuggling with a document signed by the President of the ETUC, Mr Kambourakis, that all municipalities were supposed to be unanimous. So I will tell you in the Minutes, now that I will finish the letter of twenty mayors, which arrived an hour ago, who raises the question of withdrawal of the bill, because this has not been discussed. They're asking all municipal councils to discuss it in consultation. That is why we are telling you that you brought a bill with sixty articles, out of consultation, with very serious issues relating to the daily lives of the citizens. They therefore call for the bill to be withdrawn and for consultation to be held. Of course, they refer to a number of other issues, the forests that I have said before, but also the wind parks. There is also - I conclude, Mr President - the letter from the Mayor of Kos, which is out of twenty, which he also calls for the withdrawal. There is also a supreme letter from the District Administrator, who, unfortunately, as the party leader of the New Democracy and not as an institution, is addressed only to the Members of the New Democracy and only to the ministers, ignoring that there are two members of the SYRIZA in the southern Aegean, whom he is making from outside the notification of these issues and the claim. Finally, with regard to the privatisation of IPTO, which also concerns the islands, because it had started a programme of implementation and had already proceeded in the first and second phases, programming is being jeopardised and, obviously, private interests, which will take the IPTO, will be able to develop from now on, on the basis of not the public interest, but their own private interests. In other words, the networks of our country are unnecessarily handed over to some friends and private interests, millimeters to the Government of New Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u380	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u381	However, Mr President, there is a question of the smuggling of a document, as you can see.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u382	Yes, the complaint was indeed serious. Mr. Armachene will testify and we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u383	Is it a fake document from Mr. Hatzidakis? Wait a minute, 'cause things sound...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u384	Please, Mr. Economou. He said he was poaching. Let's testify and we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u385	If the document was not accurate, in the statement of what it did, it is another thing and another thing is poaching. What poaching?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u386	He said it. He's also taking responsibility. Mr. Economou, let's not have a dialogue now. We'll see the document and see what's going on. That's what Mr. Symblene said. There's in the Minutes. Please. The Ministers for the Environment, Energy, Economic, Foreign and Justice today tabled a draft law on the transport of gas from the Eastern Mediterranean to the European markets: "Structuring the Intergovernmental Agreement between the Republic of Cyprus, the State of Israel, the Hellenic Republic and the Italian Republic". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr Nicholas Tagaras has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u387	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have been following since the start of the debate - since the morning - all the Members' positions on the bill we are debating today in plenary. I do not hide what I expected, the time - because it was too much - to be more productive and more creative. I've heard a lot of outrages, charges, complaints. But suggestions were missing from many colleagues, if anything needs to be improved, listen and become better. I shall be brief in my remarks, while respecting the time that has been passed, Mr President. I would just like to make one comment. In principle, as regards the unconstitutionality of Article 48, mentioned earlier, the Council of State, in its decision in 2019, states that maintaining the non-tariff character of an area is valid on condition that the character laid down by a management decision - that is, the non-tariff character - is maintained. From this means that, in order not to consider a property as a forest, apart from having a decision lawful for a change of use, it is the new use to be maintained. What is added as an amendment strengthens environmental security. It is to the safety and environmental protection side. I come here to make a more extensive reference to the forest maps, the settlements. I have heard that the bill needs to be withdrawn and, of course, that it should be withdrawn and that it refers to forest maps and settlements, because the process is being destroyed, which is under way. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Minister withdraws the bill or withdraws the provision on forest maps and settlements, will the procedure proceed? Why are we kidding in here? Following the decision of the Council of State, we cannot proceed with the suspension of forest maps, because the housing densities must also be placed at the same time, the areas delimited by the viral contours and we know at the same time that the completion of the forest maps is conditional on the completion of the Land register. When we talk about forest maps, it's not just posting them. They should be final and precise, so that they can be used as a condition for completing the register. As far as settlements are concerned, I would like to say that the whole procedure envisaged, so that there are no problems of unconstitutionality again, because the final decision will be judged by a presidential decree. For the legal certainty of the decision to be taken, it refers very well to the steps that will be taken by these committees to be set up throughout the entire process, as provided for in the draft law. First of all, in the economic studies, focusing on each area on each settlement, with specific characteristics and which will, as I said, be finally set by a presidential decree to ensure the constitutionality of these decisions, which is the maximum that we are allowed and in which we are making, so that we can be safe against owners who have been very anxiously awaiting the completion of a process which has been initiated years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, I have had the honour of being one of the signatories to Law 4280/2014 and Law 4315/2014, referring to permitted interventions in forests and forest areas and not only. Many of them then fled by accuseing and denouncing the provisions relating to legalisation of decades of forest land extinguished by farmers. I am pleased that they were then accepted and extended, as well as for the problem of settlements and arbitrary settlements within forests and forest areas. I think that all the route we've been through should make us all better and wiser and, in any case, working together and breathing back to hostages, but also to decades' problems involving thousands of people living out of here. It is the least we should have to do on our part by working together. I believe that we have common points so that we can complete this process. We may have started with different views, from different starting points of view, but with what has been ahead of us, and what we have been through, we must take responsibility for all of us in terms of obligations and responsibilities, also give them a way out. I would like, in this sense, to end, Mr President, by saying, but also to my fellow Members, that I should like to vote on the provisions which the bill today brings to Parliament. For individual articles, I will talk tomorrow, I do not want today, as I said, to steal time. I think it is a good opportunity for all of us to compose opinions and reach decisions that lead us to the problems of our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u388	Thank you, too. Mr. George Tsipras has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u389	Thank you, Mr President. I would first like to inform the Members present that the Prime Minister gave an interview with the "CNN" a moment ago and spoke of a 10% recession this year. After the 4.7% of Mr Stakoura, who is present, who has become 7.9% in the European Union report, we now have 10%. When the estimate is stabilised outside, in the United States and in Europe, it is good to take the measures that you are not taking a month now, because it seems to you, too, that the recession will be a great deal too, and therefore it is not some indestructive prediction of SYRIZA. Of course, I am concerned that the Prime Minister mentioned with confidence the future of the Greek economy. The last time he talked confidently was for 4% growth in 2019. I'll start with IPTO and a rather old story. In 1991 the privatization of "AGET HERAKLIS" was the most comprehensive privatisation of the period. Why am I talking about her? Because then the privatisations were not fashionable, despite the fact that a decade of Thatcher was in Britain and Reagan in the United States. The main argument - not only - was that Greek taxpayers cannot pay loss-making businesses. But come on, "GET HERAKLIS" was more than a profitable business! So when the Minister responsible at the time was asked, Mr Andrianopoulos - I think he was Minister for Industry - 'why are you selling the GATS as they are not loss-making?' His answer was: ‘What will investors get? The damage? The profitable will be taken.' Evidently, he said it in despair of the intellect of the pan-Hellenic. I say this for one reason, that it is not only rhetoric, a neoliberal old cutting rhetoric and now outdated in most countries in the world that it has been implemented, with which we obviously disagree, but also that what you are doing is abstaining from your rhetoric. I come to the story of IPTO. Mr. Hatzidakis has made the privatization of OLYMPIAKIS the political path, with the main argument that Greek taxpayers saved annual losses charged by OLYMPIAKI and so on. Now see what you're going to do with AEGEAN. It's private. But IPTO is, unfortunately, a very profitable business. The first month of 2019 ended with 140 million profits. Then the question is why should 51% not remain in the public sector, such as the SYRIZA government's emblematic provision. In most Western European countries the state is the sole or majority shareholder in management or distribution companies, both electricity and gas. Throughout the developed world, the trend over the past 20 years has been not privatisation, but the deprivation of many energy networks and not only, a trend that Mr Hatzidakis knows will now be intensified because of the pandemic. It's for granted. So why? The second main argument over time was the development of infrastructure. There is perhaps no more unfortunate example than the case of ADIDME. When we handed him over he had an investment plan of 3 billion in all four and a half years of our own governance, he promoted or completed the electrical interconnection of Crete - Attica, the interconnection of Crete - Peloponnese, the extension of a 400KW system to the Peloponnese, the upgrading of the northern interconnection corridor of the Cyclades, the interconnection of Sporades etc. Therefore, the majority public IPTO, not only is it not injurious, but it has been shown that it can and is progressing rapidly in the development of infrastructure. You privatize him or abolish a provision that allows privatisation. Do you have any study in your hands that this will be to the benefit of the public interest? The SYRIZA government, despite the pressures of the troika, ensured public character. I will not go into - for reasons of time - what Mr Hatzidakis is constantly applauding for the DESFA: it is a low-level argument, it has responded tens of times and I think it does not honour him to continue. The question remains: based on the profitability and ability to develop infrastructure on the part of IPTO, why do you intend to sell? Does the 24% holder push you? So your rhetoric, which is far from reality, is just as hypocritical on the subject of the environment. It's not the first environmental bill. It was before this "INVENT IN THE GREECE". Make huge doro for communications mainly because you know how to accelerate liberation. You are not going to speed up anything until there is no serious planning to replace the local lignite economy with other economic activities, not subsidised, military policies, but a replacement with other key activity. Mr Mitsotakis has announced the speeding up of degreasing, without any other planning, for a problem that is extremely difficult and unresolved, not only here, but also in Europe. There has been an entire debate for years and measures are being taken in the light of liberation. Well, two things happen: Whether Europeans drown in a water spoon or you're actually scientists in sloppyness and sloppyness or hurry to serve as - as interests. So you're cutting yourself off for climate change, but all the bills you bring, with the top of the present, are moving towards deregulation of environmental protection. At a time when, throughout the world, with the exception of perhaps the USA of Trump, environmental legislation is being tightened up, you legislate deregulation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u390	One.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u391	I'm done. What does that mean? It means quite simply that speeding up the defoliation that you are working on, not only is it not going to take place, but it is even worse for ligniteification to be the 'valves' of a generally anti-environmental policy. You are using green growth to kill the environment, and it is such hypocrisy that many, your MPs and ministers have not once and twice in recent months escaped them and openly argue that environmental protection has prevented investment for so many years. Where did this come from? What study says it? Let me tell you an existing study, an OECD report on administrative burdens on investment in Greece. This study was proposed here in Greece by the then Minister for Administrative Reform Kyriakos Mitsotakis and according to this report, environmental legislation is the lowest of all administrative burdens, with just 4.24%. In conclusion, because of no evil defects of goodness, the pandemic gave at least two healthy perceptions, threatened by your own political and political perceptions. One is the irreplaceable value of the public health system - even Mr Mitsotakis admitted it - and the second is the self-evident truth about the supreme good, life. But, as life is supremely good, it is equally supreme and the quality of life, the environment, to maintain what is left, what we have inherited, to deliver to our children, from industrialisation and the commercialisation of many fields for the future. Even from a purely economic point of view, because you are involved with investment, the environment we have in Greece - and it is very special - is one of its so-called comparative advantages, both for economic reasons and for investment. Therefore, a regime of environmental immunity is being created in order to favour good investment, but in the long term you are doing exactly the opposite: you are undermining the country's advantages. The only countries that have the comparative advantage of environmental convenience in investment today are African, Latin American countries and go by and say. Even they change. Not even one in Europe. Just one example. Mr Hatzidakis says that there are European countries where environmental permits do not have a time limit. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u392	Finish, Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u393	It's right, but it underestimates our intelligence for this simple reason. In the countries to which Mr Hatzidakis refers, there are mechanisms for monitoring implementation. Here, in Greece, we have renewal of licences as a substitute, since there are no serious control mechanisms. Bring control mechanisms and we'll talk about it. You have not downloaded a new control mechanism in the bill, which you have brought. So where do we end up? To immunity. One last, Mr President. Legislation with uncontrolled expansion of wind parks, without yet modern spatial planning that covers the country. Throughout western Europe they do not put wind parks in areas of natural beauty and over a thousand metres. In the Alps, for example, you haven't seen wind parks. If the Alps had the misfortune to be in Greece, the government of Mr.Mitsotakis would have "fucked" them on the ridges with wind lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u394	Thank you, too. We're closing the meeting with Mr. Maximos Sedetakis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u395	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the political substance of the bill brought by the Ministry of the Environment, but also to the procedure by which it was brought, which SYRIZA has made a flag of opportunity during the debate in the Commission, but also here today, in plenary, allow me a little comment on the pandemic that has been holding us for a month and a half in our homes. I come from Heraklion and bring you a climate of reflection, but also optimism. The discussion is expected. It results from the fact that the economy of the county is largely based on tourism and, therefore, there are fellow citizens who are concerned about their future. However, optimism is not expected, but it arises because, despite the difficulties we have to overcome, my fellow citizens find that something important has changed and the change is that there is at last a government that designs and implements, which sets targets and succeeds them, which trusts experts and explains, which is convinced and accountable. And if so far the existence of problems has been known to the citizens, their methodological approach is unprecedented. This creates a new relationship of trust between a citizen and a state, which, despite anticipated reflection, gives rise to an unexpected optimism. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is another element that allows citizens to maintain their optimism. Why? Because it is part of the economic recovery plan, which we urgently need for the next day. This plan is simple in its arrest. It aims to create a pro-investment climate in order to attract the necessary investments, which and new wealth produce and create new jobs. Isn't that an emergency? It's urgent. I wonder: Can we hope to attract investment, when environmental licensing, in many cases, takes two to three thousand days, when in European countries it is given a hundred to fifty days? Can we hope for an increase in agricultural production, when seventy thousand agricultural families are hostages to the forestry maps established by SYRIZA? Can we hope to pass on to the era of renewable energy, when we are licensed photovoltaic and windy in four and eight years? Can we hope to attract quality tourism, when in most parts of the country's natural beauty this unexploited situation with garbage and balls, which are thrown into mountains, streams, rivers and seas, prevails? Ladies and gentlemen, this situation must be changed immediately and it is not just economical, it is cultural, because it does not respect its environment, it is not called civilised. Some of the officers will say: are you talking about the environment? The answer is: Yes, gentlemen, we are talking about the environment and we are talking about this bill here. It speaks of our Prime Minister, who is considered the 'green' Prime Minister of Europe. The Minister speaks, Kostis Hatzidakis, who together with the Prime Minister had the political courage to ignore the political costs and put an end to the production of lignite. Of course he speaks in his own name of the bill, which incorporates European practices and guidelines for sustainable development, with respect and protection of nature in the environment. Especially for NATURA, which accounts for 30% of the Greek territory, we are applying the models of Austria, Ireland and Finland. You cannot, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, have the sole and exclusive prerogative of environmental sensitivity and do not have it in these countries. I'm not talking about us, 'cause I'm not gonna convince you, obviously. You cannot today invoke this exclusiveity when you have ruled and the bills from your environmental sensitivity come one - one more to the citizens. Because you know this and the citizens, who understood your hollows 'the big words', came here today to tell us about your other exclusive sensitivity, your democratic one. Yes, you have all the monopolies: Monopoly in social sensitivity, monopoly in environmental sensitivity, monopoly and democratic sensitivity. And what did you say? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] First, you described the bill as an unprecedented environmental crime and accused the minister that this retina, this bruise will never leave. Otherwise, you call yourself a party of power with a social democratic orientation. Secondly, you asked for his withdrawal because - he says - the process and democracy were violated, as the bill came here, while the House is not fully operational. Obviously, that did not happen. However, in order not to confuse the world with the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and the relevant two simple questions that everyone understands: Firstly, how long do you think the House should not legislate? How long can we not make decisions on the next day, which we all recognise will be difficult? Secondly, you say that there is no urgent matter. Really? Isn't it urgent to organize for the next day? Are we going to sit there and talk? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u396	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u397	You blame the government for not discussing the bill and brought it out of surprise. But how long are you gonna make fun of the world? Don't you know the bill has been discussed since last October? Do you not know that the Ministry in an unprecedented process - which you ultrasensitive environmentalists did not realize to do - heard of all environmental organisations? Do you not know that there was a second consultation, immediately after the draft was presented at the end of February, and that when this consultation was finished, another one was launched for the two European directives? How do you blame the government for surpriseing through pandemic? And how - worse - do you blame her for an anti-democratic offense and a parliamentary diversion, when we are here, when the Minister is here? He also accepted your comments, brought legislative improvements, to see them, Mr Famele, and wherever you ask will be made and...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u398	When did this happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u399	Please don't interrupt, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u400	Now it's done, Mr. Femmelle. He brought them to you. I am afraid that after your environmental hypersensitivity you have exhausted your democratic hypersensitivity, and all you have left is insurmountable and majestic. Keep it up. You're good for us. We'll do our job. In the hollow words yours will be answered by legislative work to make projects in the country to make jobs for people to find jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u401	Thank you, too. The debate is closed on the principle of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Modernisation of environmental legislation, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directives 2018/844 and 2019/692 of the European Parliament and of the Council and other provisions’. A request for a roll-call vote has been submitted by Members of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, which will take place tomorrow, May 5, 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S2-commons.u402	With the consent of this House at 21.25 minutes the sitting is closed for Monday, May 4, 2020, at 21.26', on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
