ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u2	Reports completed. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that three questions will be discussed today. The second question under number 198/25-11-2020 of the first cycle of MP B1' North Athens of the Change Movement Mr.Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Procedure for payment of compensation to the Municipality of Heraklion" will not be discussed after consultation. Before we move on to the debate on the first topical question, I have the honour of announcing the following to the House: The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance "Summary of smuggling - Clearance of the Protocol on the Elimination of Illicit Trade in Smoke, provisions on public property and commentary heritage, provisions on traffic charges and tax charges, incentives to attract tax residents". We enter the debate of the first under number 197/25-11-2020 on the first cycle of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theophilos Xanthopoulou to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "Direct suspension of the provisions of Law 4745/20 with the suffocating deadlines for the redefinition of the pending cases of the Katseli Act in the midst of a pandemic". Mr. Xanthopoulou's timely question will be answered by the Minister of Justice Mr. Konstantinos Tsiaras. Here, Mr. Xanthopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, very recently, in spite of the reaction of the Opposition and the social actors, the government majority voted for the provisions on shortening deadlines and the diversification of the procedure in the pending proceedings under Law 3869, which has prevailed to be called 'Katsellis - Stathakis'. We said then that these deadlines are suffocating, that we are essentially transferring the burden of responsibility to the applicants, who have very serious problems in bringing together the number of supporting documents required, so that they can update their pending application. The majority rejected the objections and reproach of the Opposition and voted for the law. But the greedy reality comes and overthrows everything. Today the country crosses the second wave of pandemic. We're already in a lockdown, which we don't know how long it will last. Already the deadline for updating with effect from 1 December was suspended on the basis of the CRL for the seven days - only for seven days - and the sixty-day deadline 'current' for gathering the supporting documents. We all realise that under the specific circumstances it is extremely difficult for the overwhelming majority of the applicants, who are usually private - usually, rather commonly, individuals - to enter the process and collect all necessary documents, especially under the specific circumstances. My question therefore, and my request, is to suspend the application of the law at least for as long as the pandemic lasts, so that the rightholders can exercise their duties in safety conditions for them, but also for the traders in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u4	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u5	Mr. colleague, L.3869/2010, the famous to all of us law Katselis, attempted to resolve at that very difficult time, at that very difficult period of the economic crisis, a huge social issue: the overboring of the Greeks, the abundance of late debts and the threatened loss of their assets, especially the first residence. It was a law found to have weaknesses. However, you know, the New Democracy then voted for him. Do you want me to remind you, in order of things, that SYRIZA, loyal to the beginning of his permanent refusal, then did not vote for him? Because now, apparently, you too are coming to become many other honors of this law. This is, of course, not an originality, because you have recently not voted for the reduction in employers' contributions. I say this because it is good to see social sensitivity. However, the social sensitivity of a Latin card seems to me to be more illustrious, despite the real interest of a party, which was a government some time ago, for Greek citizens and Greek society. So let's go see. Mr.3869 - I want to be honest - did not have the intentions or the targeting. Where's he been? What was the problem? The problem was the procedural and procedural problems created and, of course, the burden which existed in the courts as a whole. In July 2019, that is, a year and a half ago, there were more than 100 thousand cases pending before the pacifist courts which, you know, some of them were identified to be tried after 2032. I would like to tell you that your government - I mean the SYRIZA government - was the one that had undertaken to eliminate, eliminate all the pending cases of Katseli law by the end of 2021. We, Mr President, have responded to this obligation to protect the country's credibility, but above all to protect good borrowers effectively. With the provisions of the law to which you referred and recently voted, by Law No 4745, on speeding up the trial of these pending cases, that is exactly what we are trying to do. I would also like to point out that with the platform designed by the Special Secretariat for the Management of Private Debt, this speeding up of cases is ensured and, of course, unnecessary bureaucracy is limited. The design, in fact, is such that - and I think we have said so many times - the objections were at another level - which really facilitates the borrower. Because automatedly, following the request for the redefinition of the applicant, the borrower will be able to recover the necessary tax and bank data to determine his case in court. It will thus avoid long waiting and suffering in various services, as well as in banking institutions. Only the deadline - I want to make it clear - of the mere electronic request for redefinition on the platform has not been suspended. It's an electronic process. Only this has not been suspended and I imagine it is understandable that even during the Lockdown period an electronic process can be supported. This is because, on the one hand, the submission of the request for redefinition, as I have told you, is made very simplified by electronic means through the platform designed by the Special Secretariat for the Management of Private Debts and, on the other hand, because there is no need for the applicant to present any other document at the time the request was made on the electronic platform. The other deadlines of the law and, of course, the deadlines for the submission of the proposals under Article 4 of the new law, of Law No 4745, within which applicants must produce the documents referred to therein, you know very well that they are suspended, as are all other legal and judicial deadlines for the duration of the exceptional arrangements due to the COVID pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u6	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u7	The parties therefore enjoy - and I close, Mr President - the necessary protection, with the time necessary to produce and complete the file of their proposals with all the documents required, even if they go back to the ultimate past and must naturally be sought from the archives of the public services. I think things are clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u8	Minister, please close. We have a bill then.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u9	No Greek citizen is restricted. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Blondopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u11	I shall return, Minister, because we have discussed them both often in the Commission. It is obvious that the deadline for 2021 is a commitment of the SYRIZA Government. There is a state and it certainly commits the next government. But that cannot be an alibi for citizens to lose their rights. There were ways, in our view. In any case, we are not the government. You choose and that is why you will be judged. What I want to say, however, is that there are exceptional circumstances, Minister. We are no longer in regularity. As the Prime Minister said until 31 December, the auctions, which were not suspended until 31 December, will be suspended, therefore, in these exceptional circumstances we call for the law to be suspended. That's the first. Secondly, in these exceptional circumstances - you see, the famous 3.5% has been suspended - we can as a country as an economy make additional costs precisely because there are exceptional circumstances. What is this terrible quarter, the four-month period that will prevent you from suspending the application of the law, so that the applicants can exercise their rights unnecessarily? Finally, let me say this, Minister. The deadline for seven days was certainly suspended, but the presentation of supporting documents remains a procedural part of the case. It's been sixty days. The sixty days are running. We must not put the people in a position to collect them and in the process to produce them in physical form. So - I say again - these prevailing conditions enable your Government to suspend the application of the law until the end of the pandemic. It will be a demonstration of empathy in a winter part of the Greek people. Therefore, I do not understand your insistence that the deadlines be "current" under these circumstances, whereas, in fact, people are in danger of losing their homes if it is found that they have been unacceptably applied for.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u12	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u13	Mr Colleague, first of all it honours you to recognise the obligation of the previous government. This is because most of your colleagues, when we pointed out that this country's obligation comes from a specific time period of the previous government, whether they were indifferently whistling or trying not to accept a reality that is very well known to everyone. We know that by a specific decision of the European Commission, there has been a commitment since July 2018 that by the end of 2021 all outstanding cases of the Katseli Act will have been closed. However, I repeat once again that the fact that you recognise it personally. Apart from anything else, however, we need to see what the big picture is. Once again, I would like to say that in addition to the process of obligation to submit electronics on the platform which has been opened since 1 December, that is, since yesterday, all the other deadlines have been suspended.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u14	For a week, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u15	It's not a week. There's gonna be a new NSA, you know that. There is a commitment from the Prime Minister of the country that no auction will take place while lockdown lasts. You know, I don't think we need to repeat them, nor are they - if you like - the opportunity to compare to data that we know there are and which the entire Greek society knows about. From there on, as a legal person you know very well that not to produce any further supporting documents is not inadmissible and you know that very well. Therefore, we do not raise such objections in a case which is answered. I say this because we all know that, through the platform, this crowding will be avoided, that is not to say not to fill up the bottles with virtually non-existent assumptions, which - as you know - already have many or, in many cases, the creditors have compromised with the debtors - and that is what is known - or, of course, because they are strategic malpractices, who have worked the law and now have nothing to do with them. So we must take the first step to clear up a landscape in order to know what the follow-up is and what the obligation will be for the peace tribunals in the country, which have been burdened with most of these cases. And, of course, on this occasion, I would like to call on all the obligors concerned not to mobilise, not to omit and rush to make the e-mail application so that their affairs can be brought to justice as soon as possible so that they can get rid of the burden of their particular economic loose ends and reprogramming their lives free of whatever burden. Look, the government is not here with any punishment, especially at a time when we know that we must show social sensitivity and, above all, take the necessary steps to support Greek citizens and Greek society in a truly difficult situation. I believe that the sensitivity of the Prime Minister, but also of course of all the members of the government, has been demonstrated in different times to date through specific options and through these welfare measures. Finally, I would like to assure you that the effort that is even being made to develop the Katselis law which we recently voted on in the Greek Parliament is primarily aimed at protecting these people who are entitled to protection. On the other hand, it goes without saying that it must dismantle the area of justice, but above all it must create the conditions for Greece to operate through the European Convention on Human Rights, since you realise that even the time of the judiciary is one of the issues on which we must at some point justify our own position, but above all support the direction of the serious presence of the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u16	We move to the first with number 209/30-11-2020 on the second question of the second question of the MP Arta of the Change Movement Mr Christos Gokas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Collection and disposal of mandarins in the Regional Unity (PE)". Here, Mr Goka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, my timely question concerns the very serious problem that the citrus growers in Arta are currently facing, but also in many other regions of our country, especially in relation to mandarins, starting with the variety of clementines, since we are in the harvest season, and the other varieties of mandarins follow. The orange harvest period with navalines has also begun. But the situation, Minister, is frustrating and the producers are really desperate. Prices for mandarins are very low, degrading, I would say, half of last year's price for the producer. It is not even 13 minutes enough for the producer, while demand is low, since one third to half of the production for clementines should have been harvested. Similar prices in oranges are reduced by 30% compared with last year and there is no similar demand. The problem concerns both exports and internal consumption. It is well known, Minister, that there are problems with competition from third countries and also from European countries such as Spain, which, due to high production and problematic products, have quite low prices, while in our country there are also very cheap mandarins from countries whose products have been banned from entering other countries and, indeed, Balkan countries. Furthermore, it is well known that we have sub-consumption within due to the outbreak of the pandemic and Lockdown, while the focus is not working, and of course there is no tourist movement. Minister, especially for mandarins, the harvest period is very short and although it is of high quality, they are at risk of being left unfit. But also because of the forthcoming rainfall and climate conditions if not available, fungi will soon be developed that will destroy production. So, Minister, producers are in danger of staying without any income, so I ask you this timely question: What action do you intend to take as a Ministry to deal with these problems relating to mandarin producers and, more generally, citrus fruit producers and to make them available to the internal market, as well as to exports? What solutions can be taken in relation to price competitiveness? Secondly, how do you intend to substantially support the income of producers on the part of the Ministry of Development and Food and other financial programmes? Is it also your intention to cover the loss of income from European programmes such as the 'DE MINIMIS'? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u18	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Comrade, this is about the Ministry's surveillance. This issue has already been raised. Apart from you today who put this right in your question, other colleagues have also put it, such as Mr Stylis and Mr Yoyakas, to whom I see an interest in your timely question and came to follow it. Look, what we are doing is that we follow closely the way in which the market and the movement of these products are shaped, as in all products. The truth is that there has indeed been a reduced export movement for these products, and we should therefore further monitor how matters are going to develop. I would like to say two things, because I want to be clear and very unequivocal on these issues. Firstly, it is very important, even if our producers do not find purchasers at the prices they would like to have, because we have a record of the reduced price and also of the movement. If they are not available, then there is no entry and then it makes it difficult to assess and assess what we have to do. So the first thing I'm saying is that, regardless of the difficulty of honour, our producers must do everything they can to make the products available. We are watching price developments, but it is important that this should be done. The second thing I want to say to you is - and this is also what I want it to be an estate of Parliament, but above all of the producers - that we are not strengthening ourselves in the case of the trade disturbance. This must be made clear. This cannot be done because this is a violation of the rules of the internal market and of competition. We should therefore every time see whether this really reduced demand, which appears at export level, is due to the restrictive measures we have taken because of the coronary. In citrus fruits there has been a significant period where we have had a spectacular increase in exports. They went very well. There is now a fall in demand. So we need to see the causes of this downturn, which we are studying. If we find that the reduction in this demand is justified, therefore, the reduction in prices, because of the restrictive measures we have taken for the coronary, then we will be entering the state aid procedure, as we have said, for a number of other products. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I will not take time. I'll only need ten seconds to finish my thoughts. But I would point out this: it is very important, because you mentioned import issues, that plant health controls are carried out with great rigour, and, if you like, that the right orders have been given in this direction, but that does not mean that imports can be excluded, which are, in the end, legally carried out. As for the rest and the way in which we deal with the questions of aid to our producers during the pandemic period and in general, I shall speak in my second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u21	Minister, the purpose of my question is to highlight the problem for producers of Arta and other regions and the need to provide solutions. The state must help. We must protect production, support the difficult effort of producers in every way. There's got to be backup. As the situation has been shaped, methods of financial support need to be found. You mentioned a framework. I hope in your dentistry you're more detailed. These crops already have a high cost of production. The problem is not only about family survival, because of a lack of income, but also about the inability to continue to produce. So it's very important. And even to produce high-quality products in prefectures such as Arta, which are based on the primary sector. The problems in other sectors are known, in livestock farming, in livestock farming, in aquaculture and in other production. It is true that the primary sector was not based on the extent that either aid or financial programmes should be given to date because of the health crisis. There is therefore a need for brave support to continue to be the pillar for productive and development reconstruction that we want for our country. We should therefore see how we strengthen this product. I would like you to see the margins and possibilities of the product being made available to various social groups, multiple families, schools, military, so that production is not lost and not devalued. I agree that production should go away, but I repeat the prices that are degrading, that is, 23 minutes to 25 minutes in trade, instead of 35 to 38 minutes last year. For the producer, however, the price of last year is twice the price, because the same amount is deducted for the workers. The same is true of oranges where prices range 30% less than last year. However, despite the fact that producers want to give the mandarins, and of course they want to give them at good prices and that makes sense, even 10% of production has not left yet. I mean, in certain areas, where they loaded ten to twelve trucks a day, Minister, they only load one. They're expecting fifty-sixty producers and leaving unrealistic. In relation to increased production and small fruit products in Spain, as you know, they enter at low prices. The products come from third countries such as Morocco, and all these products from third countries are expected to have easier penetration in Britain. In other words, the prospects for there to be a demand for citrus fruits are decreasing. From what I have seen in recent days' publications on agricultural publications, Minister, concerning fruit and vegetables, mainly mandarins and oranges from Turkey in large quantities and very low prices, where imports into other European Union countries, including Balkan countries, have been banned due to a high presence of pesticides. I would like you to tell us in your dentistry more about what has happened. How has oranges been allowed to be made available to our country and whether they have been imported? What action do you intend to take to protect the health of consumers and Greek products? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Another point, Mr Minister, is that there seems to be a request to the producer groups. On this occasion, I would like you to take initiatives for effective support with information and assistance from legal, technological and economic groups, so that the setting-up of producer groups can proceed, because it will help to deal effectively with these products. Above all, Mr Minister, the citrus producers and the production of citrus fruit must now be supported. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u22	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, I would like us to coordinate on the basic principles of agricultural policy, which, as you know, is very much European policy and is bound and determined by the general guidelines of the common agricultural policy, but also by the rules on competition in the internal market. These are the two realities that we have to say and say them again and explain them to the producers, why? Because it is important to coordinate, because this is how producers will coordinate, and Greek production will coordinate in this direction, which is ultimately the only sustainable direction, namely the creation of a sustainable, competitive high quality, increased standardisation, increased value-added agriculture. If this is not done, do not believe - I hope that no one in this Chamber believes - that with any aid, we will solve structural problems in Greek production. But I come to this. In this particular case, which you are telling me, I would like you not to question - I imagine you are not in doubt - the government's intention, because not in the words, in practice the intention has been expressed. The intention has been expressed with EUR 363,442,806 in aid this year. This was done without precedent. Of course without precedent is the coronary. But the intention has been expressed. Literally there is no product that has suffered pressure and damage because of the restrictive measures we have taken to treat the coronary, which has not been strengthened. I only list them - and so I leave the aid we have given to the greenhouses of Crete through the 'DE MINIMIS', the beet and the cotton of Evros: Coastal fishermen, the growers, the sheep and goat farmers, the sprainers, the farmers of the people's markets, the fur animals for which they are now in the process of getting the money, the spring potatoes, the greenhouse tomatoes, the greenhouses of Crete, the aubergines, the early watermelons, the Kalamari olives, our wine producers, but also the 'green harvest', our big fisheries and we are now examining the aid to the greenhouses in the rest of Greece, the seeds, the summer fruits, the summer fruits and vegetables. Of course, it is also fish farming for which a measure is still pending for us to be approved by the European Commission. There is no branch that we find to be under pressure - and I stress it, I am not just saying requests because we have rejected requests and I want to be clear, we have rejected requests as well, because we have to find the disturbance because of the coronary - that it has been damaged and has not been supported. This - I want you to be sure - will also apply to the case that we are now discussing, for citrus fruits in this period. Of course, we will expect to see how the market as a whole will evolve. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I don't know if I have a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u24	You have one, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. But you told me about the subject of controls. I would like to tell you this: Controls are carried out at the entrance, but - and I would also like to clarify - we are not doing any checks on commercial competition, because that would be a violation of the competition principles. We're doing phytosanitary checks to protect public health. These checks are made whether prices are high, whether prices are low, whether there is demand or no demand. We do not connect commercial competition to the protection of public health and checks at the entrances of the country. These checks are done uninterruptedly and in any case. And I want to assure you of that. Indeed, there is an increase in imports. In 2019, imports of mandarins amounted to three hundred and twenty-nine tons. From 1-1-2020 until now it has reached two thousand forty-four. Same goes for the lemons. The import lemons were twenty - one thousand nine hundred nineteen tons, and this year they went up to twenty - six thousand six hundred thirty - four. Imports to oranges are at three thousand two hundred and fifty - eight tons, and this year we have reached four thousand four hundred thirty - three. There is therefore an increase in imports. The increase in these imports I want to assure you that it does not mean that we have relaxed controls at the points of entry of the country, but to a large extent in the previous period, because there were very large exports of our citrus fruits at high prices, so this was supplemented by a demand and an internal introduction, an increase in imports. Ours came out at much better prices and there was a replacement for demand in the internal market by imports. So these are the commercial phenomena we will have.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u26	You're closing up with this, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u27	I would like to assure you that in any case we are monitoring the market and once it is found that there is a disturbance due to the restrictive measures that we have taken on the coronary, we will intervene to support our producers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u28	We move to the third with No 205/30-11-2020 a top-level question for the first cycle of the Eastern Attica of Mera25 Mr. Maria Apatzides to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "Determination of the General Secretariat of the Evian Hellenism." The timely question will be answered by the State Secretary, Mr Konstantinos Vlassis. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in the context of the public consultation of the draft law on the organisation and operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the government's intention to merge the General Secretariat of Greek Prime Minister with the General Secretariat of Public Diplomacy of Consular and Religious Affairs became known. The General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic was founded in 1983 and until then it was a public independent administrative department under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Apart from the actual deforestation of its human resources since 2010, with voluntary retirements in the Memorandum years not to be replaced by a similar number of new entrants, everything that was previously self-interested in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - which was supervising - was degraded, effectively losing the independence and, above all, the self-evidence it had previously had. Any self-sufficientness of the once General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic at budgetary level and the determination of expenditure - actions will be brought to an end, with a substantial downgrading to a mere address and hence a more direct dependency and affiliation to the political leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It goes without saying that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Nicos Dendias, in a letter sent to a series of large organizations of the family in the summer, called this rapid downgrading. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The direction was won by personalities such as Manolis Velivakis, former President of the World Council of Criters and political engineer, who sent a letter to the Prime Minister in the summer, Dr. Spyros Mezistis - your tolerance, Mr. President - Professor at the Medical School of the University of Cornell and President of the Federation of Greek Medical Associations of North America and others. These developments take place at the same time as the right to vote or rather to facilitate the exercise of the right to vote in the Hellenic Republic, with the forthcoming elections to constitute the first electoral record of the results of this initiative - in which PART25 has proposed a fully documented law proposal for a more substantial, more operational and more democratic guarantee of the exercise of the right of vote of the Falling Greeks, which the Government rejected - with which it intensifys and strengthens the right to vote and of de facto political intervention of the Deceased Greeks in the current political reality of Greece. One would expect this development, given the increased coordination needs it creates, to be followed by the upgrading of the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic. But we, and many representatives of the family, find the opposite. Despite ministerial assurances, the reasonable question arises as to whether there is a feasibility in degradation, especially when it involves much more direct control of the political leadership in the sometimes independent service, the feasibility of guidance on developments and coordination, in view of the next national elections and the participation of the De-democrat Hellenism in them. In view of the above, is the Minister asking: What is the logic behind its absorption to date of an independent General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic in the broader Secretariat of Public Diplomacy and De-Democratic Hellenism, as well as its imminent further degradation, which the Government presents as an upgrade and, in particular, in view of the increased gravity of the presence of de-democratic Hellenism for political things within Greece, in the context of facilitating the right to vote for the aberrations? Secondly, how can the Minister ensure the proper functioning of the services related to the democratization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, when the human resources have been dispersed to an impressive extent?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u30	Mrs. Apajidis, pick up a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u31	I'm sorry, Mr. President, just a minute and I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u32	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u33	How does the Minister intend to respond to the need to strengthen the former incomplete General Secretariat, in view of the new political role of the Undemocratic Hellenism for the Hellenic Republic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u34	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Fellow, De-Christian Hellenism is undoubtedly a valuable chapter for our country and the tightening and deepening of relations with the Greeks of the diaspora is a strategic priority of this government, and that is why we are working systematically. It started with the previous State Secretary, Mr Diadiaris, and I believe that I shall continue in the same way. So the creation of the new General Secretariat of Public Diplomacy and by-democrat Hellenism is an institutional section, firstly, because the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic, although it operated under the umbrella of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, was not part of its organizational agenda and we are now coming to give solutions to this. Secondly, this unification creates a new strong General Secretariat, which coordinates and implements in a uniform and effective way all the actions and functions that serve the needs of the Greeks abroad and internally, namely consular, religious, educational and cultural issues. It is also possible, by means of this merger, to strengthen the general secretariat with new human resources from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - and I quote that, because you have spoken about deforestation of human resources - so that it can continue to function properly, given the reduction in staff from their retirement. In addition, particularly important in the current context, this is the following: this new general secretariat, through public diplomacy, promotes the country's fair positions and enhances the international image of our country. In this effort, as it is known, Deputy Hellenism and unscrupulous homosexuality play a major role. This is also an additional reason why we decided and included in the area of responsibility of the General Secretariat, together with Depopulated Hellenism and Public Diplomacy, an area that aims to draw up and implement a targeted communication policy, which will promote the official positions of the country and also at any time counter the negative impressions created by the dispersion of false news. So let me mention, taking into account all of the above, that not only are we talking about the degradation of the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic, but rather about upgrading it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u36	Mrs. Apajidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I listened very carefully. With the recent government's legislative initiative, Greeks have the right to vote and participate in the national elections. As a result, some questions arise: Is this just a population scattered in other states, without the need for this population to maintain a relationship with our democracy beyond that of voting, or are it emigrant Greeks whom we are striving to maintain in a live relationship with our country and what is happening today in our country at every level? Do we have a two-way relationship with our relatives or do we just do some programs confronting them as objects? Is there any provision for the political integration of the Migrant Greeks, who are now able to exercise their electoral right or are they solely responsible, that is to say that this is another issue of individual responsibility? The previous questions raise a central issue regarding the relationship between the Hellenic Republic and the Hellenic Republic, in the new chapter that has now been opened since Greeks abroad can now exercise their right to vote. At this point it is worth a brief reference to the counter-proposal of the law tabled by Mera25 in the parliamentary debate on this legislative initiative, which, unfortunately, was not accepted in order to be discussed in plenary by the Greek Parliament. This proposal provided for seven constituencies of the Greek Degree, distinct regions, with their own vote and candidates for the areas where they live, work and divest Greeks abroad. Finally, not only did the invitation to them to vote for one or other candidate party in the constituency from which they left for years or decades ago, but it should be pointed out that the acceptance of the vote on the electoral law on the part of the family was taken as a first step towards the implementation of this long-standing request, in the hope that after the first experience the law on facilitating the exercise of the electoral right would be amended and taken into account by the demands and proposals of the organizations of the Democrat Hellenism. In this fundamental error of the then bill, which is now the law of the state, about the right to vote for the expatriates and which maintains the relationship between the Hellenic Republic and the Greek Republic, an imbalance arises: the limitation of any self-sufficiency left to the once General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic, the shrinking and further deterioration of it into a simple address. The government's legislative initiative is a step away from the demands of the Democrat Hellenism. At the same time, the modulation of this framework is seen: Initially with the law on their right to vote, the dissidents will come to vote not as people with a centre of their lives and their activity in the country of abroad where they live, but as indifferent members of any constituencies within the Greek territory and then the deterioration of the General Secretariat of the Greek Republic. The focus will not be on the ties of the Failed Greeks with their homeland, as well as their relations with each other, but on their direct dependence and dependence on the political leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The previous ones, in fact, take place at the same time as the education structures of the Greeks abroad are under-funded, especially after the decade of the memorandum. The underfunding of these structures, the lack of staff and resources undermines the ties of Greek first generation migrants with their country of origin, as well as the strengthening of the Greek identity of the second or third generation homosexuals. The same applies to the programmes and courses of Greek studies at the universities abroad. I'm not going to expand right now. All this, however, reveals distortions and imbalances that undermine our project to incorporate and accept the Migrant Greeks as active members in the Greek democratic process. Minister, the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic is the most recognizable service of the Greek state.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u38	Mrs Apajidis, we will not now make an analysis of what it is. Question, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u39	Your tolerance, Mr President, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u40	You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u41	The relationship between decades of the General Secretariat and the executive capacity with the Greek counterparts of the world, through the present autonomy of the General Secretariat, was immediate, inmediate, substantial, productive and effective, having offered numerous national benefits, both for Greece and for the Greek diaspora. We call for consideration to be given, Minister, and for the proposals of the migrating authorities not to continue to be heard and for the degradation of the General Secretariat of De-Democrat Hellenism not to continue. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor. Even though you were quite clear, here you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u43	Mrs Apatzides, I am really surprised that you are talking about the vote of the Greeks abroad, when you are the only party that did not vote for the law that we brought to Parliament, which I will accept was certainly not what we wanted to vote on. We said from the outset that we wanted to facilitate the vote of all Greeks abroad, wherever they are, even by written vote, and who now have the possibility if they take the plane and come to Greece to vote. It may not be the bill that came to Parliament what we wanted, but we could not close our eyes and say 'no' in the first step. This "no" you said, the only party that voted against this law and now you come and favor Greeks abroad. So, as a government, we really show the enormous interest in the Hellenism of abroad, which we really consider to be an extremely valuable chapter. The law to facilitate the vote of Greek foreigners was one of all the steps we have taken throughout this period to really show what we feel and how we want to express our interest in Greeks abroad. Apart from this, however, we have also advanced the digitisation of consular services and various creative initiatives by the General Secretariat of Public Diplomacy and by Presidential Hellenism and many others, which demonstrate in practice the importance we attach to forging confidence relations between Greece and the Federal Republic of Germany. But let me also turn to another point, which you have mentioned several times and which relates to the establishment of the new General Secretariat. The merger that you are looking for in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in fact creates an overline, as I have said before, in which, above all, the officials who existed before will also have a deep-trained staff. We are talking about the diplomatic sector with its worthy members, as well as the communication consultants. All of these now fall under this General Secretariat, and I think that this multi-collective group of people under the direction of political leadership is now a dynamic human arsenal of knowledge and experience. The pandemic, unfortunately, my fellow Member, does not allow us to be alive near our fellow citizens. We do, however, and be sure of that every effort to strengthen their ties with the mother country. We are being informed, documenting weaknesses, working hard to solve their problems. I would also like to raise the issue of consular procedures here. We are trying and digging every day more and more in this effort the newly established General Secretariat of Public Diplomacy and Democrat Hellenism makes a decisive contribution to a coherent approach to the issues of the Homogeneity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u44	Well, thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Although the two rapporteurs of the first two parties, New Democracy and Syriza, are in the Chamber, like the government, we will be interrupting five minutes, the other speakers and rapporteurs will come. I don't like this picture of the Chamber when we're going to discuss a pretty serious bill. The time is 10.05. We will start at 10.15' and the parliamentary groups that are following, notify their speakers and their parliamentary representatives to come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. It is known in this House that the Ministers for Civil Protection, Economic, Development and Investment, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime, Rural Development and Food, State, the Deputy Minister of Finance and the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection submitted a draft law on 30-11-20: "Confidentiality Regulations, Provisions on the Welfare Fund, Security Officers and other provisions on the responsibility of the Ministry of Civil Protection". Also, the Ministers for Culture and Sport, Economic, Development and Investment, Protection of the Citizen, Work, Health, Environment and Energy, Justice, Home Affairs, Shipping, the Deputy Minister of Finance, as well as the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, have tabled the 1-12-2020 draft law: "Reorganization of the Archaeological Resources and Expropriations Fund and rename it to an Organisation for the Management and Development of Cultural Resources, the establishment of a legal entity under the name "Museum - Oil Cereals Brana" in the Municipality of Lesvos, the promotion of cultural heritage abroad, arrangements for the historical Museum of Crete and the Museum "Fevos Anonymaki" and other provisions of the Ministry of Culture and Sport." Both are referred to the relevant parliamentary committees. Mr. Andreas Loverdos, I've taken you for years, but the phone demon...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u46	The line's cut!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u47	And I said I was a pig. You understand! Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Summary of smuggling - Validation of the Protocol on the Elimination of Illicit Trade in Smoke, provisions on public property and commentary heritage, provisions on traffic charges and tax charges, incentives to attract tax residents and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 26 November 2020 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, on articles and amendments. In particular, as regards the organisation of the debate, it is proposed, in addition to the rapporteurs, the special speakers, the Parliamentary Representatives, as well as the Ministers who will be involved in a natural presence, to add two courses of speakers to this debate by teleconferencing via the WebEx platform. Each cycle will include twelve speakers with the following analogy: five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the KKE, one from the Greek Solution and one from the Mera25. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u48	The House has agreed. We are starting with the general rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Savvas Anastasiades.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, please, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u50	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u51	My personal feelings to Mr Vésyropoulos and Mr Georgiodas are well known to themselves and to the cooperation we have in the years to come. I honor them for their work and they know it themselves and I declare it directly. But today we are discussing a very serious bill, which, as everyone has said, needs a strong political will. But we come to the press, we don't keep the guy, and I'm not a formalist, but it's the point. I would ask the Minister who has the legislative initiative and has not given it to either Mr Vésiropoulos or Mr Georgioda to be present to initiate a procedure. If it needs to go for a human need, of course, and there is this power, but the bill cannot be discussed without the relevant Minister without the Minister with the legislative initiative. It's unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u52	Good. Your protest is recorded. Of course, there is typically no question of the meeting starting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u53	If they have a legislative initiative, we shall not proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Vessiropoulos will answer that. I've been here for thirty years, don't tell me that the ministers are always here, so we don't go crazy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u55	The New Democracy raised the issue...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u56	All right, we heard you, recorded. Mr. Vesyropoulos will answer and we'll start. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor. I don't give you time with the request to be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u57	This isn't the first time that this is happening. The process can start, Mr. Stakouras is on his way, and he'll be here in a little while. I do not think there is any reason to delay the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u58	Good. There's no reason to waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, we are not listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u61	Let me tell you what I heard. He said at the moment Mr. Stakouras is on his way to the House. As a result, the standard does not exist. Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Soon after that, Mr Pierracakis, who was yesterday in the committee, will also be here. I would also like to inform Members that apart from the presence of Mr Pierracakis who will be here shortly later, although it is an amendment that we are supporting today, the Ministry will be present throughout the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, I would like to speak on the subject that has been raised and you know very well about my presence as Minister in both the timeliness and the bills.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u65	Here, Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u66	The question is whether or not a minister is present at the moment to continue the debate. At a time when it is not a Minister who has this responsibility, to interrupt until the Minister comes, it is a simple matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u67	Mr Alexiadis, don't take it like this, and don't waste time and finish the debate today at 22:00 at night. One Minister is on his way, and the other one that is his amendment does not need to be at the beginning of the bill. The debate on the amendment will be here, as you have heard. I say, first of all, because I know, I have seen the amendment, that - beyond the parliamentary representatives - the rapporteurs-general and the speakers on the amendments if time is not enough for them to be placed on the bill, so they can speak in their dentistry of the amendment. Anyone who wants to talk now can do it, of course. Here, Mr Anastasiades, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr President, after an in-depth debate on the committees, we are now called upon to discuss and ratify the draft law on 'Suspension of smuggling and other provisions'. The bill that comes today for discussion in plenary comes at a very difficult period of protracted uncertainty for the whole planet due to the continued pandemic, but also in the midst of major challenges for managing the problems the pandemic will leave next day. The global recession anticipated by the pandemic creates incentives to increase illegal trade, which is why trafficking in illegal products in recent years has increased both in the European Union and in our country. The government, despite the great difficulties of the health crisis, continues faithfully the reform programme and state modernisation. Such rules are also the bill that we are debating today. The criticism from some aspects that in previous years many bills have come with the same subject, so today's legislation can be of the utmost value, I think it is unsatisfactory. Firstly, because all the previous years' government was not the New Democracy. Secondly, because the need for new legislative initiatives arises from the fact that things are evolving very rapidly and, at the same time, the methods used by the circuits are evolving to deceive the prosecution authorities and the state and to engage in smuggling. Therefore, new adaptations and arrangements are needed to address the new outcomes. That is right, then, for the government and the Treasury - and we must praise it for that - to complete and improve previous provisions and to cover legislative gaps created by reality. It is right to modernise the legislative framework and strengthen the competent prosecution authorities with new tools so that they can restrict and smuggle smuggling. Examples include the increase in consumption of LPG in all uses - heating, traffic and industry - and the major differences in excise duty have created the need to detect these products more easily and to prevent smuggling. In recent years, the economic crisis and the decline in consumer income have led to an increase in the illicit trade in tobacco products in the European Union and, of course, in our country. The state is therefore called upon to find ways to limit it and if it is possible to zero it. The ratification of the Protocol on the Elimination of Illicit Trade in Smoke Products of the Framework Convention of the World Health Organisation pending from 2013 comes to restrict precisely the illegal trade in tobacco products. In the draft law, many of the bodies' proposals were accepted and incorporated into the plan. In the discussions, seventeen bodies were invited and no more than ten were present. In other words, there was a wide-ranging dialogue with all the parties involved in the matter. The conclusions from the debates before the committees are that a common component of all the parties - regardless of whether they vote, reserve or vote against the bill - is the need to stop smuggling, that there is the will, at least theoretical and functional, as has been put forward in the debate, for a single front against illegality. That is why I cannot interpret the attitude of certain parties which are reserved or refuse to vote on this draft law, since they are in fact in agreement with it and its philosophy. I am therefore calling for us to overcome the minor differences that we have between us since, in essence, we agree and can also formally send out a message that is loud and strong in the circuits that the House unanimously or at least by a large majority stands against the crimes of smuggling, crimes against the economy, society, against the health of citizens, against trade and competition and, of course, crimes that presuppose and loss of jobs from the market. The single front against illegality also confirmed the bodies called upon and presented their views to the committee and to the hearing. All of them, despite the individual supplements or comments they made on the draft law, stood positively against the initiative of the Ministry and the Government. Some, in fact, such as the Thessaloniki Venizelosseldorf Association through Mrs Koussi's President, went even further and asked for even more severe penalties for the offenders than the draft law imposes. So this unique opportunity is to be used by the institutions, namely society, and the political system, namely the parties, and to give a strong and resounding signal against illegality for the benefit of society and the citizens. We accept the criticism of individual, perhaps omissions and excesses. But no one is infallible, and in this case we are here to discuss again and to fill in what appears to be necessary to achieve our goal. However, at the heart of the issue, which is the fight against illegality and crime of smuggling, we do not disagree. So what is this reservation or refusal on certain sides to the bill? This position is against both public feeling and society's demand to combat smuggling and illegality. The draft law provides for the operational upgrading of the role of the coordinating operational centre, i.e. the improvement of its operational function. Its powers are extended to products subject to excise duty. The extension of cooperation is also a positive step and development. A register of commercial alcoholic beverages is hereby established in the AIA. An electronic identification system for alcoholic beverages shall be established in the AACC. Thus, when a lot is checked by the prosecution authorities, it can immediately be ascertained from which trader that lot has been placed on the market. An electronic register shall be established in which the fuel storage and handling tanks under a customs procedure are registered. The sealing of the fuel installation shall be provided when an infringement is detected between 10 and 90 days. Some bodies have asked for even stricter penalties for this crime. They shall be improved and added to the new provisions for monitoring the possession, processing and marketing of manufactured tobacco products and update the data recorded and monitored in the Single Central Register of Suppliers of Tobacco and Industrious Tobacco Chain, to the EMEA. A fine shall be imposed to the detriment of the person controlled by the blocking of customs controls and the provisions on the procedure for the destruction of smuggled products shall be supplemented. Some parties have even asked for stricter penalties for this crime. Incentives are also laid down to those who contribute to the facilitation of research. Of course, Minister, we tabled it yesterday - there is a great deal of problem in the intra-Community trade of excise goods and vehicles. The large difference in tax burden on goods with excise duty and on cars between Greece, Bulgaria, Turkey and other neighbouring countries often leads to violations of alcoholic beverages, tobacco, alcoholic beverages and cars. Mr Dessas, President-in-Office of the Council, and Mr Iacovou, Vice-President of the Commission. - (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer. The problem is a big one in the outermost regions and I think that at some point it should also be the state. Finally, I would like to refer to Rule 40. The repatriation of the Greeks who have had to leave the country in the last decade due to the crisis, mainly young and well-trained, was and is a commitment by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the government. The article is a first positive step in this direction, since many are given the opportunity to take advantage of the advantages that this provision gives them and to return home. Mr Minister, it was almost all the institutions and Parliament's aspects that the provisions of the bill should be put into effect immediately. That is what you know very well that it requires a rapid adoption of the ministerial decisions provided for and that is, of course, your responsibility. So please take it seriously and disprove them. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the obstacles and difficulties of the health crisis, the government continues its reform work and is preparing, with the reform and modernisation of the state, to deal with the problems of the next day, the problems that will be left behind by the pandemic. The draft law we are debating and call on us to ratify today in plenary introduce new tools to strengthen operational action in the field of combating smuggling fuels, alcoholic beverages, tobacco products and to consolidate a wide range of cooperation with international organisations to combat smuggling. It is an important initiative by the government on a very serious issue, with global dimensions of social and economic, which requires a broad consensus of will and action. We are voting for it and we call on the other parties to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u69	Well done, Mr Anastasiades, you have saved us time. Mr Alexiadis, general rapporteur, has the floors.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start my speech in a way that may not be used to this House, with my consent to what the rapporteur of the New Democracy said, with my consent that there is a need for Parliament to get out of a message of unity and to create a front against the phenomenon of smuggling, tax evasion, corruption. It is very important that there is the greatest possible consensus on this issue and that we do everything possible to understand that Parliament gives a fight against these issues and along with the entire Greek society wants to close this open wound, which is with timeless political responsibility. I fully agree with him and want this to be recorded. But look at what is political paradox. That is exactly what we have said since the first day in the Committee on Economic Affairs as to what the government should do. We have been calling on the government since the first day to feel the need that the rapporteur of the New Democracy very rightly analyses and gives us answers. There are procedural issues - I will repeat them today - to which the government does not respond. There is information on the smuggling issues we are asking for, but the government is not answering. We are appealing to the government even now, despite the fact that, according to the law on legislation, the Minister - Mr. Besyropoulos has full scientific and professional competence, I know him for years and can stand up to this issue. We're getting beyond the standard point. But imagine what would happen if we did this to SYRIZA! - I repeat, we call on the government, even now, to stand responsibly on this issue, to give the answers it needs and to understand what the major issue is. We, precisely because we understand what the major is, we support the fight against smuggling, we support these provisions. After all, most of them are the evolution or evolution or update of provisions that had begun since our period. I'll say it again. We do not think that the fight against smuggling and tax evasion began when SYRIZA government became or when Alexiadis went to that position. But that is what some in the New Democracy think. That is why I corrected my speech in the Committee on Economic Affairs where I gave the credit to New Democracy and PASOK for what SYRIZA had done before taking over with very good legislation that we completed. Because there were laws from 2010 and 2012 very well, but unfortunately they did not have ministerial decisions, which we either made or implemented. And instead of this logic of assisting the government and of having this message of unanimity and unity, we are swinging our fingers, we are being ironed out by a number of other issues. We will insist, however, on the need for the House to send out a clear message of unity, a clear message against this economic crime. This economic crime, of course, does not stop at the borderline of Korydalus prisons or in some areas of intrusion. With the money that those who deal with smuggling, tax evasion and other such activities of course have a great strength both in the media and in political power and in economic power and in political control and so on. It's not just Greece. They happen all over Europe, all over the world. We know it here, too. We recognize them. We don't call names. We don't have any suspicions. Let's go to the bill now. In the logic I analysed, in the logic that there should be consensus, that there should be dialogue, what did the government do? He brought a consultation bill in October for fifteen days. I cannot understand why he did not yell at the Ministry of Economics, Social Affairs and Political Affairs so that there would be a conclusion, on the basis of which the bill would do and it would be something that would be a start and a very good basis for this struggle. So he brought a bill with twenty - five articles. It was for 15 days in consultation. On Monday, November 23rd at 1.00 hours, namely 00.50, he filed it in the House. Congratulations on working such an hour of service. They didn't explain anywhere why this emergency and why it had to be done. So he filed a bill not with twenty - five articles in the consultation, but with forty - one articles and three hundred - seven pages. If that's possible! It's possible that they'll study from Monday to 1.00 hours by Friday that entered the committee! Four meetings were held in the committee where we heard institutions and raised matters and so on. And today we come to plenary. We come to plenary today, and it is supposed that this government understood the mistakes made by SYRIZA to the government and told us a whole lot of things about correct legislation! I hope that Mr Gerapetti will also come to me at some point and answer a lot of the questions I have on this issue. He told us about the state at last. What we didn't hear! And look now. In a bill that had to pursue the greatest political consensus, a document for Members of Parliament yesterday comes to the Committee on Economic Affairs, not an amendment. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs ended yesterday and no government amendments were tabled to the bill. The government comes yesterday after the end of the Committee on Economic Affairs, one and twenty hours, and is tabling an amendment to an irrelevant issue on the question of ELTAs. On the serious issue of ELTAs. The ELTAs must be given sufficient political support, as our rapporteur, Marios Katsis, has already said, who, as a Parliamentary representative, will say more. So he brought another mini - bill with twelve articles and eighty - three pages, from yesterday to today. He was tabled after the Committee on Economic Affairs. And it is being introduced today for discussion. I would really like if there is a New Democracy Member who has been able to study all of what I have shared with us today, to tell us whether he thinks that this is how Parliament should function and have a legislature. But that's not all. It has also brought us a second amendment with an article and eighteen pages. I imagine that, and you have studied this and you will inform us in detail about the matter. That's the right legalization. This is the ultimate state. This is the message of consensus and unity that you want to send. But that's not how we're gonna get through. I understand he won't play in the media. We're waiting to play a photo in the Hymittos with someone who's athletic and hugging others and taking pictures.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u71	It was Parnitha.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u72	Yes, Mr. Colleague, you're right, he was in Parnitha and not in Hymitus. Next time he's going to the Hot and the other mountains. We expect this to come out first, because there's nowhere. Some will ask me today, "But what are you talking about? We do not see it in newspapers and sites and others.’ Yes, there's a picture of someone who has the inviolability of the law, that is, he doesn't have a problem. If Tsipras goes down with five people to protest on the University Street, he'll be arrested and fined. If anyone goes to the mountain and embraces another five to six to take pictures to relax, there's no problem and we're going down! I am, however, returning to the question of the state of service and the right legal system. I really would like it to be answered either by Mr Besyropoulos or by the Minister responsible when he comes: Do we respect Parliament's procedures or not? I'm not a lawyer. I've said it too many times. Never before will the process of a bill begin without studying what the Scientific Service of the Parliament says. You have enough lawyers in the New Democracy area. We start the discussion of a bill where the Scientific Service of the Parliament makes instant observations from using conditions that are not answered in dictionaries. For God's sake! You can fix this today. The Scientific Service of the House points out that you are using conditions that are not found in the current Criminal Code. The Scientific Service of the Parliament has observations in too many articles. Also, in the famous article 40, which burns us all, because we want to motivate the Greeks who left abroad, but also other citizens and have tax houses here and increase public revenues and deal with the issue of Brain Brain, as well as the issue of tax competition. The Scientific Service comes and says: ‘From the wording of the proposed provision, it is not clear whether the imported specific method of taxation can be applied in parallel to the alternative way of taxation under Article 5A of the Code on Income Tax’. And here it says: 'It is not clear whether the special method of taxation will also apply in the event of a change of employer over the seven years'. In this way we will call on investors, will we call on them to transfer the tax home, when the House's own Scientific Service on such a matter raises questions? I am not talking about the questions that we raised about the issue of the seven-year period which excludes too many Greek youths who left abroad. Of course, that's why something was said yesterday. We expect to be informed at some point and, if the Minister hears our calls and reduces it or does anything else. We also expect to respond to the issues that we have raised in committee on the question of the contribution of solidarity and a number of such issues. We also expect it to respond, although we are sure that it will not happen if the Ministry of Finance will testify, even today, what we have asked from the first day in the Committee on Economic Affairs. We are discussing the issues of smuggling. We have asked for something very simple, which in any other country or government would have been submitted together with the bill: an account, planning and an implementation schedule for the basic control systems, especially in fuel smuggling. The simplest thing. It hasn't been filed until today. Do you know why he wasn't testified? Because the most serious issue today is that the government does not have such planning, and if it has to be submitted to us, the implementation planning and the timetable for all the systems for combating the smuggling of fuels, which have been legislated before the SYRIZA Government, we are complementing them and are quite in progress. But at some point we have a briefing. It also remains a mystery, as if we are seeing a work of scientific imagination, if you will accept the amendment that is requested, not by the Syrians, but by the accounting and tax sectors, the chamber of finance, for which, bearing political bravery, we say that we are ready to withdraw it, if the huge problem with fines currently imposed on accountants and businesses commit that you will solve it. If you commit that you will solve it, we will withdraw the amendment to applaud you and say that 'yes, New Democracy solved the problem for which Alexiadis and SYRIZA are responsible'. With regard to the issue of the bill we are debating today, however, the Customs Federation - capable people, with great experience in the issues of smuggling and major struggles - has come here and explained its positions. I'm filing them in the Minutes, so they can be there. In addition, in addition to their proposals on the individual issues and on the question of disciplinary law, which is excessive and which the rapporteur of the New Democracy has also put forward, there is still no reply - and their proposals in the bill on matters which the government has not answered, but above all on the basic instrument for combating smuggling. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Do you know what the greatest instrument to combat smuggling is? The number of customs officers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I call for little tolerance, Mr President. I won't need more time. After all, I hope that the Minister will also come by the end of my speech if he is moved and responds to some issues. So he brought us a very nice painting of the human resources of customs officials, where it arises? You and PASOK - because we heard that PASOK came out yesterday, but let's not open this debate now, it's a conversation we have to do another time, let's not open it today - from 2010 until SYRIZA comes to the government you have reduced the number of customs officials. I'll say it again. You, who are more interested in SYRIZA combating smuggling, the number of customs officers you have reduced. The honourable Members have said here in the Committee on Economic Affairs that it is the customs office of the Gardens. On the side of Greece about fifty customs, on the other hand a hundred and twenty. Fifty customs for three shifts, Christmas, Easter, holidays, everything. What, then, is the result of the table in the Minutes? That in 2010 they were serving two thousand eighty-sixty-six customs officers. Every year with your own political options, you have reduced the number of these officials by 5%, by 3%, by 16%, by 11.7%, until SYRIZA, who, in your view, is not interested in the fight against smuggling and since 2015, and then the number of customs officials, not just decrease - which is of course reduced due to retirement - but increased, because we understood the need. Three issues and I close because I understand the subject of time. For Rule 40, I call on the Minister to answer the questions raised by the Scientific Service of the Parliament, because we cannot go to such a key issue, to bring back the Greeks who left abroad, but also other taxpayers, and to have such a big question. They need clear answers and what will happen over the seven-year period, so that we do not exclude those who left from 2013 onwards. Put in income filters or any other filters, answer what Parliament's Scientific Service says, finally put a solution to Article 40. With regard to the question of your irony in my speech to the Committee on Economic Affairs about what we did when I showed you that I was proud of the tape of fastening to cigarettes, a safety film in line with European standards, which solved the problem, and you ironed and said that 'that was 'that was nothing, it was a European directive that you implemented', the question is 'why didn't you?' Because there's a story with a printer somewhere there in southwest Greece and how they typed movies and other issues. Don't open this conversation now. As to what we have done on tax evasion and smuggling, there is - I will not put it in the Minutes, do not scare - a book of 30 pages. It is the account of our work and the programming that I had when I handed over the corresponding responsibility to the Ministry of Finance. There, then, seems to be a full picture of what we did: Tables, figures, etc. And we expect you to bring us your respective review. We, Mr President, as a party, will support the provisions of the bill, precisely because we believe that the major one is to send a message of unity and determination from the Greek Parliament on such a crucial issue. The government is also responsible for what it does not answer, and for the fact that it does not contribute to this front, on which we are ready to be with them. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u73	The special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Mr SYRIZA's colleague, neither can you with what you say nor the New Democracy reduce the serious work launched by PASOK, which laid the foundations for the fight against smuggling. On the contrary, there is much to be apologized for. Do not iron us out by tabling an amendment to a 2016 law, which you have not solved any specific issues. Minister, since the first time in the debate on the bill in the committees, we have pointed out the need for strong political will to proceed with the plan to tackle smuggling. We supported the bill and tabled improvements proposals and amendments. The government has had the opportunity to take advantage of our position and give a strong united message, but unfortunately you have distorted it with Mr Pierrakakis' s smuggling amendment, and I believe that you know - if you do not know it, I think everything we say is in the air - that the main element of smuggling is fraud. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the clandestine smuggling tabled by the Minister for Digital Policy to the 'no more than one' in the draft legislation on smuggling prepares for the privatisation of the ELTAs on SYRIZA. The Government of New Democracy and the Ministry of Digital Policy deliberately, as it turns out, for eighteen months to deal with the accumulated problems of ELTAs from the previous period, with the characteristic event that the ELTAs will reach the last point covering their operation with money from consumers who paid PPC's accounts through early payment. Now the government comes with the amendment not to give solutions, but to prepare the best conditions for the private investor and, indeed, to the detriment of workers and citizens. That makes it unacceptable! The painful consequences of the disastrous management of the ELTAs are now revealed, but also their subjection to the xenophobic superstition with the decision of the SYRIZA Government that has absolutely helped the New Democracy to continue with today's amendment. The Minister responsible with a great deal of courage told us that the ELTAs have been in 'no more than one' rather than his amendment, but he has not shown any sign of self-criticism for his inertia for eighteen months and his responsibilities for the situation. Ego, irresponsible or ludicrous? The amendment of poaching to prepare the privatisation of ELTA testifies to the fact that they are all three together, as it has simply cut off the Hatzidakis provisions for PPC since November 2019. So many months have it taken the Minister for Digital Policy for a simple copy paste? The provisions abolish the collective agreement on new entrants with all institutional safeguards, unilaterally reduce the wages of workers to the transferees, as well as the necessary staff, with the effect that, on the one hand, the deterioration of the quality of services and the increase in service times and, on the other, the shrinking of the network mainly in the islands, in the countryside and in difficult areas. I am presenting for the Minutes the articles of Mr. Hatzidakis' bill for PPC since last year, in order to show the full copy made by Mr. Pierrakakis. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Meanwhile, she makes sure to recruit with the tested right-wing client system before the "Espace" PASOK ASP, proving that right-wing and modernisation are not inconsistent. The modernists of the government did not modernize the Right, but simply synchronized with the Right. For the chair? To manage many billions? For both! One is assured of the other. Even the positive provision of the payment of the sums due -149,000 to 180,000,000 euros - by the State for universal services in the period 2013-2020 is not to ensure the viability of the ELTAs, but is part of the privatisation plan, mainly for the compensation of officials who will be made redundant, in order to create the best economic conditions for the private investor. Otherwise they would have been paid in either five years of SYRIZA or one and a half years of New Democracy. The Change Movement requires that the Minister for Digital Policy withdraw all the articles of the amendment other than Article 10 for the payment of public debts. And if that does not happen, then the Minister of Finance will only accept Article 10 and reject the rest as irrelevant to the bill, which distort the will expressed here in the fight against smuggling. Then, given the political will of the government and the relevant Ministry, let him come to the debate on the relevant committees of this House, an integrated plan for the sustainable development of the ELTAs, which will ensure respect for the human potential decent working conditions, collective agreements and effective service of citizens, respect for the APRC and all transparent procedures. Only such a plan could support the Change Movement. It is clear that if the government insists on the amendment to the smuggling amendment, we will vote on the articles on the reduction of smuggling, for which we have already expressed and tabled better proposals, but we will revise the positive attitude at the outset, which is no longer the fight against smuggling, but the promotion of smuggling against ELTAs, workers and citizens. If the Minister for Finance wishes to safeguard and strengthen the strong message of political will, I insist - it must not accept the amendment other than Article 10. Since the first day we have said that we are in favour, not only because certain procedures are in place to strengthen the existing institutional framework, but because it was the PASOK that boldly colluded and went ahead with the smuggling systems. Today there are for service stations integrated input-output systems. We also need to take account of the contribution made by the collective bodies of the agencies themselves and, in order to complete these systems, many of them - I should like to remind you - without even getting the financial support for these costs. But I must also point out one step forward and two behind the next governments, which have raised doubts and questions to the citizens as to whether the government, each government, the politicians in general, really want to smuggle smuggling. The bill has this proclamation. However, at the same time, as I have pointed out, the budget currently being discussed in Parliament provides for 15,000 000 revenues from the fight against smuggling, that is, last year and again. So, with the same revenues, we're going to hit it? Not even a small increase in the collection of the many million fines, which are confirmed, does not provide. Smuggling primarily seeks to avoid or steal the Special Consumer Tax. In Greece the rates of excise duty are very high and give higher incentives to smugglers, as the market representatives have told us. The Change Movement, which firmly believes in a fair and developmental tax system, has revealed the negative development of recent years in the relationship between indirect taxes and direct taxes. This ratio in 2014 was 1,15 and with SYRIZA's unfair and unfair policy against its citizens it deteriorated and in 2019 it reached 1.48. Taxes have increased excessively and, of course, income and, much more, excise duties. So it's in 1.48, and now it's at 1.5 and with the arrangements made by the New Democracy, it's going to 1.6. In other words, for every euro paid by natural and legal persons on capital, income, wealth, it corresponds to EUR 1.6 that will pay almost exclusively households with purchases for basic living goods. The household basket and the house's operating functions are excessively burdened with high indirect taxes. This mixture of overtaxation established by SYRIZA and maintained, in many cases, by New Democracy is also unfair and anti-developmental. The Pissaridis accreditation report says that we have the worst proportion in Europe. But the proposals itself and the government may become the worst in the world, since they only propose a reduction in capital and wealth taxes. The justification that indirect taxes and excise duties cannot now be reduced because liquidity is directly collected and liquidity is not present. And, of course, they tell us that for reasons of competitiveness we must reduce the other taxes, wealth. No, gentlemen. There can be a new mix and a ratio that is fair to low and medium-sized incomes, to a large majority of citizens and to boost the competitiveness of the economy. We have tabled an amendment to you and we say that with specific provisions. In 6% the focus, lowering costs for households, consumers, focus and, at the same time, 6% VAT on accommodation. Strengthen the competitiveness of tourism. With such initiatives and such changes in the tax system we will strengthen the competitiveness of the economy and reduce the burden on households. We recommend it for a year, to be evaluated and to see the follow-up. You should put yourself on the amendment and you and all the parties, of course, because it is about the whole economy and the citizens. We have no delusion that what is stated in the bill will proceed. It is certain that, if the logic of distortion prevails, this legislative initiative will be degenerated and there will be a symbolic record of intentions, without serious results. However, as I have said, we support all the provisions. We have tabled proposals for improvement. Of course, what we need is for you to bring to the committee the operational plan for its implementation, with specific time-limits and targets per year. If you bring an integrated operational plan, with time-limits and specific individual objectives, we will be able to see whether the expressed will can be done and we want to support this. I would like to remind you that we have proposed tightening up all the fines. Some are also at the level of ridiculousness. The other moves forward in an act of blockage - in a violent way most of the time - of controls and says that "you will give two and a half grand and clean up". Oh, no? Is that how you fight? Could have been smaller before, badly. Turned out by the evaluation it must be higher. Of course, the checks can be done electronically and they must have all electronic means to do so from the office, but they also need to be done on the road. That is why we are talking about strengthening all the control mechanisms. He's already heard about the customs offices. It's not just customs. They are all audit services, but customs is the characteristic example. We can actually have results if there is an operational plan in this direction. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] We have tabled to you the amendment on customs in relation to disciplinary and I think you should accept it. We have submitted to you their documents and proposals, as has been said by the committee, but also by all the bodies. The government should continue to discuss with them. Because there are areas where there is still a great deal of smuggling, particularly in fuel from the distribution company's refinery, the fuel companies, and until it reaches the agency, but also outside the refineries. There are other routes that have been developed and know them very well. This cooperation should continue, to be on a permanent basis, so that we have the results we are seeking. I will insist on sealing the plant, Minister. It can't be between ten and ninety days. The sealing of the installations shall be at least six months, at least one year or even forever, when we find a delusional situation in any facility, whether it is wholesale storage or a service. In the offices, of course, it has been restricted and we now have a specific scope, the problem of distortion and the problem of changing the quantity electronically. These two are specifically and targeted that we need to operate. However, it cannot go to a service or to a fuel company's facility a big five to fifteen - I said three to eight in committee, it is symbolic what I say - that this facility is closing down forever or closing down for one year because of smuggling. So we have to give this message and that is why we will vote on all the articles that we considered to be positive in this direction. We want our amendments, our amendments and our proposals to be accepted and to continue an effort on the basis of an operational plan. I close with a word about the amendment we tabled on regional and local instruments. As this deadline expires on 31 December, there must be contact with the press minister, who has committed himself to this amendment. Either it accepts our amendment, and for the next two years it will be compulsory to publish in the regional and local press of public publications, declarations, notices, etc. - or let him have one of his own, implement the commitment he made to me personally within the framework of parliamentary control in the Greek Parliament. Rethink it with Mr Pierrakakis' amendment. It distorts your efforts to combat smuggling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u77	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u78	I do not know if I am listening, but I also answered Mr Kegeroglu yesterday about the obligation to publish public notices, has the State Secretary responsible answered a timely question. I told you yesterday that a provision will come to the House shortly to be voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u79	Today?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u80	Soon there will be a provision to be voted on. So this matter will be resolved soon. I answered yesterday, and I repeat it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u81	I invite Mrs. Maria Konnakka to move to Stepma, the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u82	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill currently being discussed in plenary today in its main volume contains arrangements for modernising the legislative framework for the best, as it says, the coordination of national audit authorities to combat the smuggling of fuels, alcoholics, tobacco and other products. Of course, no one can object either to the need to coordinate and modernise the control mechanisms, much more than to the need to combat these phenomena. Nor, of course, are we questioning your intentions, Minister. However, such intentions have not been missed by any previous government, many times indeed, with heavy proclamations to stop the smuggling of fuel and not just, which have also been added to the list of pious desires. As was seen by the discussions in the committees, in what the positions of both the other parties and representatives of the institutions are finally converging, it is that, despite the great declarations or any attempts that have been made, at least in the last decade, to combat smuggling, this remains a declared objective for all governments, but without any significant practical results. Similarly, the expectations of the results of this bill are also low, since, in fact, any convergence presented by the other parties focuses essentially on the symbolism that needs to be given - the "strong message", which they say on the side of the state - and on the wish to combat this illegal activity, which brings not only serious losses to the State's revenues, but also has a number of other serious, even dangerous consequences, when distorted products are moved for consumption. It is a wish that no one disputes us either, but we do not think it is dealt with in this way. So what is happening, too, is the fight against smuggling usually left in words, despite legislative measures and multi-advertised campaigns against it? What's to blame and it's still an old problem that he doesn't find? What is it that finally allows criminal circuits to find a step ahead of any control mechanisms, as you all confess? That's right, it is. What is to blame - and not only do you think about touching it, but you protect it - lies in the very heart of the system that you all serve. It is the very capitalist profit, legal or illegal, the profit that is the foundation stone, the very reason for any capitalist society. This explains why smuggling is also happening in other developed capitalist countries, such as Germany, England, France, without being able to deal with it either. This explains why it always beside legal trade, and in parallel with this it is growing smuggling, in which protagonists and feeders are not, of course, the ones who are usually targeted, some immigrants, poor people, nor the ones who are in the middle of controls and are supposedly the last wheel of the carriage. Smuggling circuits go through the same streets as capitalist profit multiplying. They use tools of the free capitalist market, doors and windows that the system itself leaves them. However, there is also a need for clarification here, because the fight against tax evasion is not usually about the official activities of capital. These activities to a large extent enjoy scandalous tax immunity, tax exemptions, incentives, subsidies, taxation that is provoked in the times of the crisis, as is still happening today in the period of the pandemic and the new round of the capitalist crisis. Of course, these immunitys often go far enough to be given even for the discharge of huge fines imposed on the major debtors, finally revealing the size of your hypocrisy. But there is another common finding that, if you like, is at the heart of the problem. Where does the great profit for smuggling arise? What is it that gives the greatest motive for this? It is the huge deviation of the final price that is shaped by the great excise duty that includes all these products in relation to their value. Fuels, tobacco products are champions in the tax race, as well as alcoholic beverages. Indicatively, the imposition of excise duties on coffee has also become a new object, an appropriate field of smuggling. Even the case of LPG is characteristic where you correctly identify the difference in the rates of taxation. This creates fertile soil for poaching, but it cannot be a solution to think of the upward equation of factors, making this fuel unavailable to popular consumption too. Because at the same time you are strengthening both factors that make up yeast for the growth of smuggling. For, of course, these phenomena have been exacerbated after the massive evacuation of indirect taxes, for example, in fuel. At the same time, they objectively are also intensified because of the poverty of the populace, especially in times of economic crisis, because of the sharp decline in their purchasing power, which ultimately pushes them to look for these cheaper products of the smuggler. That is why demanding that the people's layers be exempted from such horrendous indirect taxes on first-needed products could, in addition to being necessary to survive, be a step in trying to reduce smuggling. However, there are other failures or delays that make it difficult to control and curtail the smuggling. For example, one of these was that input-output control was limited to stations, where the imposition of the new mechanisms is usually exhausted, but also rigour sometimes. Control is often used to punish certain consumable strawmen and does not go all the way through the supply chain, in warehouses, in fuel companies, in the refineries. It is never enough, of course, to the source of the problem, to the big fish, sailing undisturbed in deep water. There neither do you want nor can you get there. Of course, more effective control can also be carried out at the time the smuggling products enter our country and not after they are diffuse into the market. Another indicator of the lack of measures is that while you are setting up a single coordination centre, strengthening some methods of recording, it is still dramatically undermining the customs authorities and other control mechanisms, but an important link in the control chain. So the criticism we are making in the bill is not because we disagree with the need to achieve the declared objective of combating smuggling, but because we are not unaware that this bill can bear fruit while it does not touch the heart itself, the fertile ground that allows such phenomena to be planted. Minister, from the rest of the bill I will choose to refer back to Article 40. While the workers, the self-employed, the popular layers are literally narrowing, while the constant analogy of tax burdens, charged to them by 95%, is only 5% covered by the business groups, you come with yet another challenging arrangement to continue the race, in fact, attracting investors with provocative tax relief, which in this bill is up to 50% for all the income they generate either from work or from business activity. You are doing this to attract foreign investors to facilitate foreign business executives operating in the country. In fact, you choose to exempt these specific categories from the solidarity levy, thereby creating a tax haven for the chosen ones, while these unfair taxes - which you yourself call themselves - remain active for the workers and the self-employed. These are taxes to which a law, as you said, had an end date which the previous government had diligently forgotten. You forget her today, too. You are allegedly devoting its abolition for the distant future. Of course, despite the fact that you are coming to use as a holding point that the aim of this arrangement is to attract the experienced scientific potential that has migrated in previous years of the crisis, it is characteristic that not only that you have completely forgotten it in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, which expressly refers to as the purpose of the arrangement the attraction of foreign investors and the service of business managers, but even the original conditions set by the bill, which you are very late to say, that you will - we have not yet seen it - exempted all workers who left the country since 2012, since there has been no tax home in Greece for the last seven of the eight years in Greece, objectively throwing out the large volume of workers who have left all these years. These arrangements are indicative of what was the real reason you brought this provision and not, of course, of course, the one you are using today to get gold - if you want - and the pill. But, even if it is true, even if you, as you say, amend the provision, do you really think it can act as an incentive to return workers and not ultimately to create a new wave of immigration? By simply creating tax havens, incentives for a particular category of investors, even specific workers, we say, when you are at the same time legislating on the 10-hour working day, unpaid overtime, EUR 200 wages, the towel of insurance, how do you believe that these young workers who left in the years of crisis can return when you are drugizing the whole field of work? If you want to motivate young workers to return to work with rights, decent wages, relief and support measures for self-employed and not to create two-speed jobs and continue to grant tax exemptions to business groups. Such arrangements, if you wish, show your hypocrisy to the young workers who have paid and paid for the broken crisis. Indicative of this intention is also the amendment that the Ministry of Digital Governance really had in secret concerning the ELTAs. We have told you that it is really unacceptable to choose to bring such a serious issue without the possibility of consulting a substantial debate, without taking into account the reactions, to give the floor to the workers. In fact, it is no accident that you choose to bring the amendment, at a time when it is first time that the collective agreement of workers in the ELTAs is extended, and the trade unions are, in fact, in a phase of negotiation with the administration and, of course, at a time when the government is making use - if you like - of the pandemic, trying to go through a series of anti-corruption measures, also hitting rights at work, income or measures for direct support to capital. This decision that you are taking on the ELTAs we say needs to be withdrawn. And if you really want to make such changes, bring them as a bill to discuss with the workers. This decision essentially attempts in summary procedures to remove and any obstacles that existed in previous years to privatise the ELTAs, in which, of course, others have put their hands before you before you and may now hypocritically raise the tone of confrontation. Moreover, the same scenario has been played by all of you - from New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA - for the reorganisation of other former ECJs, which you have already deceived and, of course, you have, in the end, proceeded to privatise them. Ultimately, the objective is how ELTAs will be transformed as an undertaking with a unique profit criterion, whether it is sold entirely or, of course, for the time it operates as a State, but its revenues will strengthen the state budget to support capitalist profitability. The problem is that, instead of acting as a service to ensure people's communication even at the farthest point in the country, the profit criterion finally leads today to the revision of the universal service, the closure of shops that do not generate profits and therefore, the difficulty of accessing the people to the service of communication, but also the smashing of the labour rights of thousands of workers. We call again on you to withdraw this amendment, which really comes to tear down everything that has been left all over the past few years from conquered work rights in post offices, with severe consequences for thousands of workers. Finally, I will only briefly refer to the Health Ministry's amendment - I imagine the Minister will then come to it - with a comment. The valuation that today - after eight months of pandemic - chooses to put the ministry on the coronary tests really is the greatest assumption for the speculation orgy, which, with the government's consent, has been carried out by private companies on the health of the people all these months. But even now, in real war conditions, you are still fond of the private sector, instead of doing what is really necessary for the health of the people, to check without any conditions for the entire private sector, to include in the planning of the public all private clinics, but also to carry out the necessary tests to be carried out massively in the population for free and not, of course, even now to make bazaars on how they will be costed, making gifts to the private sector to the detriment of the health and life of the people. We will be voting against this amendment in the way it is introduced, as will the entire bill for the reasons I have just mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, too. Please prepare a health check and call the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr. Konstantinos Hetas, to speak. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, thank you very much. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think we are in the same work as we are hearing about the sterile political controversy we are hearing, but above all on the wishes of a very important subject. In fact, we cannot understand where you draw from, Minister, this optimism when you talk about combating smuggling when your own - not your own, but all the policies that have been running this country - have turned our country into a paradise in everything that has to do with illegal, smuggling, etc. So, how many years and how many times have we heard from all the governments and from all the ministers the same wishes, 'we will smuggle smuggling, we will fine, we will put the smugglers in jail, we, we, ourselves?' And of course, you haven't done anything. Smuggling all these years and developing and developing and spreading. And we're not talking about smuggling or a simple violation, Minister. This is a serious crime. Because we are talking about crime, we are talking about organised crime, we are talking about tentacles within and outside borders that operate with global mafia networks. We're talking about mafia! Illegal global turnover is estimated at three billion. We're talking about incredible money! Only in Greece - in order to stay some of the numbers - fuel smuggling loses 500m euros, half a billion euros, 500m euros, that is, what we budgeted for our national defence in 2020. Only EUR 500 million of fuel! The turnover of smuggling cigarettes is even greater with the losses of state funds in 2019 being 610 million euros and over 500 million euros, going to 1.2 billion euros. In 2019, as a country, we had the highest proportion of smuggled cigarettes in the European Union. Incredible, Greece has the highest percentage of smuggled cigarettes in the European Union! But illegal alcohol trade also loses around EUR 40 million a year, over EUR 1 billion. Let me tell you this - a grocery calculation to do - more than EUR 1 billion. And we haven't caught, we haven't included, Minister, the illegal immigration of illegal immigrants, who have come to the land of opportunity and of the promise, in Greece and you see what is happening with the illegal products they sell. There to see forging gains! EUR billion is calculated for the illegal profit of the smugglers in our country. And these amounts are not only missing from the state funds, but they are missing from every household, they are missing from the national economy, they are missing from our fellow citizens, who are in a financial deadlock due to limitations in their homes and fighting without knowing what dawnes them. And what we haven't heard of smuggling! What we have not heard of fuels in particular, of chemicals and other substances, of tempted pumps, of double bottoms in tanks and tankers, of illegal tanks, of illegal pipelines. It is something that happens at all stages of this supply chain, from the refineries to the means and ways of handling fuels to the final disposal to consumers. It is done at the land borders, at the sea by tankers, tankers and the wonderful slelets. Cigarettes. Let's go to the cigarettes now, let's go to the illegal cigarettes. Another nightmare! Four hundred and fifty - six billion illegal cigarettes are consumed worldwide every year. Four hundred and fifty-six billion cigarettes! In our country, the problem with smuggling cigarettes is also very intense because of Greece's geographical location. We are an international crossroads - let me say this - smuggling both from land and from sea. We have heard the Minister himself admit that we are not only talking about smuggling cigarettes, we are talking about the operation of illegal cigarette factories in our country. We're talking about horror! I mean, we're not just moving them, but we're producing them. Each one understands the dimensions in the subject. And against all this, we have a state that's weak. Because if the state were not weak, we would not have legislated again today to smuggle smuggling in general. We would have done better, but, unfortunately, the state always runs behind these developments and behind illegal trade. It's always a step behind smuggling. In existing legislation you also add some extensions. Let's say it's more generally in the right direction. They will not, however, change - I wish, too, that we should be appalled and smuggled - drastically. There are also mistakes and you do them with your well-known policy. Now we're going to the system of inputs and fuel outlets. But it's been broken for too long. It doesn't actually work. It is compulsory to put it, but we do not control them if they are using it, firstly, and secondly, it has broken, the input-out system continues, does not pay off. When will we finally see it applied by everyone and operate everywhere? That's the point. We must try even more. A very important issue, Minister, is the strictness of penalties. From the first debate in the committees, where we participated, up to the fourth and today we say to you: Improving penalties. It is necessary to tighten the fines, to provide for a definitive sealing at the agency of the illegal one, when there is a smuggling situation. "Locked up because of smuggling," seal, end of story. You know, the sums moved and made by these people, these smugglers are huge. Will it hurt if he pays a fine of EUR 5, 10, or even EUR 15,000? Nothing. You'll be airing him. Nothing. It'll work again, because the money it makes is multiple. Smugglers should also be excluded - see what we are proposing to you - from the use of beneficial provisions leading to the suspension, reduction or even execution of the sentence. It is only in this way that this stricterization of penalties will have a deterrent effect. Now we're going to the independent authorities, this superpower. This has been done with the independent authorities in Greece. It's really unbelievable. It is planned for AIA officials - in today's bill is this independent authority - an additional reward for 'achieving excellent performance', as you say. Meaning? But they have to do their job anyway. That's why they're being paid badly. The APA takes 30 million, 60 million. Greek citizens pay between 400 and 600 million a year the thirty two independent authorities. We're filled with independent authorities. From EUR 400 to EUR 600 million, the Greek taxpayer pays the independent authorities, most of which are atrocities and high wages, and we are here and with others being head hunters. And "Take more money"! Don't they get what they get just to do their job? And an extra reward? Another question: will the civil servants of ASE go down here, in the Constitution and in the Strait of Thessaloniki and in the Monastery be chased after the countless illegal immigrants who have been smuggling? Are they going? We are now going to a very important part of tax policy. To abolish or even reduce very much, Mr Minister, excise duty, reduce VAT and, more generally, indirect taxes. It cannot be higher than the value of the product. It cannot be 1,43 gasoline, costing 0,27 minutes a litre and everything else being taxes, excises, VAT, indirect taxes and saying. You can't do that. So the way you tax the blockage rises and you are pushing the client to go and find something cheaper and illegal. The same happened with coffee. Since the excise duty on coffee has been imposed, smuggling in coffee has sharply increased. Taxes are more than value. We must reduce them, make the product more appealing, more direct to the consumer, so that he can shop the law. So the illegality will be struck and the state will increase its revenue. You may have a loss of tax reduction at first stage, but after the first year you will see the increase in sales of products and we will start to balance and get on the right track. At the end of the traffic, you insist and insist. We read it a moment ago: Expansion of traffic charges. It's wrong. Expansion is wrong. You move the debts of the world and its obligations. So in three months, the man who's been locked up for five, six months will have to pay or get out of this economic darkness with the coronary within three, four months? We're not going to get out of the dark. What does the Greek solution say? Why don't you do it after we talked about agreeing? Deal with that. For the four months, Greeks will not pay traffic fees. Why? Because the state, the state, forced them to stay home. And it is not a solution that has been heard in committees at the hearing of the bodies, that there is a possibility for the Greek citizen to present a sign. Listen to me, another "I place signboards and it's my choice" and another "You oblige me to stay at my house and you forbid me from going around". So when you're forbidden to release me, you'll reduce my traffic charges during the months I'm in lockdown. The Greeks won't pay for three, four months of traffic charges. Do the thing, we can applaud you and the Greeks. What can they do with the extension? They owe people their debts, they'll owe them tomorrow. For young people abroad, before I go to the amendment that is also mentioned in it, I should like to point out that the suppression of smuggling, if we do so, means that trade increases lawfulness. So what do I do? Entrepreneurship is increasing. So what do I do? Employment is rising and unemployment is being fought. So I encourage our thousands of young people to return home to be able to find a job. Because we are talking about Greeks who are indebted to the world as seekers, as seekers of scientists, the state must adopt measures, attract them, facilitate them, grant them subsidies so that they are directly or indirectly returned home. We have a duty and a moral obligation to bring our children back. Let's go now, Minister, to the ELTA amendment. Yesterday we told you, Minister, Mr. Georgantas, because you are invading the Treasury bill, that you are not wrong with the ministers, Mr. Staikoras and Mr. Vesyropoulos, because you will get all the cream. The whole game will take place here today for the ELTAs. There isn't! Who are we talking about now? Let me say this in order not to misunderstand myself: of course we want the resolution of the ELTAs to work properly, of course we want them to return, and of course the Greek people must not pay 4.5 million in the month when the ELTAs enter. Who doesn't want that? But let's go further, though. Is someone going to tell the world outside who can hear us who is responsible for the anticipation of the ELTAs? From virginity the ELTAs came out like this to owe? Let me get this straight. At a time when courier, courier, courier, blossom, ELTA are inside. How's that working out? What happened with OSE, what happened with OLYMPIAKI, what happened with PPC, you go and do it here. The first steps, then, to hear some things here today, started in 2007. Who are responsible for 2007 for the start of the ELTA curse? Who's responsible? The Greek Solution? So, all of you who are shouting today - the SYRIZA who ruled in 2015 and who continued the project, the PASOK who told us earlier about the beneficial provisions of smuggling, but did not tell us about the ELTAs what the New Democracy that was running - will you tell us? In 2009 the ELTAs damaged for the first time EUR 38 million. In 2009. It dawns in 2021. Did it have to take twelve years to come to an amendment today to save the ELTAs? In 2012, the fall of the ELTAs - listen, Mr President - you estimated that it would exceed 40% compared to 2008. In 2011, a hundred million letters were lost. Remember. In 2012, revenues decreased by 30%. Same pattern and the next few years. Is someone gonna apologize for these disgraceful things? Will someone tell the world who's gonna pay for this? Who bankrupt the ELTAs? And today you're coming, you get heads, two thousand to get them suspended, we're gonna cut the wages, which may be fat, some to tell you everything, to save the ELTAs that you destroyed. I mean, you ruined them and now you're here to save them again. How's that gonna happen? I don't really understand. To say the group's results for 2018, to go to more recent 'hells'. The company had 13.8 million operating losses and 16.8 million tax. As for the 7% increase in revenue, this contributed to an increase in the revenues of the subsidiary 'ELTA COURIER'. The latter, of course, were reduced by 6% and formed at EUR 168 million. For 2019, last year, accumulated losses to ELTA amounted to EUR 182 million. You said yesterday: 'It was 8.5 million a month, and we did 4.5 million.' But why would he go in EUR 8.5 million? It's a world record! 2020 with a monthly deficit of little less than EUR 6 million, it is estimated that the cost of the pandemic will be EUR 70 to EUR 80 million. So you understand now that crimes have been committed in the last 13 years. Yeah, but for these crimes, financials, political crimes, someone has to pay. Something doesn't get us here. Why doesn't the postal recession seem to have touched the rest of the postal companies? If we were talking about a total remission in space, I would say that I see it, I hear it. But how can the rest, the ELTAs disguise and the courier business to make financial leaps? How is that possible? That's why we're saying that whatever was public you've ruined, you've broken it up. All the previous years while the giant of ELTAs was discerning, the other shops were blossoming, especially now with the coronary and quarantine. Watch out for a second now. The tick has been launched. The courier companies have kneeled down. They can't handle the work volume, and that's what's left of it. Even if the coronary, wishing for it, and praying for Panagia to leave quickly, the habit of e-shopping will remain. Things change. It's an opportunity to take advantage of that. I will tell you this and always speak with evidence and examples. They have given up to 70% of the restrictions on online sales. The 'ACS' - I shall speak with data, Mr Georganta - is faced with more than 60% increase in the delivery of electronic markets at home. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need two-three minutes more, because you realise that the ELTA amendment is a second bill to the effect. Known food chains have concluded agreements to exploit the forecasts of economic analysts with courier companies. AB KOSILOPOULOS made an agreement with SPEEDEX. Why not with the ELTAs? Where were we? Where's the CEO of the ELTAs? Where are the people running the ELTAs? Will these people be punished, or will they only get the 5,000 euros a month? So why not "AB" the "ELTA"? ‘SKLAVENIST’ operates with ‘West Postal Services’. Where are the ELTAs? Why should ELTA die when, for example, the ‘ACS’ of the ‘QUEST’ group increased sales by 20% in the nine months of 2020 and sees plus 11% in its sales? Recruitment: They will take 550 euros from companies with staff. Where's S.H.I.E.L.D.? Does the AACC cost me and the Greeks 30m euros a year - so much for those who work at the AACC - and they won't even control? Under the supervision of the AACC? What's up to supervising? I make it easy for people to enter, to be without worthyness, without anything. How's that gonna happen? What will he say ‘under the supervision of the AACC’? What is the role of SAEP? Why does the Greeks pay 30 million euros a year? To hire people like this. And since the state has survived, it must be committed, Minister, that it will not close any ELTA store. They are emblematically the ELTAs in the last village, in the last province, in the last island. The ELTA must not have the fate of the OSE, the “OLYMPIAKI” and it goes on to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, too. I would ask you to prepare the Step sanitary, and I will call the special speaker of Mera25, Mr. Georgios Logiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, at the end of the committee's bill on the suppression of smuggling, the government, in its known method of amendment - 'introduction', I would say - in fact at the last minute, in an irrelevant bill, brought to Parliament the deforestation and privatization of the ELTAs with its dear friends the usual pretext for the competitiveness of the market and a supposed digital transformation. Total evil with deceit. The draft was presented only yesterday to the Ministerial Council under the presidency of the Prime Minister and you have already brought it into action today. Remuneration over time, privatisation and sales is the goal again, instead of upgrading the ELTAs. In this bill, the Government arranges for the elimination of smuggling in fuels, alcoholic beverages and tobacco. The bill includes general goods subject to excise duty. The control framework adopts a series of digital electronic means for vibrant monitoring of flows in these species. With this bill, the Mitsotakis Government further strengthens the inter-service body called the Coordinating Business Centre - briefly TEC - to deal with smuggling in goods subject to excise duty, having the role of coordinator of the various services. The TEK was created - to remind us - in 2016 on SYRIZA as a Memorandum, but remained inactive. The government triggers it and passes it on to the ADP. The TEC, as referred to in Article 3 of the draft law, can be supervised - and not - by a government committee, the Government Committee on Strategic Planning and Surveillance to curb smuggling, which is currently set up under Article 8 of the Staff Regulations. It should be noted that the Government Committee will be set up otherwise, whether it supervises the TEC or not. Its main task is to legitimise the preconceived selection of members of the Board. What is the problem with the CEC? We refer to a preconceived selection of the members of the board of directors because that is precisely because the TEC as an interdepartmental body is a member of the AACC. The TEK might have been a good idea if it were not subject to the Independent Public Revenue Authority, which operates entirely independently of the Hellenic Republic, but fully dependent on the lenders and the Troika. The responsibilities of the TEC include the following: a node that collects all information relating to the smuggling of goods covered by excise duties and excise duties. It shall be responsible for receiving, processing and transmitting all information to and from the competent authorities and control and prosecution mechanisms. He is recommending and recommending to the government committee action plans to combat smuggling. It shall take operational action relating to the investigation, control and prosecution of the trafficking in products subject to excise duty and to excise duty. It shall forward the alleged, investigated or recorded cases to the competent authorities. The subparagraph shall continue to mention: where appropriate, it may carry out any examination or investigation and carry out all investigations for the purpose of detecting the offences of the illicit trade in customs evasion. The pre-examination work will be carried out by CVT officials with duties and powers of pre-request, i.e. port and police officers seconded to the CVT. It monitors the seized products and maintains an electronic application of the registration of confiscations of products subject to excise duty with all relevant information, a register created and operated by the TEC, i.e. the IAEA. Legislative initiatives for the disposal of staff, infrastructure, control and transport instruments for access to information systems and in general what is needed to carry out its work are recommended by the AACC Commander. He shall cooperate to fulfil his purposes with international and national organisations and with private bodies, enterprises and specialised consultants. Finally, in order to serve their purpose, members of the Board of Directors and officials of the TEC shall have access by way of derogation to any general or specific provision on tax or other confidentiality. Article 3 of the Statute of the TEC closes with a reminder: Any matter relating to the structure, organisation, operation and infrastructure of the TEC shall be determined by a decision of the commander of the AACC. So we see that the government creates a monster mechanism to the limits of legality with superpowers, even substituting judicial authority in its field, which will not be controlled by the Greek state, but by the Troika and the lenders. Article 4 provides for the establishment of an Electronic Register for Alcoholic Drinks. The register shall be established and subject to the AACC. Records will be entered and kept with all natural and legal persons involved in any way in the context of their professional activity with alcohol. A unique number of alcoholic beverages shall be assigned by registering in the register. An electronic system for the identification of spirit drinks under the ADI shall be set up in Article 5. Article 6 establishes an Electronic Reservoir Register for Energy Products and this is subject to the ADI. Articles 8 and 9 shall be strengthened by integrated input-output monitoring and electronic data transmission systems in the customs warehouses for LPG and similar tax warehouses respectively, which shall be monitored by the IAEA. Article 14 answers the following questions. What will be responsible for developing and managing input-output software and systems for identifying geographical location of means of transport, as well as for managing this data? Of course, the AIA, to which all existing in-service or non-relevant software input-output software must be subject. In addition to electronic means of control, the fees for information and bonuses shall be repaid to the AACC officials. The fees and bonuses will be either flat-rate or up to 20% on multiple fees received or on the auction of the seized. In conclusion, the government has brought in a bill to combat the smuggling that will ultimately only work out for sure will be the even greater expansion of the ADP and the further abundance of the country's tax system. Let us remember here what Secretary Yiannis Varoufakis said during the debate in Parliament on digital governance at the end of September. ‘Is it possible that tax software is outside the draft law, that the Ministry of Digital Governance does not have access to the most important software in the country and that AIA is dependent on the Troika? Can there be companies of ‘SILICON VALLEY’ that can press a button and the Ministry of Finance does not have access to the tax information of citizens?’ And continues Yanis Varoufakis: "As far as Mr Mitsotakis is concerned, we are in debt-government status that does not allow a conscientious minister who aims to bring together public fiscal software to do so." By addressing SYRIZA at that time, had Yiannis Varoufakis stressed: "Are you ready to go to a break with the troika, so that the public can have access to tax software, or is your radicalism exhausted to being credited to you or the 2011 PASOK for what happened in the area of digital policy?" I would like to stress what Mr. Koussi, the President of the Federation of Venziopers of Greece, mentioned in committee and I read: "In 2013 in Attica and Thessaloniki in 2014, the system of input into fuels with immediate priority was applied to companies and refineries, i.e. in 2015". We have 2020 and the companies and refineries have set up the input-outs system, but it has not been interconnected and I think it is the responsibility of the three governments that have passed from 2014 to today. It is their responsibility because they have not been interconnected. You are all the same - and PASOK, KINAL today or else it will be called tomorrow and New Democracy and SYRIZA - and since 2010, you have signed the memorandums, which not even many of you have read, you have put the country in an absolute debt prison. Ladies and gentlemen, since all the control software'swipe' is mentioned in the AIAE, we would paraphrase the highest administration in Greece, which ADI does not control the Greek State, for which tax control we are talking about? You are referring to this bill as a budgetary issue and it concerns public revenue lost by smuggling. We, the Front of the European Realistic Disobedience, the Mera25, ask ourselves and ask ourselves: What are you doing about the huge digital paradigm economy? We, Mera25, have tabled an amendment to tax the very large digital enterprises, Facebook, Google, Amazon, Netflix and others. In England, France, Italy, corresponding taxes have already been imposed. Are you deaf or are you following orders from above? How independent are we really as Greece? Mera25 in principle is voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u87	And we thank Mr. Loyadis. I will give the floor now for five minutes to the Deputy Minister of Digital Governance, Mr Georgioda. Please prepare the Step. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. In view of the various positions and positions of the parties, as expressed today, but also the excesses in relation to this bill, with the specific amendment which has been heard, I am obliged to say five things to be understood at least by those who are listening to us. Do we want a universal post office in Greece? We want her. Do we want the postal service brand to reach the last end of the Greek territory and to offer quality services? We want it. What are we in the situation right now? Unfortunately, under the responsibility of many years, but with the tragic responsibilities of the previous government, we arrived at the oldest company of the Greek state, created by Ioannis Kapodistrias in 1828, forced to retain the money paid by PPC subscribers for the accounts in order to be able to cover its operating expenses. Why did we get to that? Which company can be held when 70% of its revenue is wage costs? So what do we have to do? When we took over, we saw a company, which was "inside" that we said to the catapult, which had a deficit of about 7 million a month. Today we have done something that does not matter very much, perhaps, I will agree with some previous speakers, but it is worth mentioning. Today is 4.7 per month the deficit. "Are we proud of this?"? No, we're not proud. We therefore want to make the necessary interventions and these very simple interventions have this amendment, so that the operation of ELTAs can be effective, that the company can be competitive, that we can have a rapid and quality service, as the world knows, at every point on the ground. What do we have to do to do this? What interventions should we take? A first intervention is that we need to reduce wage costs. In order to reduce wage costs, in addition to the same reduction in wage costs, which is achieved, we are giving the opportunity to surplus staff - five and a half thousand is permanent staff, which is currently employed by the two companies - voluntary exit. We then give the possibility of moving and covering the empty organic positions within the company, and then we also give the possibility to move to another public body. So the work of those currently employed in ELTAs is assured, the possibilities are many. However, once this whole course has been completed, we will have the reduction in wage costs, which is one condition in order to be able to hope for a better next day. There are other conditions. Indeed, while the postal service, in particular to the shipping of parcels, did not have those internal interventions, that modernising the operation of the company, internal procedures, so that all this movement could actually be carried out, without being costly, so that there would be an added value in the ELTA itself. It is therefore necessary to make these speeches. It is necessary for the company to be more flexible with a final objective, a unique objective, a binding objective for us, to remain, as we know, under state supervision, as we do - which has been left after the interventions made in 2018 and which are best known - in terms of universal postal service, at least. There are 11 articles in relation to the amendment, and I would really like to hear about each of them, because they are perfectly reasonable, it is absolutely essential and must be done at the moment, so that we can move on to a next day with the protection of workers' rights, but above all with the best and most quality and most direct service of the citizens who need to be interested. I think, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that it is precisely because there is this necessity and need that is not just the money that is in deficit every month, but the company that loses credibility, loses the possibility of becoming competitive, loses the opportunity to return. We must therefore vote for it immediately, and I think that the logic will prevail from all sides, so that we can actually serve the public interest, indeed the interests of each Greek citizen at whatever location it may be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u90	I hadn't seen, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Katsi, I'll answer you. When he asks for a party president, he takes the lead. Only if there is a personal matter, then the personal matter takes precedence. Immediately after the President, I will give you the floor, because you want to say something about what Mr Georgantas said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u92	Two minutes I want...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Georgantas will remain. So news is not lost. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Ministers, I'd like to start by saying a oxymomile shape I see in your bill. In a country where the entire political system, Ministers, is smuggling, you brought a bill on smuggling. I will tell you, however, that the people to whom you are giving citizenship, the illegal immigrants are smuggling. I'm starting with this, actually. Go out now, of course it's closed because we have a lockdown, but on a daily life outside the Constitution, in Omonia, at the beach of Thessaloniki, Ministers that are north-east, if you go from the White Tower to the port, you'll see a stretched bracelet down, with shoe, cell phones, whatever you want, without proof. And you come here and tell me about smuggling. When you don't do the basics! I mean, you're one of those who build the penthouse, but you don't have any foundations. You say you build a building, you say, and you start with the penthouse. You're taking it backwards. And you take it backwards and I'll prove it to you. You are not answering the question why smuggling is taking place, Minister. Here's the question, why is it smuggling? For two reasons: first, the overtaxation of enterprises. This is very important. Secondly, because the tax on gasoline in relation to the rest of the countries is huge. And I'll tell you where you're going to find the money. Because if you go find the money there, it's your friends. They're your friends, all of the political system. In a minute. Here. Take a walk to the port of Thessaloniki, on the other side, on the pleasure boats with navy oil and gasoline. Why don't you go there? It has a five gasoline station - listen to the trick, the scam - it takes both two ships and takes the oil or gasoline as a smuggler for its vessel that has low VAT or lower taxes and sells it from its gasoline. Don't you know that? You don't know them. Okay. I live in another country. Let's actually go. Do you know what made me most angry, Minister? You're here and I'm asking you. In Article 23 you made AIA head hunters. So, you're putting the clerk after Loverdo, because he has to find him something to get a bonus rate. Wild west. Far West. Gaucho Kocho comes out with the pistols - here's the taxier - and he's on the wild west because someone's been proclaimed and shot. You're trying to find some recruits. Do you know what you're doing? You legalize the rat, the dosing. Yes, you're smiling! In a country of dolphins or rats, as some say, I imagine it all happens. But this is what will happen. Head hunter, our clerk? From my tax office, I pay the tax office, Minister. His salary comes out of my money, Mr. Loverdus and other colleagues. And you're making him a head hunter? Would you give him a bonus if he fined or caught someone? I'll give you an example. I'll tell you in time with facts and arguments. Some tax collector went to run a check on a company, three pizzas. They were asked for invoices in 2015 - now listen, Minister - to remove the fat from Salami for every portion of pizza, the casserium for weight loss with baking, to calculate how many portions it sold on the basis of the weight of oil. Are you all right? Tax Report 2015! Remove the fat from the salami! And there's Article 11 in there, Minister, which says exactly. That even by speculation the tax office can charge a fine. Are you serious? In a country overtaxed, in a country where the businessman gravitates? I'm a businessman. You may not be. You're a tax collector if I'm not mistaken. Mr. Georgios, I think he's legal. It's tragic. They're gonna shut down business. You smeared tax and check 2015 tariffs. Unbelievable things. You will be speechless with the evidence in the timely question, and I want you to answer me there. Don't tell me now, in time I want you, because I'll give you information. We're only talking about evidence. We're not mocking anyone. Let's go to the rest, listen. Why is smuggling being done? When you legislate, you should first look at the cause. You're chasing the result. You say 'we are hitting the smuggling'. Did you find the cause? Oh, no. So how do you cure the smuggling problem? Tax. If you tax, if you lower taxes, it's a pretext that there won't be any smuggling. It's for granted! I explained to you how the boats are coming out of the pleasure boats. All the Athenians, the newly armed, have pleasure boats and many of them also have stations for fuel. Symptoms and that. Take a list of taxis and see. You'll understand that something's wrong. Check them. I'm telling you a source. Let's move on. Go to the refinery. Three have Greece, Mr. Minister, there's not much poor. Three of them! Go to Latsis, to Vardinoyannis, and check the outflow. There, to the source! You go and drink water not from the source, but from the tank to your house. Since the source of the problem is the refinery. There, check in the refineries. Input-inflow. It's just stuff. That's what's going on in Germany. That's where it's controlled. And that's where it happens. Wherever smuggling becomes, do not be mocked, we are not the country where they are all illegal and all deceived. Your intentions are good, but with intentions you cannot exercise government to rule the place. Let's go to the ELTA now. I have heard the Minister who likes to say 'unfortunately we have arrived here'. Wait a minute, Minister, what will he say, unfortunately? Your party has ruled thirty years. Five years, fifteen of them, twenty years you rule. Unfortunately, who brought her here? And a man speaks to you, Minister, who is involved in sending parcels every day. Do you know how this company can win from here on out? But it's all done electronically now. There will be e-commerce. I see my child, you'll have kids too, where my daughter enters the internet, orders and comes the courier in two days. Now that this is an opportunity for the ELTAs to make goodwill and money go and kill them? Because that's murder. I saw it, and a man who knows about parcel missions speaks to you. A lawyer who doesn't have to know is not talking to you now, he knows the law. I know that. So you didn't tell us what's to blame. Who's to blame for getting here? Who is to blame for getting to this point today - because you are unhappy - for taking on - and I will say it directly - his logic hurts tooth cuts head. Unfortunately, that's what you do no matter how much you want to convince us, you're wrong. They're monopolistic companies. The ELTAs are a monopoly and say what you want. You ruined it with your ruffles. You are putting directors and presidents and directors of unrelated companies because they were unsuccessful MPs. That's how it happened, not just in ELTA, but in all services, and you know I'm right. We never put tech-state CEOs, never put one who knows the street and the market to an agency. I'm telling you to understand it, because you're making tragic mistakes. I won't say the loss. Where are you going to find out? Ports. You don't need a lot of brains. You go to the ports to see where the smuggling is from, where the products come from. If you don't shut down refineries and ports, i.e. outflow and influx, whatever you hunt, we have to talk about! Because I was also a Member here in 2007-2008, Minister. And then I brought a smuggling bill, I don't know how many bills they brought so far, five, fifteen, twenty? The problem in Greece is not pluralism, because every government is making a law, and it comes out and says we're going to smuggle smuggling. But there's no smuggling like that. I told you two, three sources. Check it out. Let's say it straight away. Who do the smuggling? They are the great players, the few-growers, the Greeks and their merchandises. It's like drugs, Ministers. So drug dealers are illegal immigrants who sell them, without proof. It's over! In the refineries, you know what the solution is, I won't say it again. When the monkey products on our market, 40% are from Turkey, it tells you where they come from. 40% of monkeys are from Turkey and 60% are from China. Look for the street. From your office you can't do the job, understand it. That's not how it works, because we're losing billions. That money could be given somewhere. As for the supervision of the AACC, Minister, in our country we are filled with surveillance. Uh, yeah, you won't be responsible, that's the difference. If you've told me I'm responsible, and it's all right, I'll say yes, Minister, take it from you, but if it happens, you'll go home. Supervision means what? I'm supervising. The referee does the job, however, not the superintendent. Because you like soccer. The superintendent can say whatever he wants. The referee's doing the job. I'm saying that to understand that you're making mistakes. And I repeat, and I stress it, Mr. Loverdo...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u95	I've been through it a thousand times.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u96	Under the Constitution, we have five independent authorities. Our country operates thirty-two. We're flying 300 to 400m euros out of the window, Ministers. Here you are, Mr. Besiropoulos, only the ASA from what I see has 20,000, 000 to 300,000. Why? He'll be supervised. Can't Mr. Georgiods and you, the referee? Should we be supervising the AAP? I say that we can cut costs and get the 300-400 million and give it to the employee, the farmer, the pensioner, in productive sectors. We can, there are solutions. The point is, unfortunately, you have made a thousand five hundred and two thousand people there to the independent authorities - your people are most - and you cannot expel them. Yes, but for a thousand and a half hundred people and for 400 million, this money can be made thousands of euros for the country to produce wealth. I see them very simple. If you think there are solutions, you're wrong. Now we're going to the major issue of the coronary. You've made too many mistakes. Since yesterday, he's been playing a story. I said this here, and I remember, Mr Colleague - many of you were shouting underneath - that history with China is a very strange story. I want the Greek Government, if the errors of the Chinese Government prove to be, to demand compensation for the collapse suffered by the Greek economy. America did it. He put a law firm to ask for compensation from China. Because they seem to have given fake evidence, faked evidence, fooled the planet so it wouldn't seem like the problem. Will the Greek Government ever make an effort to replicate the American in order to start claiming compensation? Come on, the Germans have forgotten about them - the Germans are your friends, not yours, your government and the other political system - but are we going to do something here? I'm telling you, it's money, it's compensation. Let's make a claim on the price of weapons. Why did America do it and put an independent law firm that collects evidence? I'm telling you what we can do. So I'll tell you the mistakes. I told you here that I was the first to point out the error with the EVA algorithm. And I'm confirmed. You don't know what EVA algorithm means here. With the wrong algorithm, you calculated the cases. Now it's getting out slowly with the ETA. You know, I don't believe anyone. You messed up. On the one hand, you go out and say that there's no such thing, but there's evidence and documentary evidence that you've been doing the wrong record. It is also a proposal of mine to the Prime Minister - I will call later and tell him - that all the information should be made public every day on an electronic platform. Crushed, intubated, but by an agency, who will also inform the citizen that in his neighborhood, in his municipality, there is a problem for him to pay more attention. Not to put the Gospel on me, because it's a liar, it's about to terrorize the world. Yesterday he showed his show of death. Minister, do you tolerate it being a journalist on television showing signs of the dead from Thermi? Is that a journalism? Where's the PSE? Show memorials and say they dig graves? Is that how Greece is governed? Where's the PSE? Where is a competent body to intervene? If the numbers are made public, then, but crystal clear, transparent, we won't have a problem. Also goes to "MEGA" Professor Tudas and says 100 thousand death cases. Mrs Papaevangelou comes out and says twenty-five thousand cases. What's the matter? People listen to one another saying 100 and the other twenty-five. That is why I am saying a single platform for anyone, Mr Lebanese, Mr Loverdos, myself, to see what is going on, but on line, and really, as Germany does. Finally, you say that you are Europeans, with a European perspective of solidarity. Hey, fix it. Just so the civilian knows. Mrs Linou says - if she said so at the time of SYRIZA, the government would have fallen - 'I am ashamed to say it, but there was a misunderstanding about the number of cases'. Linou is yours. God-fearing lady, and she said so. Case inaccurate. Who made it inaccurate. Your government. Neither did Lover, nor the rest of us in here, nor Mr. Trev. Nobody. We did it. You, that is, the government. Also, Majorkin comes out and says scientific opinion goes through a political filter. Did you hear that, ladies? Magorini said in a video that scientific opinion was passed by a political filter. This is a science crime. When science becomes political, and when politics becomes science - the relationship and the crime - we have a crime. This is where he should have intervened with the district attorney. We didn't have an intervention. We've been through it like this. Minister of State, Mr. Vesyropoulos, is coming out and I tell your Government, the Association of Businesses for Industrial and Medical Gas Greece, in March by letters, which I will present in the Minutes of the House, and we ask you to contact your Ministry because there is a problem with oxygen. And in Drama there was a problem. In hospitals, there's a problem. Here's the letter from March! The government that did everything well. The oxygen compound that makes the oxygen for hospitals. I'm telling you, you didn't do well. This is for the Minutes. I'll testify to the Minutes. What are you telling me that you did all right and Georgiadis went out and celebrated, we live scored? These are crimes. "SOLD GROUP" a medical gas company has sent Mr. Kontozamanis a letter and explains that oxygen for hospitals is over by all the companies. They can't import. Nothing. Yannitson Hospital, from where I come from, you've got them on the streets with the coronary. They're down! It's thirty-six with COVID from the staff and the others on the runways, without molecular LP, with two pneumonologists. You don't believe it? Here, this is the photo, my dear Mr. Loverdos. Do you see the man? Do you see the man in the COVID hallway? With COVID! To Janitsa. Are you kidding me now? Are we kidding the world? Until when are you going to communicate? Until when will you communicate a false picture, which is not real? If we do not make fun of anyone, it is a huge problem with the government, but it cannot be the Prime Minister's fault for everything. You're making this mistake. All wins from the first moment you gave them to the Prime Minister. All of them. Long live the Prime Minister. Now, the defeat will also be met by the Prime Minister, and his personal profile will be eaten. Where are the advisers, where are his ministers to help him - whose Prime Minister - because on his own no one can do anything. Nothing happens in the world. Also a letter from the Association of Cancer People of Macedonia - Thrace. Failure to provide health services to cancer patients due to the number of CIVID patients. The cancer patients, you guys, the people who live today, but they don't know if they're gonna live tomorrow. And they're sending a letter! Papanikolaou Hospital. Complaint, Minister. You have cut a unique global program to produce specifically lymphocytes T - I don't know what they're called and I don't say it, their announcement says it - for 200,000 euros. It's a COVID investigation. The "Papanikolaou" is the only Greek hospital that conducted an investigation and could provide a solution to the problem and for 200,000 euros that you did not give to the investigation, the investigation was cut. And you give Mr. Evangelato 180 grand to Velopoulos - I say 100 grand to the journalists, to feed the websites, 100 grand. But 200 grand to investigate, also export the product.... It is a complaint from the "Papanikolaou" Hospital. I'll testify to her here in the Minutes. So I tell you that at some point you have to understand that you are making mistakes. The World's Top has come out of the universities, Mr Loverdos and colleagues. The Greek universities have collapsed. There's no investigation. The Metsovio Polytechnics University is in the first five hundred and we are passed by the universities of Pakistan and Turkey. Rejoice with your results! For 200,000 euros, you don't give money to make an investigation into COVID, which is a huge issue. You didn't give the money, cut it out of the investigation, and the investigation ended. So I expect the Prime Minister - because he is sensitive to these issues - to take the initiative himself and say what is going on in 'Papanikolaou'. I was told by doctors. Two hundred grand! I won't tell you about the tests. I did a test of 150 euros at first, because I do often every ten days. Then it went 120 euros, then it went 110 euros, then 150 euros. You've put a plaque now. Nine months they had a party, they were buying money, and now you put a wallet on it. There is no 'good slower than never'. You don't play with health. From the outset, you had to put in valuation. I said that from the beginning in here. From April to May I was telling you to put the test value. Honestly, it's a terrible thing to do. Stupid! Millions of euros have been won by a number of persecutors, grappled. Now let's go to the vaccine. They say your scientists - Mr Chiodras said so - that the increase in cases is due to the mutation of the virus. Because I am a ulcer, I say: Since the virus is mutating, what is the vaccine? The vaccine comes out for a specific virus that is not mutated. If in cases, as Chiodra says, the virus is mutated, then the vaccine is not good or helpless. Your scientists say that. It also comes out of England's national health system, NHS, and says "embolics, best defense against the virus, along with distances, masks and hand washing". It's the commercial you're going to do, I guess. There's a video. I mean, I'm gonna make a vaccine, I'm gonna have distances, I'm gonna wear a mask. Then why the vaccine? You're not an expert, but that's what experts say. These are what confuses the world and cannot be persuaded, gentlemen of the New Democracy, that this story has a scientific basis. You have not been convinced for nine months that the situation is critical and that your choices are correct. And when you're not convinced, that's what you do. What are you doing? You put the "pads" of journalists - "pads" - like Portugal and others - to say "drops" and "drops" to those who have reservations about the vaccine. Have the gentlemen studied medicine, and they're hiding it from us, and I didn't know? Are journalists doctors? Oh, no! Don't talk. But do you know what the Greek people say, Mr. Besiropoulos? Journalists and media are like juke boxers. Whatever money you put, these songs make. You put them in money, they make songs "Have Velopoulos", "Have Mitsotakis". 'Have the New Democracy'. You put them money -40 million - all day a "juke box": "Have New Democracy". The juke box if you don't feed it, but it'll turn it back to the garbage cham, and I don't see you well. Then they're gonna take everything out in the attic, like lately with Parnitha, the walks. I never want to place myself against anyone here personally. Personally, hits “beneath the waist” never did my life. I say this because we must all be careful and, above all, the ministers and the Prime Minister. When he asks the Greeks not to go to church, not to come out, not to go out of his house, to get depressed, to wear the mask all the time - he keeps saying it and the ministers himself - he cannot walk, to make moto percussions, to take walks without a mask, and to make videos! Unauthorized! The image alone! In my village they say that "you know how to steal? Yeah. You know how to hide? Oh, no. Then don't steal." He, uh, he doesn't know, he's stealing! They got him in the act. I'm telling you, any one of the velvets. Let's go to the rest, so I'll be back in a minute. There's a strange coincidence. I hear Members of the New Democracy and other parties saying that those who refuse the vaccine should not be hospitalised because there is a risk to public health. It's a plausible argument. He tells you, "You don't want a vaccine, brother?" I told you, however, that it is not certified to do the vaccine work and it has been proved by the statements of your own scientists. I told you names, I don't speak abstractly. But come on, who are the same people who, on the issue of one million and over five thousand illegal immigrants coming for free and going to our hospitals, are hosted there and receiving medical treatment, do not make a spear, 1.5 billion euros is loss. I remember a question you had given me as Minister of Health had cost me 2.5 billion then the cost of free medical care, Mr Loverdos. I may be wrong, but I think you said 2.5 billion per year. You were a Minister of Health. I say 2.5 billion then ten years ago. 2,5 billion a year in ten years is 25 billion. Twenty-five billion free care! They don't care. There's Ibraim and Hassan. But the Greek, who doesn't want to make the vaccine for his own reasons, won't go to the hospital. That is unacceptable, and it is the only thing they call them elected MPs. They say it on the channels, and they must be ashamed to say that. As regards civil and criminal liability for vaccine side effects, is there a commitment that someone will compensate anyone who does the vaccine? Oh, no! The companies themselves in their contracts are exempted. So how does the state go to impose something when companies on it exclude criminal and civil liability? They're questions that bother me. On the other hand, they are the same people who have a central slogan for abortions. Do you know what these people say? "My body is mine." That's what they say, so the woman can get abortion, abortion. "Her right" they say. As a Orthodox Christian I have another view. It doesn't matter. I can hear it. This is my body, isn't it? I don't want to have a vaccine. Not me. I'm sceptical. Anyone who doesn't want to do the vaccine. In other words, with regard to the murder of a small embryo a month and a half in the woman's belly, the woman has the right to do whatever her body wants. However, the vaccine does not have the right to say that 'I have reservations, I fear'. It's all contradictory. It is also offensive to democracy and justice. The Mayor of Serres comes out and tells you himself - a new democrat is the man, he is not someone else - and he says that illegal immigrants come from the Key daily and walk in the streets for five and six hours and "we locked in our homes". And the blackmail is coming out now. This is disgusting, undemocratic, fascist, nazi. They say this, ladies and gentlemen, that those who do not want to do the vaccine will not go to the restaurants, to their work, to their fun, to their travel will ban air travel. I don't know if it'll be compulsory or optional. But so, with the blackmail here, the vaccine becomes mandatory if I can't get out of my house to go to the restaurant or to my work or to the nursery. Yesterday, the S.T.E. He decided that children who don't do vaccines wouldn't go to kindergartens. Decision of the S.H.E. Yesterday! He decided they wouldn't go to kindergartens. These are unacceptable things to be done in a democracy, in the cradle of democracy, called Greece. Essentially unacceptable! I mean this, because you've been celebrating. ERT showed it. It's your "magaz", isn't it, ERT? ERT is state television, government television. Greece has exceeded the average in the dead of the European Union. We're over it. We are in the fourth place in the European Union to the dead. Your huge success! Because you're making mistakes and you're not listening. I also told the Prime Minister that 'watch out for the algorithm'. From July to May I've been saying it. "Don't make the mistakes and open the Balkans, all northern Greece will be filled." And it happened, unfortunately. Worst of all, what are you doing? You're after the Greek. One woman went to the police station this morning to report domestic violence, Mr Georgiodta - you are a lawyer - and they fined her 300 euros because she did not send SMS. Complaint today. Listen, Mr. Loverdo, because it's tragic. She went to denounce that her husband beat her at the police station this morning and from the police station they wrote her, saying "give us the SMS you sent to come to the police." Her husband beat her! There's a last name complaint. I got her here. Another fine. Mommy went to Thera, if I'm not mistaken, to light a candle on her daughter by the house. Fine, because she lit candles in her child's grave! These are unbelievable. The grandfather went to Zakynthos, if I'm not mistaken, to get the pension from the bank and wrote to him Commander Zakynthos a 300 euro fine, because - he says - he wore the mask under the nose, Mr. Comrade, when 360 euros is his pension, the OGA. And she cried on the sidewalk. You will tell me 'yes, yes, yes'. Give them a mandate to do their job, but don't just catch George and Nikos. Let's get Ibrahim and Fatière, don't just chase the Greeks! Also, the fine to the retired farmer in Elias, who went to get the pension, was two for 300 euros. That is, 600 euros. What can I say? I don't know. To close, therefore, because you have made mistakes, I will say something that, Mr Loverdo, we will have in the coming years. The coronary will pass, guys. It's for granted. The government will also fight, and the rest will be helped, sometime. But Mr Skylakakis comes out and says - a bell for everyone is this, the Minister of Government is - every euro that we spend today is taxes and loans that will be paid by tomorrow's Greeks. Hold that. Every euro! What does that mean? A year and a half now the government has done nothing specific for Greece to produce wealth. They're closing hotels, too. Did TUI pay you, my colleague? No, no, no, no, The Prime Minister's still calling. The 'TUI' which blackmailed the Greek Government came out of the paragraph of the obligation to control COVID - it did - and now it does not pay. This is the Greek Government. Instead of sending the Foreign Minister, the Finance Minister, to force the 'TUI' to push Germany, nothing. Germany, however, gives the 'TUI' state grant. He's doing that too. Three out of four companies ceased operation during the lockdown period. The President of the Athens Trade Association sends an angry letter stating that nothing was predicted for the affected wholesalers. Also, the Prime Minister of the country - listen, here is the sad thing - says he gives the long-term unemployed an allowance, EUR 400 for seven months. Good. But here, he doesn't tell the truth. He doesn't give it to everyone. I mean, he's doing an alchemy, tric accounting. It reminds me of one accountant of calamity, who is trying to make the fish meat. It can't be done. Furthermore, you should see some of the hotel officials who have left, Mr Lebanon, months out of work. They don't get money from the unemployment fund. By April they won't get anything. How will these people live? How will these people live? There is a problem in Greek society, which we will find in front of us in the next few months. The worst is coming. He didn't come. There's gonna be a third lockdown, apparently, in the next few months, but when the coronary's over, it's gonna leave behind burnt earth, really burnt earth, very badly burned earth, and I don't know if it's going to come together. Also, check the banks. I have complaints that they have increased transactions via e-mail by 1 or 1,5 euros. It's yesterday's last complaint. They took over that now the world doesn't come out and put 1 euro on every transaction. I have it in front of me. Are these things? Where's the Minister of Development, Mr. Georgiadis? Each bank charges 1 euros more in an electronic transaction. Why? Now? In this crisis? To understand the mistakes you make - and I close here - I have in front of me the European Union's grants and loans. Listen. The EUR 6.2 billion instead of being given to hotels, to people producing wealth - not just hotels, to produce wealth - where do you give them? You give them to the fortresses, to renewable energy sources, to wind turbines, to photovoltaics. In other words, to understand, the mother of Greek land, the mother of Greek land that can fruit and give added value, you put iron, a bunch of photovoltaics, wind turbines and cement so that they never fruit. You're making mistakes! You're making mistakes! I am telling you, because I want to make a constructive opposition and not an opposition to the train. To close, to say this: Kilkis Company builds drones, Mr Georganta. Why, my child, don't you take the Prime Minister with you, Mr. Georgioda, to go to the company? You'll do it. I've been saying this since July, Minister. Take the Prime Minister out of his hand and take him to the drones. Because this drone, which has nothing to do with the other drone you finance - not you, your government - can also bring missiles. The specific drones in Kilkis, made by the company with European data, the Rhystics and Strombian Engineer Laboratory of the Aristotle, can also bring missiles. The other thing you say will not bring missiles. Cameras only have to see what the enemy does. We need missiles. I'm telling you. These are proposals that we have tabled for too long. Let me say this to make it clear: Mr Georgioda, Mr Besiropoulos, you are Macedonians. Mr. Anastasiades, you are. I do not know how I would feel if Zaf came out and said directly that Bulgaria reacted to its entry into the European Union because Greece supported us. Bulgaria also reacts, because it does not recognise Macedonian ethnicity and Macedonian nation. I hope, I pray and I will light up a big bulb, equal to the booby of Borisov, which is 1,90, wardrobe, on Mount Athos being a good man, because it forbids the Skopje to have the name Macedonia. But you continue to allow it. I'm afraid so. We asked for an examination to see what happened with Mr Kotzias and how we signed and did not do it. We asked for a second examination of the 100 billion lost in SYRIZA's governance and you did not. You were electorally saying that we lost 100 billion from SYRIZA. Do an exam. You don't. And I'm reading what Zafe said yesterday. Listen. "We are leaving the isolations before, because we know that the Macedonian future is European. We will join the European Union as Macedonians who speak Macedonian. That's what I'm going to say. I have to say a lot more, but I sincerely leave you to think, to think, without opposition, but with constructive criticism, to improve what you are doing, because you are making tragic mistakes. And the tragic mistakes when you leave the government, you won't pay them, but the Greek people. And we only serve him and no one else! No fewer men who have refineries, no smugglers, no traders, no mistresses. He needs attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue, I have the honour to inform the House that the Special Permanent Committee on Parliamentary Ethics presents its reports to the public prosecutor's requests for the authorisation of criminal prosecution against MPs. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - Progressive Alliance had requested the floor for two minutes after Mr Georgioda was placed, in order rather to ask the Minister something. Here, Mr. Katsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor because, in fact, the ELTA amendment on the substance is an extra bill within the draft law which is being discussed in accordance with the procedure that has been introduced in the House concerning smuggling. I am therefore taking advantage of the fact as a parliamentary representative to make a comment on the Secretary-General's position and to make my main position following the Minister's speech. Mr Georgioda, I have heard you a little earlier about putting a plating dilemma in this Parliament, but also to those who are listening to us, in Greek society, on whether we should agree to base the universal service compensation on ELTA, to be a universal service provider for the years 2013 to 2020. However, you are concealing the fact that the amendment you are bringing is not about compensation for the universal service, which we could understand for pandemic reasons because the restrictions on State aid have been lifted by the Commission because of the fact that time is due to expire. But that's not all you bring. The amendment is a complete restructuring plan for ELTAs. In essence, you do so, because you are exempted from the public procurement law, you are recruiting private law for a fixed and unlimited period by bypassing the ADP, with suffocating deadlines, with what the administration likes, you are fully changing the working relationships and Mr. That is the essence of the amendment and it is not only the universal one, as you have set this dilemma in the Greek Parliament. That's the first. Secondly, I have to say to you - because you said that the SYRIZA government has a great responsibility for the situation you received in the ELTA - that you personally, Mr Georgioda, were the State Secretary or Minister - I do not remember - of the Samara Government, where at that time the government had not compensated for the universal service in the ELTA for any year. The compensation of the universal service for ELTAs by 2018 - even for the years that you and the Samara government have ruled - has been made on SYRIZA and has been granted 90 million for the years from 2013 to 2018. And because you wondered about the fact that there were omissions on PPC, I have to ask you, Mr Georgiontta, this: After they have become abusive and, finally, PPC has been paid, what exactly do you charge us? At the same time, I have this question to ask you: does your administration, on your own days, make withholdings and does not pay EVA compensation for the workers' insurance contributions? I want you to answer us responsibly, because the workers know very well what is happening to the ELTAs. And one final comment: If you want to tell us that you are cutting out to support and keep under public control the ELTAs and you want to reassure, in any case, the company, to be a competitive company to the private sector that is active, I have nothing more to say to you except your things. What have you done in the middle of a pandemic, Mr Georganta, when the parcel has increased the demand? You have granted a grant, you have made it as a government - and you have given them the right to reduce the costs of renting in the network of their stores. So who serves private interests and what is your purpose, I will mention them in my speech. But it is obvious and clear to the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u99	Mr Minister, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor to answer the questions you have been asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u100	Two minutes, Mr. President. I really cannot understand my colleague in particular on the last point he raised on the advance. The rules for the repayable advance are horizontal, specific, binding and for all companies. I don't understand why he mentions it. With regard to recruitment, Mr Colleague, you have read very well that the evaluation of any notices and, of course, the tables are then carried out under the control and supervision of the AACC, as should be done in all the Greek public companies. Absolutely clear! Of course, people expect to hear answers to other issues. When a company's wage costs are 67% to 70% of the total revenue, can this company continue to work like this? Should it not be in a direct, rapid way to make those structural movements which will enable them to be competitive, to be operational, but at the same time to be sustainable? Based on our design, we want the ELTAs to be profitable after two years and we will try to be profitable. And in very difficult circumstances we have managed to achieve a deficit of EUR 7 million a month for the ELTAs, at the moment being EUR 4.7 million. What are you telling us? To maintain wage costs, to maintain the number of workers who are surplus. But we are giving this staff the possibility of transfers, we are not leaving them. We give him the possibility of moving, we give him the possibility of voluntary exit. But, at the same time, it needs to be flexible, to be able to operate on the market - as it is currently forming - in a competitive way and finally to remain the postal service - that is our objective - qualitative, immediate, rapid and effective throughout the Greek territory, and that is what we will achieve. And whoever wants, today can join and strengthen this effort. All the other fundamentals do not answer the big questions of ELTA’s problems. I want to hear specific suggestions. I don't hear proposals, I don't hear what else needs to be done. You simply say: 'Why did you bring it like that?' How can we bring it? When can we bring it? There are urgent situations - you understand them - and there is a modulated situation that we all know about. Listen to other proposals! I haven't heard any since this morning!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, the reason for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u102	Mr Besiropoulos has the floor, and then the parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, Mr Lebanese, has spoken. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. I will not make more than a minute to clarify as the State Secretary responsible for the repayable advance. Beneficiaries of the repayable advance are all companies - as the State Secretary said - but the criterion of subsistence and the beneficiary of the repayable advance is the reduction of turnover. It's a basic condition. So you can't win over and at the same time get money from the repayable deposit. To get money from the repayable advance, to be the beneficiary, you must have a turnover reduction, so you must have reduced gross revenue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, please speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u106	Look, Mr. Katsy, ping pong is not helping.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u107	Let the arguments be heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u108	Not only are Mr Lebanese, because I am complaining to my fellow Members who are connected, but I do not want to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u109	I'm alone and I'm fighting!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u110	You were given answers. I heard your questions. They may not satisfy you. It doesn't mean there's a rival. Mr Lebanese has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u111	Wait a minute. Do not judge the contents of our battle...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Levant, you leave him...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u113	No, wait a minute, because I want to say something to Mr. Katsey. There's a process. The ministers will be here when you have your speech. Because you said to ask a question and you did the whole placement before. I understand what your location is. Your position is - SYRIZA I mean, not personally - that you want money at the moment for ELTAs, but that they fall like all the previous ones in the blanket, not to restructure the company, not to have a plan that can work, produce profits and be a functional company that does this work that we all want. Mr President, I think that the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman will have the opportunity to develop it in his speech so that the colleagues who are waiting on their screens will also be able to hold their seats, and we can have an overall political debate here and not exchanges of fireworks which do not contribute. In conclusion, I would like to say that we are waiting in your speech, apart from the "flakes", to tell us the program that SYRIZA has precisely about the ELTAs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, personal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u115	No, Mr. Katsy. There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u116	How isn't there? He was poaching!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u117	Listen to something. Personally, I know what it means. I'm judging it. There was no personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u118	Let me explain, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u119	You say that, the side of the New Democracy says otherwise, the JRC is different. There's no staff. Colleagues protest. I gave you the floor to explain - if you have - some things from the Minister, Mr Georgioda
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u120	Let me clarify.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u121	However, further explanation was given as to the repayable advance and by the relevant Minister, Mr Besiropoulos. This is where we close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u122	It's wrong what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u123	I have been protested - I do not want to say - and within the Enthusiasm. And those outside who wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u124	Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u125	You don't have the right, Mr. Katsey.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u126	I can't even justify the staff you won't leave me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u127	I judge if there's any staff. I didn't think there was.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u128	For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u129	When the President considers that there is no staff, he shall not give you the floor to explain what is the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u130	That's obvious.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u131	Can I tell you something? Because I do not monitor statically, but dynamically, we are also positive sciences - the debate, there are positions and positions. It doesn't mean that when we disagree, it's personal. You will develop all your arguments in your normal placement. Mr Efstathis Konstantinides, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor. He's been waiting for us from the start on the screen to take the floor. Immediately after that is Mrs. Sunday Malama. Here, Mr. Constantinidis, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u132	...(Don't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u133	We're not listening very well. Can you hear us? You don't sound, Mr. Constantinidis. Do you have the microphone closed? Try it. You don't sound at all. We will connect with Mrs Malama, not to waste time and try to correct your communication. Here, Mrs Malama, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are debating today does not introduce any radical innovation in the fight against the smuggling of excise goods. In other words, it is not the magic key to combating the smuggling of fuels, tobacco products and others. As our rapporteur rightly pointed out in the draft law in the Committee on Economic Affairs, some finance ministers really tend to believe that their ministry's history starts from their term of office. But it's not like that. Obviously, we all agree on the objective of combating smuggling in fuel products, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. With this bill, however, no new method is introduced, a new strategy. On the contrary, there is a reorder of the existing forces on the basis of previous regulations and of course without guaranteeing the major. In other words, we have heard nothing about strengthening the instruments and human resources of the services that are on the sidewalk every day and are fighting against smuggling, whether it concerns customs, engineering controls or the surveillance of the supply chain. A second issue that needs to be stressed is the targeting of controls. The main issue is the fight against those who create smuggling, namely the fight against smuggling at the source of the literally. On several occasions, for communication, we see this government overthrowing its small smuggling, but it does not show the same determination to the major players in smuggling. Therefore, it is not a question of plundering the ears, nor of creating communication situations, but of protecting public health, bringing revenue to the funds and, above all, of breaking the major smuggling cartels. We are therefore particularly concerned that the current leadership of the Ministry of Finance does not trust the autonomy of the coordinating operational centre. In other words, we do not understand why this instrument should become a ministerial body. In all the countries of Europe, these control functions have been seized for years by the political sphere in question. You, with your confusing predictions, are literally coming back. Therefore, a more general rhetoric on combating smuggling is not sufficient. Institutional and operational empowerment is required. It requires independence in the work of the audit authorities and support in resources and instruments. Is this the case with this bill? Our view is that no, it's not happening. The time will come for valuation and we will have the opportunity to come back. It is also important to consider another dimension in energy products with excise duties. Greece has always experienced the problem of energy poverty and as the state has always taxed - or better overtaxed - fuel for heating and continues to overtax them. Today the country is in Lockdown. Citizens have no money to warm up, especially in mountainous areas. They're the people who literally freeze. If you go to Neochori, Halkidiki, or Polygyros, or to Arnaia, Halkidiki or Agios Prodromos, you will find that the consumption of heating oil is necessary for at least eight months each year. We say that the excise duty on heating oil needs to be reduced and at the same time all regions of Greece join a natural gas network, along with the provision of brave incentives for energy upgrading houses and businesses. This is another view of the fight against the smuggling of fuels which should not be ignored. With regard to the other issues of the bill and, first of all, with regard to the issue of vehicle registration charges: you have stressed and planned increases, which are now being made at the expense of the collapse of the car market, you are forced to get back. However, we should see in practice whether, in the new way, traffic charges are being calculated, some of them with large energy-intensive luxury vehicles. With regard to other citizens, car owners, we would expect the government to take care of the fact that in 2020 the IX holders paid travel fees for twelve months, but traffic was banned because of the quarantine for four of these 12 months. Commonly people paid traffic charges while they couldn't get his car around. This is a collective tax injustice which does not help to build confidence between the citizen and the state. Finally, there was a lot of discussion about whether the tax exemption arrangements for those who return from abroad are really an incentive or not. Our view is that these tax exemptions are very limited and under no circumstances will they bear the results we all want. They also create a sense of injustice to those who chose not to leave, but to stay in the difficult years here and fight overtaxation. We do not want any different speeds of tax treatment and fragmentation arrangements. Our goal is to return the Greeks who left abroad, our doctors, scientists, workers, offering them a stable and, above all, fair tax environment, but in the long run, so that people can actually create here, with their experience and knowledge. In conclusion, I should like to refer to the two ministerial amendments tabled yesterday. You are trying to privatize the ELTAs using a Latin American formula methodology. At a time when the postal project is growing rapidly, you want to dissolve the ELTAs to distribute the package to individuals.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u135	Finish, Mrs. Malama.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, I'll be out in a minute. You show the door to two thousand workers and you degrade this universal service. In other words, hand over the fillet to private individuals, dismantle the company and close the small stores of ELTA in the villages, in the region in general. Your second amendment concerns the horn at the price of the coronary tests. But you do very few things and too late. We reiterate that tests must be free and that extensive tests must be carried out in the community. We don't understand why you prefer quarantine to tracing. Test now, everywhere and for free. We've told you and everyone else for 12 months. In common, people paid traffic fees, paid their tests, and all health workers and all your scientists keep telling you the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much, Mrs Malama. Before I give the floor to Mr Constantinidis again, after we have tried to hear it, I will give a reminder to all colleagues whether they are present or listen to us. Everyone must read - because issues are always raised - Article 68. Personal topic is only when there is abusive expression or falsification of what is called.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u138	When he throws fireworks, isn't it personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u139	There was neither abusive nor falsifying here. The President judges this in the Rules of Procedure, but I want to read it because you say to me every time on a personal subject. The different political position is not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u140	Thank you for the lessons.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u141	I express my position and the other one, Mr Alexiadis. Read Article 68 well and then I'll be available. Mr Constantinidis has the floor. Can you hear us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u142	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It doesn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u143	You don't sound good. Start and see if we don't hear you, we'll let you know we're not listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u144	Can you hear me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Constantinidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u146	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It doesn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u147	Unfortunately, since the morning I see you, you can't hear from us. You can do something, because it's a shame to speak? I'll give you some time to try it. We shall proceed to the next speaker by Mr Constantine Maraveya from New Democracy. Mr. Maraveya, you have the floor for seven minutes. Please try to be within your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, thank you very much. I'll try to be in my time. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my position in a few words on the quality of the opposition that chooses these difficult months for SYRIZA to exercise. In support of my argument, I describe Mr. Tsipras' visit to Drama's General Hospital and the video clips that SYRIZA made on social networks. The moments are critical and demand seriousness from everyone. However, this does not seem to have been understood by colleagues in SYRIZA, since they preferred to use part of the emergency situation in northern Greece with the production of strange roads that remind most of the midday television show. We heard the reporting music impact, we saw drones surpassing the General Hospital of Dramas for maximum filming effect and Mr. Tsipras sitting outside the hospital, discussing with friends and members of SYRIZA. The object of this spontaneous - supposedly - was how we would move from the applause to the demands of the ERC staff. So Mr Tsipras went there, not to propose his own solutions, but to leave the applause and to get, as he said, the demands of health. But you're gonna tell me, he's Chief of Officer Response, shouldn't he listen to the citizens and convey their suggestions? I wonder, however: during such a serious emergency or crisis, such as the current crisis, is the role of any politician simply to carry sectoral and regional demands? Is it not the role of all of us, at least as responsible as we feel, of putting forward processed proposals to deal with the pandemic and of supporting directly effective realistic solutions that are being given? In our country, however, it seems that we will be waiting too long to see a responsible attitude on behalf of the Officerate in relation to the measures taken by the Government to deal with the coronary. The billions of euros to support the ESS and the thousands of new recruitments to staff the hospitals promoted by the Ministry of Health are obviously for SYRIZA insignificant crustaceans and instead calls for a new RS with fifteen thousand recruitments and 7% of GDP for health. And here, however, it continues to be exploited to every positive measure of the Mitsotakis Government, because no one is responding, of course, that there were no phenomenal ideas in their own governance. And even more, since they claim they had, they should have given the famous 37 billion-dollar pillow, but instead they preferred nothing to do by SYRIZA colleagues than they are advertising today. Ladies and gentlemen, to proceed with today's bill, I must first of all note that it is a coherent set of measures to combat smuggling in various sectors of the marketing and marketing of products. It concerns a grid of technical, administrative and legal interventions in order to stop the bleeding of the Greek public, which loses valuable resources from smuggling, but also to make consumers of dangerous products of their health, of low quality and of dubious value. To connect all this to the state of public health, to which I have already referred, I will focus on Part II of this bill on the ratification of the Protocol on the Elimination of Illicit Trade in Tobacco. This is specifically Article 28 and the implementation of the Framework Convention of the World Health Organisation for tobacco control and in our country. It is one of those things I mentioned before, that SYRIZA started since 2015, but once again it was not possible to complete. A Interministerial Committee was set up at the time with the participation of the Ministries of Economic and Health for the ratification of the Protocol we are discussing today, but, as it is clear, the five years of governance did not arrive. Mr President, thankfully, this frustration now belongs to the past. And we are coming today, among other things, to ratify this Implementing Protocol, which comes from Article 15 of the Framework Convention of the World Health Organisation, with regard to the reduction of all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. In this it is recognised that illegal trade in tobacco products undermines the national economy, creating major revenue losses and at the same time adversely affects the safety of our society and health objectives, particularly in relation to young people, our poorest fellow citizens and the most vulnerable social groups. In medical capacity, unfortunately, I see the impact of this phenomenon daily on smokers over time, but much more now, at the time of pandemic. The increasing risks of cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and other conditions that we see contribute to observed segregation are multiplied by smuggling of tobacco products. This is the most common case of cigarettes with a multitude of dangerous or unrelated impurities that make their traceability impossible. In this respect, the recent operation in our country of the Pan-European Tobacco Monitoring and Identification System enables it to be more easily traced through Greece within the European Union, thereby ensuring that they meet the basic safety standards. However, tobacco products, unfortunately, are still the biggest avoidable cause of early death in the European Union and especially in our country. It is therefore very important that, with the ratification of this Protocol and Greece join the group of states that impose stricter controls on the disposal and movement of smuggling and dangerous products for public health. The most important thing, however, of all the relevant interventions of the New Democracy Government, which are more important, will be to say - even from this ban on smoking in closed and shared areas, is the inclusion of the Ministry of Health Prevention Prevention programme for the Recovery Fund. It is the most important public health reform, which will obviously also involve reducing the consumption of each tobacco product in the country. It will be another opportunity for everyone to agree on the obvious, such as the protection of public health. I therefore hope that, when the final text of our agreement with the European Union on the Recovery Fund comes to Parliament, there will be no contradictions, particularly for such an important purpose, such as smoking prevention and reduction. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying a few words about the amendment on the transformation of the ELTAs. They spin Greek Posts permanently page, modernise and continue their work on the basis of two pillars, firstly, the strengthening of corporate governance, and secondly, the effective operation of the company by decoupling it by legislative provisions that do not comply with the work provided and the modern requirements of a post company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr. Maraveya. Good afternoon, too. The President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) Party of European Socialists (Christian Democrats) Party of European Socialists Here, Mr Varoufakis, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill concerns - as part of the fight against smuggling - the digital infrastructure that will support this project. That is the point, and it is very important, because today the only way to control this kind of greedy economy is through proper supervision that will give you digital media. In the world, this is experience. So digital support for excise duty on what the Anglo-Saxon "the goods of sin", tobacco, alcohol, fuel and so on. We read your bill, Minister, and we see the creation of a series of digital registers, in Article 4, the register of branded alcoholic beverages, in Article 5, the electronic system for the identification of spirits, Articles 8 and 9 of incoming/output LPG systems, in Article 14 system for the identification of geographical locations - I imagine GPS - means of transport. All these computer files, all this digital infrastructure is not just a matter of a tool, it is not just tools that help to combat tax evasion on one hand and, of course, smuggling on the other. It's much more important than that. There are three major dimensions. The first dimension concerns rights and individual freedoms. Anything that has to do with digital personal data files - I do not need to expand to it - concerns rights issues that have an absolute connection to the way in which the digitisation of life has an impact, is linked to the ability of people to live in an environment that does not remind of Orwell's '1984'. The second dimension, you will allow me to say, has something to do with national security, with national sovereignty. The more we digitize the registers, the tax system, the easier one is to have a button that hits it and the government, the Greek state, the Greek state to lose control of these files, these digits. There is a major national security issue. Of course, the third dimension is the development dimension. Essentially, this system is built a little bit - a little, which began to be built by PASOK in 2010-2011, the digitisation of the public, the creation of these registers, networks, software, is what was in the '50s of PPC. PPC was a network built by the public sector, because the private sector failed to build an efficient and geographically complete electricity network. Building PPC since the '50s the Greek State has essentially created new industries, new branches, all of them. Through these important investments, electricity, the creation of all these small businesses, which were added to the ecosystem built by PPC - together with the counter-comparison of course, we do not forget this - the political economy of modern Greece, post-war Greece, was essentially created. That's what software does today. All these files you create, all these systems are either for smuggling, or it's for the AIA, whatever it is, it's a golden opportunity for the new technological digital revolution for the modern PPC, as I say. Unfortunately, Minister, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, your bill actually wastes this huge opportunity. I said this in September, if I remember correctly, in the debate on digital governance. The reason is one simple: everything in the ADP. All these articles I mentioned before, the records you were building, you are supposed to deliver them to the Independent - supposedly - Public Income Authority, which you do not control, which we do not control as a Parliament, which is controlled by the lenders, which is a part of the Greek State that makes the Greek State look like Swiss cheese, which is set, as you know very well from the holes that it has, not from its cheese. It's not a record like the register of commercial alcoholic beverages, like a bridge, Minister. A bridge you want to build, you have the funds, you assign its construction, its study to a company, it builds it, there are certain specifications. No problem. This is much more important and much more complicated. It is about the creation of networks and economies of scale and of economies of purpose. When these "final state", as you say, you deliver them, you actually deliver the backbone of the new technological revolution to a principle, which is entirely dependent on lenders and is not controlled by you as Ministers or by us as Parliament, we deliver the potential for development, the prospect of national independence and security, and the first dimension to which I referred before, human rights, individual rights on our own information, on each and every Greek citizen's data. The ultimate state with what you are doing today, which you are handing over to the independent authority all this important infrastructure - it is important, well you do and build it, but not to the AIA - instead of a state that will end up - we have already ended up - the Greek state being a sad feud without even a feudal. The feudal man doesn't even know where he is, he's somewhere else. Instead of a state, ladies and gentlemen of the Coupling and the Government, we end up in perfection - a state, a postmodern. You see today in the midst of a pandemic what that means, what it means is lacking a true national sovereignty over public software. Everyone does what it smokes, without transparency, without a programme, without a system. There is no transparency in data and software. I hope there will be a debate on Friday on the issues of pandemic, on the use of data and on the double books we learn from the press that there are and we now see it confirmed by government representatives, even on the basis of registries and digital data that a little bit by digging out that they have been allocated to specific companies in ways that I think you should not be satisfied with. What can be the confidence of the citizen in a state that has essentially allocated popular and national and democratic sovereignty to all these tools and has given it every day without a programme, without a system, without an organisation, to various individuals who eventually end up in the 'SILICON VALLEY', to a company that has all this information and to COVID 19, and to tax data and now also to smuggling without even knowing who is the dominant of this data? In this context, you also have a government that doesn't like to hear on the stage of propaganda, the Prime Minister's communication that we had no idea how many thousands of cases and he says "good we'll have fewer cases, we'll do less tests today." This process, you know, brings together, marries short-term and long-term loss. Short-term loss is the loss of confidence among the citizen in the middle of a pandemic, the long-term loss of the ability of this state to use the new digital infrastructure in a structured way, so that we can build the new technological revolution that I hope will not lose as we have lost the previous one. Minister, I was telling you - and I am glad to see you again - in your digital governance bill in September - I read it from the Minutes of this House - 'Is it possible for tax software to be out of the bill? Is it possible that the Department of Digital Governance does not have access to the most important software in the country and that ADP remains dependent on the Troika? Can there be companies such as 'SILICON VALLEY' that can press a button and the Ministry of Finance does not have access to the tax information of citizens?' Do you have the opportunity, Minister, at this moment to commit to me that these registers you are going to make, will you control them? I don't think you do. Because it does not fall under your own supervision. Neither yours nor ours as a parliament. It falls somewhere in the "between". This "between" is the gap in which the complexity, adequacy and digital inefficiency are planted. As for SYRIZA's colleagues, I will remind you once again: I hope you will not forget that this transfer of national sovereignty of the ADA to the troika took place with your vote and your signature. I hope you understand that the recovery of this national sovereignty over these digital tools requires the break with the troika, which you have not done and which I do not hear you say...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u151	Who, Minister, Mr. Varoufakis, committed himself to this in February 2015?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u152	Don't interrupt him, Mr. Alexiadis. Go on, Mr. Varoufakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u153	No, I, my dear, Mr Alexiadis. I'm so sad about what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u154	I'm asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u155	Not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u156	No dialogue. Go on, Mr. Varoufakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u157	After my departure, when you climbed a little higher than where you were before my departure, along with Mr. Tsakalotos signed. He hated me and the troika hated me because I didn't sign what you signed. And if you were a little more consistent with yourself, you wouldn't have put yourself in the difficult position you are right now, forced to hear what you just heard. You're not good enough to be selfish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u158	I'm selfish? You say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u159	Yes, I said: You're not good enough to be selfish. Think about what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u160	No designations and continue, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u161	I do not mind dialogue, Mr President. I wish we could have a more lively dialogue in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u162	You know what would happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u163	Yeah. I think it would be very interesting if Parliament had a real dialogue. But anyway, this is another debate that we have to do in the context of the debate on the Rules of Procedure of the House. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, today's bill is faced with a problem that is real, smuggling into tobacco, alcohol, fuel, but is a downward problem. Because we hope that the anti-smoking campaign works a little - a little - people will not smoke, we hope that fossil fuels will disappear and be replaced by green renewable energy. But what replaces, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of smuggling and will become an increasing problem is what I am calling - you will allow me - the 'digital para-economics'. Today, smuggling replaces it as a threat - both to small and medium-sized enterprises in society and to the Ministry of Finance in public revenues - the digital colloquium platforms, you know, Amazon, Facebook, Google etc. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem with these companies is not simply that they are large monopolies. Take Facebook company, for example. At the time you go to Facebook either as a user or as a New Democracy to promote your party's campaigns or as a Mera25 or as a SYRIZA, it's the equivalent of getting out of Lockdown, under normal circumstances, and being on a commercial road in Ermos, for example. But imagine Ermos where all shops belong to a business, asphalt, pavement belong to a business, the benches where you sit belong to a business, the trees belong to a business, the buildings, the walls belong to a business, the air that you breathe belongs to a business. That's Amazon. It's not even a monopoly. It's a platform - Amazon, Facebook, Google - when you get caught in it. Rosa Luxemburg had said about a hundred years ago about the trasts that they extend to vast areas in each length and width of the earth to expropriate and merchandise the earth, hidden mineral treasures, valleys, forests and water. Today's digital magmas do something much more interesting and much more scarier. They expropriate, monopolize and capitalize in every length and every wide earth every book, every song, every film, every tool. And what are they doing? They are extracted from the local market, taken from the local economy's turnover. At the same time, they expropriate, monopolize and capitalize on each length and each width of the earth, each GPS geographical mark. In other words, when you go from here to your ministry through your mobile phone, Google knows where you are and that adds to its capital base, not only to its income, but to its capital base. With every prescription or medical diagnosis through the various platforms, with every personal photo that one is uploading on Facebook, with every person given building information banks, networks and software to deal with this inappropriate value. So make you, rulers, not only in Greece, but in general, non-existent, poor, mandated - though elected - governments. What, then, is the smuggling of cigarettes in the face of this digital black economy? We, as a PART25, are taking part in the Pan-European Diem25 movement, which is also taking part in the Progressive International movement. A brief statement: Last Friday that was black Friday - you know what that means, unfortunately we all know - we organised a worldwide mobilisation, a campaign. There were trade unions and organizations that list two hundred million people. The first strike started in Bangladesh in the morning in "AMAZON". After a few hours in Poznan, Poland, it was extended to France, the United States, Mexico, Spain, India, Britain, Germany, where two and a half thousand employees in ‘AMAZON’ are constantly working. Why? Why such a campaign? Because here there's a field of understanding between us, Left and supposed liberal Right, because that's how you say you are. What's the field of cooperation? On the one hand you have an Amazon that robotizes and induces workers in conditions in which no one would want to see their children work. On the other hand, it destroys small and medium-sized enterprises. At the moment there is a double tax evasion, due to Amazon for example, in Greece. One is tax evasion and the fact that - to say it simply - when you buy a book from 'AMAZON', it will not pay one minute tax to you, Mr. Stagira, in the Ministry of Finance on profits. A bookstore out here will pay if it has - hopefully - profits. 'AMAZON' will not give you one euro, just as it has not given one euro to any country in the world, but especially here. This is the kind of tax evasion. The second type of tax evasion concerns tax evasion in capital added tax. Because when you use either "AMAZON", either Google, or Facebook, when you post a photo, a text, an article, a propaganda report of the New Democracy or Mera25 -- it doesn't matter - in their file, you add to the capital. Who gets the dividends? Facebook. No one in Greece who adds to Facebook's capital takes a piece of these Capital Gains. This unfair competition from bookshops to businesses producing and selling clothing, footwear, electrical appliances, exploitation of cultural goods derivatives through Spotify, through Netflix or EUR 1, you cannot tax these businesses to give, for example, the Greek Film Center. When you as a party put on Facebook, not even 1 euro returns to Mr Stakoura, to the public fund in the form of a tax on Facebook profits. That is why we see that in a number of dozen countries it is now being legislated if it has not already been legislation - for example, it has already been legislation in the United Kingdom, in France, and you know very well why I imagine, Italy, Indonesia - a minimum tax on the turnover of these businesses, the turnover produced domestically. We do not need AMAZON to have warehouses here to charge 4%, which is the amendment we have tabled today. They went to Australia further. I do not know if you are aware of this, but in Google in particular, but also in other such businesses that are looking for and using the production of people's minds in Australia, they have set them up beforehand. Whether you agree with the Australian Press on a sum you give to use the articles published in it, or we will put you a tax directly, which will then be used to support the production of a press release, the production of books, the production of culture. That's a little pushed for today. The amendment which we are tabling, and I ask both the government and the opposition to support, is for a 4% tax on FANGS revenue. Some say, "But what are you talking about, Baroufakis? You're messing with 'AMAZON'. We want to save and it is good that AMAZON comes to invest here, logistics etc. First of all, it's not just us. In Britain there is this tax, in France there is this tax. It does not prevent AMAZON from investing here. Do you know what prevents ‘AMAZON’ from investing? Good job. Because we don't want warehouses here. We don't want the humanisation of our people working at three and sixty an hour and working under the conditions they work in Bangladesh, but also in Seattle and New Jersey. If they want to bring here servers and bring good computer mechanics positions, yeah. In order to bring them here, however, one thing must be done, to abolish the tax advance, to place the tax on companies at lower levels, to drop the VAT, not to let small and medium-sized enterprises be destroyed by AMAZON, not accepting the amendment that we are tabling to you. In conclusion and in summary, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who controls a country's tax software, the production of tax software and its development has in its hands the future, has in its hands the green digital technological revolution. Unfortunately, the bill delivers you to the hands of unknown companies, which probably end up in "SILICON VALLEY", all this perspective of the green digital technological revolution. Ladies and gentlemen, any country that does not sing the digital black economy of the funds will lose whole 'ecosystems' of small and medium-sized startups and cultural producers. And it's not, you know, just on the left that arrows come in the practices of these mathematics, in the practices of this digital paranoid economy. In the United States, in Congress, in the Senate a few days ago, the President of the Senate Sub-Committee dealing with anti-republican issues, not even Democratic - David Kikilin came to the committee's conclusion, saying that companies like Google and AMAZON should be broken, with the words "If we don't find such a solution, we will no longer have a democracy". You can today, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if you choose to answer the question of our grandchildren, of the new generation, when in ten, twenty years, when we will be very old, will they ask us the question: What have you done when the digital black economy destroyed our country, with the modern smuggling of cultural goods, with the expropriation of national software, with the free delivery of our data to unscrupulous colosses? If, instead of the ELTA amendment and actually preparing them for their delivery to another multinational sinful colossus - we will discuss this at another time - support our amendment, at least you will be able to tell your grandchildren at some point that, on 2 December 2020, we have a start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, please, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u166	Here, Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, on behalf of the electronic control systems, because you raised it as a matter, but your rapporteur, too, put it in his original position, the specifications and conditions for the operation of electronic control systems are laid down by common ministerial decisions of the Minister for Finance, the co-legislators and the Minister for Digital Governance. The AACC, the Independent Public Revenue Authority, as a body responsible for the customs infringement of smuggling, manages these systems, but to which all the relevant departments will have access. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u168	Thank you too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u169	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u170	Here, Mr Varoufakis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Minister, for clarifying it, but unfortunately, I do not think it has anything to do with what I said. As to having access, you will obviously have access. That's all you need not have access to! The question is: Who's gonna write it? Who's gonna control it? What server will he live on? Is there going to be someone other than the Greek state who can press a button and lose access? That is the question I have raised and you cannot answer that. And you cannot answer me, because since the third memorandum was signed, and the AACC has officially passed now - you have started doing so with this second one, I mean the New Democracy - PASOK - at this point in the debt-government, you cannot answer these questions, do not fall within your jurisdiction. The Greek state has transferred these.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u172	You gave it to her, Mr. Varoufakis, when you were Minister of Finance, when you granted the public property for ninety years and when you made such decisions and brought the third and inappropriate memorandum. I'm telling you that the Independent Public Revenue Authority handles this system as a department responsible for the customs violation of smuggling.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u173	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u174	You told us that you like dialogue, but there is also a Bureau, Mr Varoufakis. Now he's gonna want to answer, then you guys get back up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, he spoke of me personally. I'm requesting 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u176	Here, Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u177	Minister, it wasn't me, Minister. I hated the troika and the interior troika because I didn't sign those old papers. I never signed that. Talk to those who signed them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u178	Mr. Katsis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. For ten seconds only I would like to comment, as the Secretary of Mera25 called me, Mr Varoufakis, on how we will be placed in the amendment, which I admit has a special interest. But I would like to think about it. First of all, we are positive about this initiative taken by Mera25 on the content of the amendment. However, in order not to drop this amendment to the courts, as has been done in other European countries, to take a pressure initiative towards the government, which I call on this Step to immediately integrate the Audiovisual Media Services Directive into AVMSD, which was adopted in 2018 - Greece played a leading role - and which de facto imposes taxation on Netflix Internet entertainment platforms, 'AMAZON', etc. We call on the government, if not right now, to commit itself to adopting - and why is it being delayed? - the incorporation of this European Audiovisual Media Services Directive and what tax it will impose on Netflix so that this amendment can then come and be buttoned on other entertainment services. I therefore believe that it is necessary to ensure that the Member States of the European Union do not compete with each other on what tax they impose on the platforms, firstly we must follow the European directive which has been incorporated and Greece has played a leading role in order to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u180	Thank you too, Mr. Katsey. I will give the floor to the Minister of Digital Governance, Mr. Kyriakos Pierakakis, for the amendment with a general number of 598 and a special 101 on the regulation for the Hellenic Post and other provisions. Because I imagine, Mr. Loverdo, Mr. Katsey, I will give you the floor from two minutes later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, among the provisions of the draft law you are asked to vote on are provisions introduced yesterday regarding the Hellenic Post Office. A few days ago and a few weeks ago, the post offices entered the international public debate with other concerns. We have seen, for example, the case of the letter of vote in the United States, a political issue. This is more useful, however, for one to think that, while talking about digital technologies and about the digital transformation of countries, functions that seem more traditional have an absolute need, a role and a future, since one can ensure conditions of sustainability and new modes of operation. And that is exactly what the government's approach to the future of Greek Posts comes to do. The problem has been analysed. There is one issue in relation to the transformation of the company in general. There is an international drop in the letter, there is blooming in the package, in the courier, which the company - because it has not translated digitally - is unable to provide potential and positive results to the extent that it could. And that's exactly why we're making a move, in a transformation plan, the Ministry of Finance and us. I want from this Step forward to thank Mr Christos Stakoura and all his team for shaping this plan with us, the SCHAP and the administration of the ELTAs, so that we can bring the company to 2021. This plan has at core a rationalization plan for wage spending through voluntary exit. He's got the digital transformation in his core. In fact, our company has informed us that some initial actions will be able to communicate them and very directly in relation to initiatives. The core of financing the plan is an increase in the share capital from the SIPS of EUR 100 million. It is expected to see whether the existing private shareholder of Eurobank will also participate in the capital increase. And of course, at the same time, we are making the full repayment of the universal service for the years 2013 and then. This model is a similar to that followed by most European countries in the transformation of their postal services. One such case is Denmark. Significant changes have already been made before we get to this planning by the administration. For example, the company's monthly deficit has been reduced from EUR 7 million to more than EUR 4.7 million. Nevertheless, in a company that has a wage bill of 67% of its total budget, the changes that need to be made are self-evident and must be very rapid. Because some opinions have already been heard, I think it goes without saying that the financing of the company by the Greek taxpayer, especially at this juncture, must come under conditions. The conditions relate not only to the company's survival, but to the company's viability. To be able, in other words, to really be able to make use of this money, so that it can get to the point where it deserves it. Any other alternative, the alternative to financing without internal reform in the company's organisational model or its wider operation, things which are reflected by provisions in the existing amendment, would be an indirect aid to all those who expect to see this company eventually collapse or not to have helped it. So, in that sense, these moves are absolutely self-evident. In this context, let me say that the aim is to modernise a company. What we are doing is something that has happened five, ten or even fifteen years ago in other European countries. We're doing it now. The universal service will continue to be provided normally throughout the territory. Of course - and I will close with this thought - in relation to many things that have been heard, even with our intention to ultimately see the Greek taxpayer, the state, get his money behind this action of increasing equity. We should be able to overcome a lot of the taboos of the past. I think it was Lincoln who said that the doctrines of the quiet past are inadequate for the glorious present. And because the occasion is difficult, we must be able to lift to the height of the occasion. That is exactly what we have to do with this plan. That's what we do with this plan. And that is why we invite you to support it for the next day of the Greek Posts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much, Minister. Parliamentary spokesman from the Change Movement, Mr Loverdos, has the floor now. I imagine you want the floor for the amendment. Happy birthday to you yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, the amendment is correct. Thank you. Taking advantage of Mr Pierracakis' presence here, I would like to ask him one, a half a question. Because, Minister, there has been a lot of discussion this 15 months - sixteen months that you are in the governance of the place for the reforms, their value and the need for reforms that our country has - a debate with which I do not disagree at all, because I strongly support institutional reforms and reforms in the field of the economy - it is useful many times to see whether something that is presented as an important reform is indeed such and is done in time. Half my question is about time. Why did you have to wait a year and a half to bring in an amendment that, as our rapporteur, Mr Kegeroglu, said in his speech this morning, is a carbon, is about the same, or is it exactly the same - I am not quite an expert - to the corresponding one in PPC? Are you late to go to nothing but have to deal with payment issues, expenditure on the immediate future? I don't know if it's for this month or next or next. But have you such an emergency? Are you late? Are the circumstances relating to citizens' restrictions on their economics and social function or have you been indifferent, do you not look into the matter in time and come late? That's half. The whole question, however, is different. How so, on such a serious issue, which has its components at the crossroads, on the crossroads of problems relating to communication, on the services for the benefit of the citizen, and on the workers, as it seems, rather than passing through the normal legislative procedure, which gives you the advantage, but also in Greek society and, of course, in the House, on the social consultation, on the political consultation, on the intervention of the Prefecture Committee, on the basis of the assessment of the relevant committee of Parliament, on the evaluation by the Scientific Council of Parliament of the institutional dimensions of your intervention, on how you ignored all this and came the priority of the debate in plenary to tell us the words you have told us here, which I do not want to undermine. I'm watching you as you say. I could undermine you on the basis of what I said. I don't think it's appropriate for me to do this. Why did you see it like that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr. Loverdos. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Loverdo, allow me to begin by saying that all this time we have been taking action and if we hadn't told them, we would be unfair to an administration that made them...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u186	There's a problem. Because we're talking with masks, we don't sound good, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Loverdo, I'll scream harder. I say that all this time, action has been taken by an administration which is diligent and of great interest and has already begun. Because you know that this plan has too many parameters, national and European, which had to be studied. And it started on a base that wasn't from the outset founded on the first day. He had to stand. After all, what I said before was that, in fact, what we are talking about is a long-standing one. Many previous governments should have been able to resolve this issue very quickly and that has not been done so far. Let's do something that Denmark and other countries, like Ireland, did five, ten, fifteen years ago. Within this year, the company's monthly deficit has already been reduced. It has already changed and consultation has been held by the EITT, the National Telecommunications and Post Commission, the distribution frequency from χ+1 to χ+3. I would like to say that a lot of things have already been started. The development, however, of a comprehensive project involving a thorough digital transformation plan, which includes a thorough output voluntary project, which includes a number of other things in relation to the network and the models of organisational operation, was of course needed training time. And for that very reason, it is present in its entirety at the moment. I had the opportunity to mention it yesterday that the solution to the ELTA problem cannot wait any longer. The monthly deficit now occurs every month and for this very reason, because the company has very high liquidity needs, we have chosen to come right now and legislate, as long as the plan is ready and if all this consultation, both internally and externally, has been completed, to start without further delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much. I should like to inform my fellow Members that we will start with Mr Constantinidis - and we hope to hear him - then I will go to Mr Katrin, then to the Greek Parliamentary Representative, then to the Parliamentary Representative by SYRIZA, if there is no intervention by the Minister for an amendment. Mr. Constantinidis, can you hear us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u189	I can hear you, Mr. President. How about you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u190	Very well. You have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u191	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill on dealing with smuggling, a time-consuming problem, which unfortunately remains still current. We are therefore called upon to deal more effectively with this kind of violation, which is disrupting basic functions of socio-economic life, and does not allow the country to develop all its potential. It is so if we consider how much revenue is lost every year by the illicit trafficking in fuel, beverages, tobacco, coffee, medicines, food and other products. I think the majority rapporteur has rightly reserved for the real level of smuggling. However, it is not questioned by anyone that its turnover amounts to hundreds of millions of euros. They are sizes, money missing from the national economy, they damage fiscal stability and they cause huge distortions in the market, in competition and ultimately, indignation among honest professionals and society. It is therefore the smuggling of an area in which the country has not done as well as we would have liked, despite occasionally ambitious efforts and makes sense, when for decades the persecutive system has been operating in an anachronistic context, while it has been lacking in resources, in equipment, while crime on the other hand had peak tools. Finally, as long as the State was unable to prevent illegal activity, it imposed unbearable tax and duty burdens on the contributors in an effort to compensate for losses. Of course, this model always works vice versa, after it feeds the duty avoidance. The greater the burdens, the stronger the incentives to resort to these practices. However, apart from the economic dimension as important is the threat to the health of citizens, since smuggling products are usually of unknown origin. They may be frustrated, corrupted, and then definitely too dangerous. Therefore, the draft law answers the critical issues, identifies the malfunctions in the audit process, encourages and strengthens the officials in their prosecuting work, equips existing structures and creates new ones where necessary. In addition, it modernises the institutional arsenal. The arrangements relating to the operation of the coordinating operational centre and the electronic application made available to it, the establishment of the database on traders operating in the supply chain of alcoholic beverages and the identification system for such products, the register for the registration of tanks, storage and handling of energy goods, the strengthening of the audit procedure in oil and tobacco trade, as well as targeted interventions in the ratification framework and, finally, the information for consumers on unfair practices are some of the essential improvements made in the draft law. This is therefore an integrated intervention on smuggling, which creates good expectations of serving its objectives. Furthermore, it is essential to ratify the relevant protocol to another chapter of the framework Convention on Tobacco Control, as well as to harmonise the provisions for calculating the registration fee and traffic charges, in accordance with the European and global methods for measuring emissions of pollutants. Furthermore, those who have been able to engage in procedures for the management of schoolhouses, public property and similar cases certainly understand the value and necessity of the interventions to be made both for people who are assigned these tasks and for the best use of the assets. Finally, a very interesting regulation is that of Article 40, which seeks to acquire tax residence in Greece by people who acquire income from an employed and entrepreneurial activity in the domestic area by providing incentives. As is the case with other related arrangements, Greece seeks to attract new tax residents in order to strengthen its revenues. Similar practices are of course applied throughout the world. Ladies and gentlemen, we must understand that economies are changing, employment conditions too. Whether we like it or not, remote work has come to stay all over the world, especially for large businesses. With the data to be formed in the post-Korean era, we must soon, with a corresponding provision, attract to the country - and make them its tax residents - people who can stay here, but work remotely in large foreign operations, that is, where they are already working. They are citizens who are supposedly highly trained and highly paid, and their attraction will also serve the target of Brain Drain. De lege ferenda: At the same time, we must review the level of excise duty - we must admit that in some species it is too high - in the direction of reduction, so as not to encourage smuggling and, ultimately, through the legitimisation of some of the smuggled transactions, we must also increase public revenue. In view of the particular circumstances arising from the pandemic, I propose that the scope of Article 16 of Law No.4714/2020 should be extended to cover tax disputes by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which is based not on the time of the case, which is dependent on the administration, but, until now, on the implementation of a corresponding provision, on customs disputes, for example, the non-payment of excise duty, which is similar to taxes. The Communist Party blames fundamentalism when it is known that smuggling was on the streets of the former Soviet countries, even for poor species. Finally, given the wide acceptance of the provisions of the draft legislation, both in consultation and in parliamentary processing, I recommend that it be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u192	Thank you very much, Mr Constantinidis, for keeping time. From Kosani to the Peloponnese, to the Prefecture of Ilias and to Mr Katrin from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much, Mr President. It will be interesting for someone from the government's political leadership to tell us why Mr Constantinidis has tried three or four times to connect and speak in plenary - it is not, moreover, the first time that this has happened in a committee or plenary procedure - and to tell us if he believes that the network problem is here, is in Kozani or is in any other prefecture of the country that we see here, in Parliament having similar problems. It will be very interesting to tell us what they think about it. I will start my position, since now it is not a representative of the Ministry of Finance, reminding Mr Stakoura that we had requested a month and a half ago - when he said that he would give a EUR 1 billion repayable advance in November and another EUR 700 million in December - and we told him that obviously, because it is outside economic and social reality, this money is not enough and must give at least EUR 4 billion. We read that over EUR 1.5 billion has already been disbursed in three hundred ten thousand businesses and all those applying for are four hundred and fifty thousand in November. More than EUR 2.2 billion will be disbursed in the first phase of the repayable advance. I do not know if the government is planning a second phase to finally reach the EUR 4 billion we have been telling her for a month that it has to calculate for these two phases. I do not know whether there is money to be paid by all those who applied for and who are beneficiaries of the refund, at the same time as we hear too many complaints from new businesses that do not go in, at the same time as farmers and farmers who happened to cut invoices in September or October, are being thrown out, despite the fact that they are affected and have suffered a great reduction in cigarettes in the first ten months of 2020. I don't know if that's what the government and the Treasury are interested in. Let the Minister answer: Is there any money to give to all those who are beneficiaries? It should be December again in the fifth phase, so that no professionals, no self-employed, no farmer or farmer can feel that in this difficult crisis he is helpless. With regard to the bill, PASOK has introduced the current Customs Code, so it is normal for us to support every attempt to introduce new and modern tools to combat smuggling. But is there any desire for the government to really smuggle smuggling? It's still proving. Because, according to the budget submitted by the government, it does not have great expectations of revenues from customs fines, and in previous years the receipts were much less than the fines established. Features, since 2019, 14 million of the 185.5 million certified were collected. Our rapporteur, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, has said that exemplary punishment is needed in cases of infringements of activity, publicity of infringements by law, rather than referral back to the Governor of AIA, and at some point we should assess the effectiveness of the measure of equalisation of excise duty on heating oil and diesel, which has been done to combat smuggling and has led to the heating allowance, which is reduced every year. Now look what I remembered. I remembered that Mr. Besyropoulos and Mr. Stavrou - probably you too, Mr. Georganta - on 15 October 2018 had called for a military opposition - because you are talking about responsibility and emphasizing populism - doubling the heating allowance and another 60 million at the same time reintroduction of extended subsidised criteria to 2014. You never did. From there on, don't talk about responsibility, populism and seriousness in this Chamber. Let's go to Article 23. Of course, Mr. Besiropoulos is missing. It is an article that speaks of protection, pay and rewards to those who give information about smuggling or employees who have contributed to the dismantling of the smuggling. Improving the device very well and you do well to predict it. But have you, Mr. Besiropoulos, or the commander of the ADI, investigated what is going on in the region of East Macedonia and Thrace by handling bottling alcohol from Bulgaria or food from Turkey from 2018 until today? Have you evaluated the action of the customs service and the service of the State General Chemistry which controls the undertakings producing and handling alcoholics? Because we are listening to the inspectors of the ILO who find controls deficits and by magic are suddenly accused. While there are appeals to prosecutors and the ILO confirms the findings, the findings of the ILO's Internal Affairs Directorate are ignored. As I know, Minister Vesyropoulos, you are inexcusable in these matters, I would like to ask you, on the basis of this provision, to see how they function and what the effectiveness of all the services is. Article 38, registration fees. You haven't told us what you're going to do with traffic charges, 1,1 billion in the next twenty-nine days. Along with the remaining 3.5 billion will pay the companies that will open up if they open on 21 December and the workers on parole until 21 December. Are you going to transfer them? Don't tell us we can't. Mr. Brutsis a week ago, a week ago, 440 million, was to pay to the FBI for 31 March. Unless Mr. Brutsis has more sensitivity than you and moves them. You 1,1 billion traffic charges to the citizens who are at home. In Article 40, you need to clarify whether five instead of seven years of the tax office will go, so that it can be transferred. It's a good layout. We have already been prevented by the Netherlands in an attempt to attract, especially after Brexit, several professionals. We shall now proceed to the ELTA amendment. We, ladies and gentlemen, in PASOK, have allergies to all those who are trying to alter the core and real dimension of the founding law of the SAAP. You can understand that we have a particular sensitivity when political officials who have been pushing for many years in the same direction as us in this direction that the AACC is inconsistent and should not be minded. Mr Theodorikos tells us every day about changes in the ASP and the new recruitment system, including the staff of public limited companies, namely ELTA. But today the Minister for Digital Governance comes and brings his own recruitment system. It's been turning us back for years. Exemption from PIS. I don't understand why it's an exception to PHS. The exception to the acts of the Ministerial Council is for the recruitments due to COVID, which are urgent because of the health situation. I do not understand why this is the case for ELTA recruitments, with the sole possibility of objecting to the legality of the procedure. Already the Panhellenic Federation of Post Office Associations has issued a statement and complains to you because no consultation has taken place and of course you also open the transfer of personnel from businesses to the public sector. Watch it, because you will find it in front of you very soon with similar businesses. Derogation from the Public Procurement Act, in accordance with the ELTA Procurement Regulation, while next week comes the bill that changes the framework of public procurement as a whole. This model will be applied? Just so we know what the bill says. The Ministry of Development's amendment for the valuation of products after the test fiasco. Apart from determining the profit to sellers, there should be a corresponding arrangement for producers - processors who have already borne the cost of production. Finally, our rapporteur, Vassilis Kegeroglou, has said so, and we have tabled two amendments. In the first, we call for an extension of the obligation to publish public declarations, notices and summary documents in the regional and local press. It is something that we think is right in this difficult situation and you should bring it soon, and I think it should be for two years and consider whether electronics will be integrated, which also play the same serious and reliable role of information. The second is to reduce the VAT rate in the focus and the accommodation, which we think is the great 'patient' of the economic consequences of the coronary, and all these professionals must, in practice, see the government, not only tell them what it will do, but to facilitate and relieve, because the next year is unfortunately very difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr. Catherine. The Parliamentary Representative from the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliou Villardos is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u195	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will not go into the ELTAs. Our rapporteur has already referred to the right thing. I think they should be privatised, but if the season is appropriate or not, that's what you need to think about. It is a very difficult time to expect that in a short time ELTAs will be able to become sustainable again. Now, starting with the smuggling of fuels, the issue has been highlighted by the troika since the beginning of the memoranda. In one of the first reports of the IMF dated 17-10-2010, at the time that promised reforms, as the Pissaridis report now referred to the intensification of controls on fuel smuggling, with revenues of at least EUR 190 million. That's what the IMF said then. In 2011 the Association of Petroleum Trading Companies appreciated it at 400 to 500 million million a year, as we will deposit in the Minutes. Since then, the troika has insisted on constant reports of the suppression of the fuel and tobacco smuggling, as in 2013 and 2014, with two reports, which we will present their first page in the Minutes. Not seven years after the latest evaluation of the program, supposedly, rescue of Greece, but in the essence of the French and German banks, according to Obama's memoirs, on 2 May 2017 states: “The authorities will implement the strategy against smugglers for products subject to excise duty, according to their timetable. They shall report progress on a quarterly basis.’ It is unnecessary to say that nothing has been achieved since then. Really, what were the investigations and complaints made by Mr. Sourla, former Vice-President of Parliament, Secretary-General of Daphne and Human Rights from 2012 to 2014? He was an honest and worthy man. The 'was' in the sense that we remember him roaming around committees with files and filing evidence, for example, of which we will submit reports in the Minutes. Firstly, EUR 30 billion lost from the smuggling of fuel over the past 20 years. 30 billion! Secondly, 1 billion euros tax evasion from fuel smuggling annually, where he said: 'I heard some time from friends with love telling me 'do not interfere, there are ditches''. Thirdly, EUR 12 billion a year from the smuggling of fuel and offshore. Fourthly, on the smuggling of fuels in the military, he said: "The protagonists of the circuit are benefactors, sponsors of charities and manufacturers of institutions which have social acceptance". Fifthly, as far as cigarettes are concerned, they valued their smuggling at 800,000,000 euros in 2013 and 20% of legal trade. All of this will be submitted to the Minutes. When the government is now selling out airports and ports or independent services such as the AMP, has it understood how smuggling they will be moved? Does he not know what is going on with 'COSCO' in Italy, as we have mentioned in detail in the past? Returning to the troika with its new name, that of enhanced European Union supervision, the seventh assessment, and on page thirty-seven it says that a law on smuggling would be passed by October 2020 - it says it beforehand - while in the eighth evaluation it was changed, announcing the law on late November. That is why the Government of Parliament is flooding with bills, which are, in fact, foreign orders. However, if he thinks he's going to solve the problems of the country with bills, he's out of place and time. As for cigarette smuggling, we have to note that we once had a blooming tobacco industry and today illegal laboratories, while when the government pursues traditional cigarette distilleries, which are poorly taxed, alcohol trafficking rises. Really, what is the annual estimate of the smuggling of the government? Can he answer us, further to mention the government revenues foregone and the target it sets for 2021 with the bill? Otherwise, his vote will make no sense, although we will support it. As regards, now, in the Pissaridis study, to which we referred earlier, it is not a development plan for the Greek economy, such as its title, but a voyage for the Greek economy, since it does not have a table with projections of size, but proposes what the international organizations for macroeconomic sizes are proposing, despite the general indications that the reforms proposed are made. We are constantly listening to the word'reforms'. However, they are neither new proposals nor realistic, nor reasonable, and they provide only a good justification for the financial failure of the memorials, of course, to blame the victims, the Greeks and not their victims. However, if we had not seen the date of its publication, we would have thought that it was written in 2010 to justify the memorandum. Generally it proposes cuts and privatizations for growth, with a little more emphasis on exports from tourism than other studies in the past - it is a right step - without being obvious how it will be achieved, as it does not analyse the international environment and the markets to which it aims. Most importantly: the report that Mr Simitis recently supported, having obviously forgotten his role in the disastrous course of our country, has no serious reference to Greece's financial problems, which make it impossible to relaunch its economy. It proposes, in addition to the already known Community packages, financing by investing pension contributions on the stock exchange, while awaiting a reduction in European Union funds towards the end of the decade. Mr Pissaridis, however, said in 2010 that cuts and reductions in costs, the memoranda, that is, it is not the right way to increase exports or tourism and to develop more generally, in order to propose, as a solution for Greece, investment by the European Union and especially by Germany, as we will testify in the Minutes to document what we are saying. But later, he advocated the policy of the memorials, claiming that the PSI was the only solution instead of the disaster, bankruptcy, as well as we will testify in the Minutes. We wonder whether Mr Pissaridis and his "soft" are emancipated by the economic theory or political purposes. In particular, as far as financing is concerned, even today, six major companies received most of the bank's loans. By name, ELPE, MOTOR OIL, "TITAN", "MYTILINEOS", "LAMDA DEVELOPMENTS", which has not yet given the 300,000 000 of the advance, despite the fact that it was financed, and the OPAP, the Czech OPAP now. Why, really, are they deprived of other businesses, from small businesses, when these large ones have other opportunities? Where are they going to use them? In Greece or abroad? However, as a Greek Solution, we believe in the change of our economic and tourism model, while because our public debt has now ceased to be sustainable, as well as the red private, we consider the immediate ‘flood’ to be a prerequisite, namely the postponement of payments, until Greece returns to sustainable growth, of course, in the interest-paying debts it pays every year. 2020 was 23 billion and so much will be about 2021. No one really knows where we're gonna find them. There is no other way, especially because of the consequences of the pandemic on society. In other words, we must stop bleeding and invest this money in our country, since without funding Greece will not succeed and will be completely destroyed. At the same time, there must be a reduction in red private debt, at least in relation to taxes, in the State where it is not recorded in its assets anyway. Greece is, however, a rich country with significant energy and mineral wealth, with an incredible natural beauty, with skilled citizens - but when the right framework is provided, which is seen by the Greeks when they go abroad - and also with cultural monuments alone, so it can certainly succeed, it is enough for a government to launch a proper macroeconomic planning with vision and love for its homeland. In conclusion, we will once again emphasise that the Greek Solution is a central, liberal and patriotic party, which believes in the national state and not in uncontrolled globalisation, which floods with illegal immigrants, with Islam terrorists and cheap goods in the West, reducing its citizens' living standards and quality of life. In no case is it extreme neoliberal and ethnicist, as is certainly the New Democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr. Villardo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u198	I will give the floor for a minute to the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u199	I recognise that the Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution is a very diligent colleague and many times he speaks, I monitor him to see, above all, the information he reports and exploits. Mr Colleague, I appreciate you and that is how I speak in the House. But many times, dear fellow Member, in your speech you mention as a post that the government of Costas Simitis and Costas Simitis was a politician, a Prime Minister who not only benefited but damaged the country. Mr President, it is absolutely wrong - politically wrong - that conclusion. I would invite the colleague next time he will, at least in front of me, to be able to substantiate what is exactly what he says about a person who put the country in the Eurozone, who helped as much as you can imagine - I was State Secretary for Foreign Affairs and I have complete knowledge of what I say - the accession of Cyprus to the European Union and then, with the course of Cyprus, the Eurozone, the man with whose guidance the Ministry of Public Order operated exemplarily and was arrested '17 November'. Uk at the end of the changes he made to the Greek economy and society. This man has been a prime minister for eight and a half years. I would therefore ask my colleague next time when I am at least in front of him in his report to be documented, so that I can answer him on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u200	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u201	Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u202	I'm gonna need less time, Mr. President. First of all, this is the first time I have been talking about Mr Simitis and I am not often talking about. I am referring, of course, very often to PASOK. I have often documented how, how and when he destroyed the country, documented every time. I promise Mr Loverdos next time that I shall refer in detail to Mr Simitis in particular. I'm saying this is the first time I've been talking about, not many times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u203	Something you were about to testify, Mr. Villardo, did you testify? Good. We are going to Mr Mario Katsis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u204	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like in advance, because we are talking about two bills - because the ELTA amendment is a whole bill - to inform you and to ask you to show your tolerance, because I will need to refer to and exceed the time laid down in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u205	In a reasonable context, though. Don't get out of here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u206	Yes, I will try in a reasonable context, Mr President. But it's two bills. Firstly, I would like to begin my speech, starting from commenting on the amendments and those tabled by the government and those tabled by the opposition. With regard to the part of the amendment tabled by the Minister for Development for the valuation of COVID tests: You know, while you have left the average Greek family and poor people to have a burdensome family budget for your own idea of speculating privately during the period of pandemic where unemployment has risen, people have been shut down at home and shops have closed down, now I have the pain to catch you and to legislate, challengingly and provocatively ignoring the proposals of our counter-population and officer on this issue. So the pain has taken you into consideration now in December, after eight months. Mr. Levant, I appreciate you because you're asking for proposals. The SYRIZA's proposals for this amendment are as follows: first, a price reduction from the Central Health Council, from the ERCY. You haven't done it. Revaluate how much the tests cost. Second, prescribe electronics from doctors with specific clinical and epidemiological criteria. Third sentence, here's what you have to do. Indemnify these tests from the EEAS with zero participation by the citizens. Fourth proposal, this cost of electronic prescribing by doctors for the people's family on the basis of epidemiological criteria and characteristics should be excluded from the claw back, from health costs. And fifth proposal, compulsory declaration to the EGE of all the PCR or rapid diagnostic tests carried out in private laboratories and, of course, all the positive samples. This is the proposal that has been tabled - and for pandemic reasons, the House and the Plenary Assembly are failing - by the relevant Head of SYRIZA, Andreas Blonde who bombs you every day with proposals, like SYRIZA. Here's SYRIZA's proposals. So don’t cut yourself off, and don’t move our finger in the next few days that you have brought honor, know it, to be clean. That was the first part of this amendment. Part two. Obviously, it costs 40 euros and 30 euros to price it. Here we say it's free to social groups, free to participate. You don't do that. Second amendment. To come to the amendment tabled by KINAL concerning the extension of the declarations for two years for the weekly and daily regional press. Maintaining the declarations that have been extended by law of our own government between 2015 and 2020 and ending in the next few days is a necessary prerequisite for the continuation of operations of the regional press, and that is why we call on the government and the opposition, which tabled the amendment, not to link the maintenance of declarations to COVID. In other words, this should not be done for a year, as Mr Petsas says in the replies to parliamentary scrutiny, nor for two years, as you say because of a pandemic. This must be permanent.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u207	Are you voting for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u208	Yes, of course, not for two years. This question I have asked with - I do not remember now - over thirty, forty Members to Mr Georgiadis and Mr Petsa since 24 July 2020. So we urge you to listen to the Regional Day and Weekly Press Unions and make it permanent, because sustainability for the regional press especially for us regional MPs who understand how important it is for these newspapers to exist is a question of democracy. It's not a question of COVID. There must be the voice of the local press, the control of power, the OTAs, and the second degree, the heretics, all of us. So it's compulsory. You gave so many millions to the media. Do not connect the extension of publications to the COVID neither you nor the colleagues of the Change Movement. I put the question in the Minutes of 24 July in which it has been answered that the regulation will come and we have reached the beginning of December and it has not been here yet. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Katsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As regards the amendment by Mr Varoufakis and Mr Mera25, I said earlier that we were initially positive, but to avoid falling into court, there must be an institutional framework. How is this institutional framework capable of ensuring that this amendment is content? It will be if we incorporate the European Directive of 2018 on audiovisual media services. The 2018 Directive is the AVMSD. This de facto imposes taxation on recreational electronic audiovisual media platforms such as NETFLIX, such as Video Amazon, etc. At all costs, this must be done. I do not understand why the government has not incorporated this directive so long and what its political position is. And we know that this platform - the world is locked up at home and has an escape escape from NETFLIX, those who can pay - has over-profit this time with the subscriptions and the 10,90 euros that a house pays monthly so that they can at least keep a level of entertainment from the moment they're locked and don't come out. Therefore, the directive should be incorporated. It is necessary to do so also in such an institutional context to discuss such legislative initiatives, but first of all we are positive. I do not know if I have any other amendment. If I forget something, I'll take the floor later. The part of the bill I think our rapporteur, Mr Alexiadis, analysed it very well. I will now come to the issue of the bill within the bill we are discussing, which is the bill on the restructuring of the ELTAs. I will make a comment on how to legislate. You cannot continue to underestimate Parliament. That's all. There's not that thing you're doing, a second bill inside another bill implanted. A restructuring of the ELTAs is currently taking place without having consulted a whole bill, without discussing with institutions and committees, fast track and in secret. I can understand the part of necessity because it expires in the 2020 financial year, which is the year of COVID, so the expenditure on State aid, the financial aid part, is excluded. I can understand that. But it does not come alone, to see that all the wings will agree to strengthen the ELTAs and come after the plan and make concrete proposals on the project, but it comes "pack". It comes "pack" with an extremist neoliberal design that makes ELTAs a private shop. But why don't you do that and in the middle of a bill in plenary a second bill? Evidently because the government is afraid, but also the opposition, that the committees would see the attitude of the trade unions to the government's majority. A large part of the IAEA voted against the plan and the PASK, which is about KINAL politically, voted in favour - or in any case we are not talking about the leaks - of the management's plan for volunteerity without any knowledge of the bill. So you did not want that to be done and to see the disagreement in the committees, so that we can all see exactly what is happening and how exactly the workers fall into such a plan. I shall come to the suggestions, Mr Levaner, but because Mr Bourras did not give me the floor earlier, to answer Mr Vésyropoulos a little. Mr Besiropoulos, I told you earlier - and you disproved me - that it is - it says - for all the returnee and there was no exception for competitors. "So, we don't understand..." you said to me, "why is the reproach and the hint?" Isn't that what you said? Unless I'm making a mistake. I have already tweeted it and made it public, but I will now submit it, that on 8 April 2020 the CEO of "ELTA Courier" - a letter to your Head of State, Minister of Finance Mr Stavoura - calls for the inclusion in the aid measures of the "ELTA Courier" because of the pandemic, so that the ELTAs are not in a difficult position with regard to competitors. And while thecompetitors were able to enter, the Postals were left out. They're still waiting for an answer from your own administration. So I answer you to see that you have been disproved. I would have said that earlier, but Mr. Bouras didn't let me. I'm filing it in the Minutes and I'm waiting for the answers. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Katsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What are you doing with the bill? You do four things. You support ELTA in liquidity through the state budget with 240m euros to cover the openings and not to sever the cannon by exploiting the European relaxation and limitation of DGCOM on State aid. Secondly, you are fully restructured with a hard neoliberal model of shrinking services, industrial relations, and, in practice, abolishing collective negotiations with the logic of breasts and carrots. Thirdly, you are turning the company from a public body into a private shop, fully controlled by the politically appointed administration, which, by way of derogation from all the texts, will do whatever it wants to do in recruitment, contracts, transfers. It is determinative that this will all end up in an orgy of old-fashioned and party clientele. Fourth axis is this: you are preparing the privatisation of ELTAs, it is a declared objective, the Minister said yesterday to the committee, after this plan, within two years a private person will enter. Therefore, the privatisation of ELTAs, where the company is now net of debt and the money of Greek taxpayers will be delivered to private interests. This is the plan you are presenting to us today within four axes. In Articles 1 to 3 of the amendment, you are legislating a working framework in the ELTAs for new recruits of indefinite and fixed time. In essence, the rules in force in the private sector, except for the collective agreements and the general regulation of the ELTAs, are now in place by inviting, in essence, out-of-true APA procedures, other than public control, with the power to administer the Agency in terms, procedures and selection. As the Deputy Minister, Mr Georgiodakis, has previously disappeared, I would like to say that he expressly says that if the administration and the AACC do not respond within 10 days, it is considered as an assent. If they take the tables and do not respond within 10 days, they are considered as consent to the validation of the tables. Are you serious? What do you think from your experience? Will the AACC respond in ten days? By go, bypass is S.A.P.D., it's obviously bypass. The administration is hiring, without the need for an act of a ministerial council that will come out in an FEK, suffocating, within ten days, which will not be able to do so. And on the substance you have done it not only in ELTAs, you have done it in PPC, and ELGA, and in detention stores. It's a government policy. We're not surprised by what we see. You are the ones, the anti-State, the ones who defend the least state. New workers will be flexible, except for the prerogatives of the collective agreement. So, in practice, you are also abolishing the collective negotiations for Mr Brutsi's term of office. In Article 2, while a limit was provided for in the number of external partners, you are now managing senior management by a majority with external staff, downgrading and easing the competent executives of the company - unless you think there are no competent executives in the company - who have skills and experience. If you don't think there are enough executives to say it. As far as the fixed time is concerned, the IPOs, the contractors, the administration will take anyone who wants, those who want, without any control, and at any time they will be fired. What's that? Working guerrilla. It's a galera. In fact, the conversion of historical ELTAs, which are almost identical with the establishment of the Greek state, in a private shop, is completed with Article 8, where the company falls outside the legal framework of transparency laid down by Law 4412/2016. In other words, all contracts, procurement, works and services of ELTAs will be by way of derogation from any existing legislation, without limits, without transparency rules, without control by the Court of Auditors. Nothing, nothing. Nothing at all! You are all euphemistically calling this 'Strengthening corporate governance'. Well, on terms you're awesome! You should say better 'party governance'. Do you know what this looks like? It reminds me, Minister, as if you were giving a suit box to a pyroman who is in a field with dried grass from the summer and with heat and wait for fire or not. That's what you remind me of, that's what we're talking about. Evidently, it is a presumption that rhysphetological recruitments, direct assignments to individuals, the orgy of old-familyism, largely responsible for the symptoms you are coming, supposedly, today to heal. After you completely detested it in the conscience of the Greek people, privatisation will come as a mature fruit. My old sieve art. Model PPC, we talked about it earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Katsi, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u210	Mr President, give me three more minutes. He's got twelve articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u211	When you climbed the Step, you knew how much the articles were.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u212	Mr President, I understand your need to limit the procedure, but that should have been discussed in four committees. Are we going to take a four-minute topic?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u213	I tell you to think about your colleagues who are waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u214	I apologize in advance. I will show tolerance in a similar situation in the future. This is happening and relates to the model of the development of the ELTA organization and the "ELTA Courier" from now on. We have no doubt that it is a tested failure recipe. Let's go down to Articles 4 to 7. You are attempting to redistribute and reduce the staff of the ELTA Group and the courier transport group in the direction of a smaller and more flexible organisation. Legislate the framework for targeted programs of voluntary exit of two thousand people within two years, in accordance with the position of the Minister. You are legislating a fixed framework for the transfer of personnel either voluntaryly or compulsoryly among the companies in the group, for the reallocation of excess personnel with all power to the CEO, which will determine which positions are empty, who will go where, who will move to other public and general public bodies. It is clear in the order that this will be done compulsory, that is, punishable. You know, the volunteer at her core has a nuclear differentiation in this plan, no blackmail, no punishment, no penalty clause. This is where crucial questions arise. We're asking? Who will be involved in volunteering and what package will they be invited to agree on? If someone does not participate, will you move him to the public office without maintaining the personal difference? That's what the bill says and I ask rhetoric. If the administration determines how many and what are the vacant organic positions and abolishes the empty organic positions, then how will the employee go to a new vacant organic position, once it is dismantled, be transferred within the group to another position? So blackmail will be expelled to go to another government body. That's what this is about. This violates the principles of volunteering. No assent is provided. These are critical questions, and they must be answered now, and not set out by an OSH, because I fear that you create ambiguity in the provisions to overlap with the workers of a bogeyman to assist in a plan that will punish them. You have also placed trade unionists, namely, the administration not directly, to sign up for a pig in the sack, agreeing on a board day before the amendment was tabled, namely, last Monday, on a plan that had not been presented to the whole. We believe that the two thousand people are an extremely ambitious plan to actually touch. First of all, you need to see who has established a pension entitlement and who can leave, and obviously, I imagine that they will not be included by volunteers, otherwise it will be scandalous. Secondly, today the five and a half thousand workers and their wage costs are estimated at 67%. After the restructuring - I asked you yesterday the question, that is where Mr Georgios referred and I wanted to ask him the second time Mr Boras cut me off - how much do you expect to reduce this labour cost?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u215	Now I'll cut you off. You've got 50% plus.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u216	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u217	What to do, there's a rule. Should we not apply him?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u218	I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u219	You're always making new business for me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u220	You can answer us and get us a study. Article 10 is the defeat of your neoliberal concept that all regulates the invisible hand of the market and you come and strengthen the ELTAs. I remind you - and I reminded you yesterday - that we launched the universal service compensation for the years 2013 to 2018 and on this path you are continuing and taking advantage of the regime that there is an exception to state aid. And now I come to the branch of stores and call on fellow Members who support the government majority to be vibrant, because they do not come after, after they support this plan and ask questions to the Minister, "closes the store in my own area and devastate the villages". To know, it is a red line not to close any ELTA stores and have a presence throughout the network in the country with low services, low prices and so on. A private person, if he went in and got the majority, would not provide this service. This is why he is a universal service provider of ELTAs, so that he can take the pension to the grandparent in the village at the most remote point, so that he can take the PPC account, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u221	And that's what you're gonna do, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u222	I'm done. And because Mr Lebanese has asked for proposals for modernisation, Mr Lebanese, you know that - I imagine, if you do not know it, you do not know it - that, for our own days, the administration of the ELTA had entered the liberalised energy market, which you were bound to take place and which laid down that the energy market should be liberalised. Can you tell me why the ELTAs have now come out of the energy market? Why did you take it off? Are you afraid to hit the competitors? Is it because it has a very strong network of stores throughout the country and would it really hit private competitors? Can the ELTAs gain from exploiting the energy market, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u223	Hang up, Mr. Katsy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u224	They can. Can they use, turn on the package and the small package, yes or no? They can. Can shops automate, like distribution centres, yes or no? Of course! And we have started procedures, you with European funds in 2013 on the basis of the Samara government had frozen these funds. They weren't anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u225	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u226	And that's why you got the ELTAs in this situation and now you're showing up as saviors. I want to make it clear that a bill is coming into another bill - that for smuggling - for which we are positive.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u227	You said that at the beginning!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u228	In the ELTA bill we are completely, categorically negative, regardless of whether you are supporting them with state money, but the plan is an absolute neoliberal one. I explained why, I think. So take over your responsibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, I ask for the amendment that you have given us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u231	Wait a minute, Mr. Katsy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u232	I would like to speak on the amendment that you have given us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u233	Yes, Mr. Katsis has the right to speak, who is a parliamentary representative. You, Mr Alexiadis, are rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u234	I'm a rapporteur. You have given us an amendment. I'm asking why. Will you give him to me, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u235	For the amendment I gave you, tell Mr Katsis to say what you want, Mr Alexiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u236	Mr. Katsis was in Stepma when you shared her to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u237	Yes, and that doesn't mean now that you're going to talk, get in touch, and I'm going to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u238	We have agreed, Mr President, to speak instead of Mr Katsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u239	In your parliamentary office, Mr Alexiadis. It is now up to the Minister to develop the amendment. Here, Mr. Pierracakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u240	Mr President, I would very quickly like to comment on some of the issues that Mr Katsis has raised in his speech. First of all, I would like to say that, as far as the AACC issue is concerned, there is no bypass, that is to say Article 13, which deals with the way in which many public sector enterprises are hiring. It is precisely this process that exists at the moment and in the equation. And as far as the directors and directors are concerned, already the directors-general at ELTA can be outside the company and already on the basis of the existing collective labour agreement - which currently exists its renegotiation - and at the level of directors by decision of the board there is some flexibility in decisions. The key word is the word'may'. No one wants to bypass - obviously - the company's headquarters. There is simply one concern - which already exists on the substance - so that people can get outside the company and new human resources. That's the process. As far as the stores are concerned, I had the opportunity to develop it yesterday. There is anguish that ELTAs, using new functional models, can continue to be present throughout the territory, and we have it. In the past few years, they closed shops because the company was compressing. This has happened for the days of all governments. Our guarantee is that we can continue to have a new operating model and at a cost that is managed by the Greek taxpayer, that the ELTAs are present where they are today, which is more than a thousand hundred points on the ground.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u241	Thank you very much, Minister. And go back to the speakers. We'll start from the Peloponnese, from Christina Alexopoulou from New Democracy. Here, my colleague, you have seven minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u242	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, the draft law we are debating today introduces important areas into the national economy-critical front of dealing with certain smuggling phenomena, which in total deprive the state of valuable funds every year, which are ultimately removed from the pocket of the weakest social strata. For the particular provisions of the bill and their necessity, they have already spoken and will continue to speak with other majority colleagues. You will allow me to focus in particular on Article 40, which, if we succeed in implementing it properly, will not only achieve significant budget reinforcement, but will stimulate the ever-increasing demographic problem facing our country for some forty years. I am referring specifically to the brave motives provided by Article 40 for attracting to Greece tax residents abroad, including - as you know - hundreds of thousands of our Greek compatriots who have been hosted after 2010, mainly because of the consequences of the economic crisis. This massive exit of educated young people into foreign countries, the Brain Drain, as summarised in two foreign words, continues even in our day to create a negative impact on the economy. It is not only the deficit in tax revenue and in social security contributions that arises, but also the growing gap in the Greek labour market. A similar problem, of course, arises also because of the migration of not a few of our fellow citizens who have had other skills, which they have now put into the service of foreign countries, where they live and work. The absence of some five hundred thousand Greeks, as the Prime Minister recently said, creates an unpaid gap in the domestic labour market, significantly affects the budget and further increases the biggest national problem, the demographic problem. Faithful to its values and commitments, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis implements in practice one of its most important election commitments, strengthens the links between society and the economy of all the Greeks, providing with this bill and a series of other institutional interventions that have already been implemented, strong incentives for the repatriation of our fellow citizens who have been hosted in the past decade. With Article 40 we give the opportunity to the foreigners, to the Greeks that the hard times of the economic crisis have left Greece, even until 2015, to return to the country either as employees, as freelance professionals or even as entrepreneurs. At the same time, we are creating additional conditions for attracting foreign nationals who will choose our country for their tax and employment, as other Member States - Member States of the European Union, including Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Ireland and the Netherlands have already done. It is extremely good that, for such categories of workers, not only because of the pan-European classifications created by the departure of Great Britain from the European Union, but also because distance work is now a global social phenomenon, which will largely continue after the pandemic has been eliminated. Of course, it will take an effort to bring about significant results from all these policies. We will need, Ministers, to avoid the intention of bureaucracy, which is extremely repulsive to those who live in advanced societies, from which we want to attract human resources. Especially for our renowned compatriots, the state must minimise the evidence required. We owe them that. For example, I am aware of my business and of my involvement in the administration of the former TSMEDEE, that many Greeks have not been registered in the IRS of residents abroad. At the same time, however, they have carried out the process of registering their insurers so that they do not have to pay double contributions. I think it goes without saying that for all these fellow citizens we will be able as a state to simplify the procedure by making the tax authority contact the competent insurer rather than sending them back the necessary documents. At a later stage, it would be useful to introduce incentives to attract investments, even small-scale, of all these hundreds of thousands of Greeks. Why not bring their economies home rather than place them in the countries that are living today? We could attract billions of euros from abroad, taking a few of the many, as the Prime Minister quite rightly says, with tax rebates, such as those already envisaged, but also other incentives, such as the increased subsidy rate for projects that have been approved or approved in case of the introduction of funds from abroad, with a low threshold of even EUR 100,000. I have tabled detailed proposals in my recent introduction to the Special Committee of the Regions of the Parliament and I will come back, Minister, as well as our expectations of our fellow citizens from the newly-born technology enterprises, the well-known startups, which I have been following with very great personal interest for years. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law, together with the other important sectors it introduces, offers a strong incentive to attract tax residents abroad, Greeks and foreigners to our country for the next few years. Article 40, in particular, offers Greece the opportunity to increase qualitatively and quantitatively its human capital, highlighting state revenues and contributing to the battle against the demographic problem. Let us all try together, over parties and colours, to support it not just by voting for it, but also by putting our proposals for immediate or future improvements to its provisions. The government undertakes to implement it, without unnecessary bureaucracy and in the most effective way, so that we have significant and measurable results. It goes without saying that the cooperation of all the political forces will help in this direction. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, with today's vote we are opening the door to repatriation to hundreds of thousands of Greeks. We end the uncertainty regime and draw a return passport to those who have left, giving them the opportunity to try and develop their careers, returning home with citizens of other advanced countries, who will make us the honor of becoming our fellow citizens. Let us all support this important initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mrs Alexopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u244	Mr President, may I ask the Minister one question?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u245	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u246	I would like to ask, Mr President, why earlier, when I was in Stepma, when I came down, a 'gift' came to me. There it is! This is a book, it's not a gift! Okay, I've got Christmas to read!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u247	I'll let you know he'll be here...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u248	This is an amendment supposedly, but it is a whole bill. I have to ask - and my colleague, Mr Alexiades, will be speaking on behalf of the SYRIZA rapporteur - the following question: bring a third bill in plenary. Are you going to bring in a fourth bill? Answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u249	Mr. Katsi, I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u250	Mr President, I ask. I'm sorry. Everything's come today!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u251	I have to say that there will be another amendment and I will give the floor to Mr Alexiadis because I refused it beforehand. Don't hold on to me, tell him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u252	You're going to give him the floor, but this is where we're talking about altering the legislature. I don't know what that says in here. It's a whole book. Is there going to be another one? And four? I need to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u253	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u254	Here you go, Mr. Besyropoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u255	The amendment tabled, with a general number of 620 and a special number 105, is linked to the implementation of measures and actions that need to be directly activated, since there are deadlines which are under pressure in this direction. I'll support the articles and talk about them in my place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u256	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u257	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u258	Mr. Colleague, don't you want a revival of the hundred twenty-dollar arrangement? Should the benefits of leasers not be irresponsible? Look at the articles first.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u259	Mr. Besiropoulos, in your speech. Mr. Alexiadis, you weren't here. Another amendment will come and I will give you the floor after the two amendments together.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u261	Here you go, Mr. Katsi, for a minute, because Mrs. Papanatsiou is waiting for her seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u262	Minister, are you bombing us with bills and asking for the change? I have just said that our relevant sectionist, who is rapporteur in the bill, will be placed in the first place. Now we're in third. We'll be there in a quarter, too? I'm asking. Why don't you answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u263	I've answered your question before.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u264	Mrs. Papanaceu, can you hear us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u265	I can hear you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u266	You have seven minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr President. During the budget debate I said that New Democracy is introducing a new model of governance based on the distortion of reality and enriched with sufficient authoritarianism. In this context, the government has systematically devalued Parliament's procedures. The democratic deficit across the whole range of New Democracy policies goes beyond how it perceives the discussions of its legislative initiatives. You tabled a bill of interest with which we had nothing but technical disagreements. In the House, however, it arrived with sixteen more articles and even on the same day we discussed the budget for a very difficult year. If this isn't a downgrade of the process, then I don't know what it is. This method also means you don't have a plan, a plan for what you want to do. Legislation aimed at combating smuggling must evolve and be reviewed. This should also be the case for the purposes of monitoring developments, but also for the purposes of reviewing practices, which are either more efficient and enriched or are no longer efficient and are revised. In the bill the regulations on smuggling are in a positive direction. At the same time, the WHO Protocol, which was already being processed by the services of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health, is being ratified. We must also note the completion of the Ministry of Finance's trilogy and the highly questionable and supposedly pro-developmental arrangements for the transfer of the tax home. You bring a provision which exempts 50% of the income tax and the special income solidarity contribution obtained in Greece from employed or self-employed business activity. Incentives, Minister, to the labour market. Colleagues, however, this brings you intolerability. Moreover, who will return to a damaged and dismantled labour market? Rather, the provision relates to high-paid large business groups. Similarly, the unemployed and the workers in our country will be taxed under the general provisions and with cumulated debts from the pandemic. I would also like to mention a second point concerning what has so far been done in the fight against smuggling. On fuels to remind us that we moved as a government of SYRIZA directly into the adoption of secondary legislation, pending from 2012. We have provided an obligation for liquid fuel operators to send complete data on their financial transactions, purchases and sales from their commercial programme in the Ministry of Finance database. A ministerial decision was adopted on the centre of signalling and laying down specifications and procedures for the communication of fuels by means of transport. We have improved the decision to introduce input-output systems in tax warehouses. We've issued a CFD to install systems in all the free fuel and chemicals facilities. We have provided for the creation of a register for all underground fuel tanks and tanks. We have issued two GPS systems and input-outs to the fuel-supply instruments. The CRL was issued for the installation of a system of molecular traceability of liquid fuels in low-tax fuels - heating oil and shipping oil - and the procedure for obtaining a contractor normally goes ahead. In tobacco for the first time, the Government of SYRIZA introduced a legislative framework to combat tobacco smuggling with Law 4410/2016, which for the first time provided for the creation of a national register for the whole tobacco supply chain, the provision of new permits, the taking of strict due diligence measures for enterprises active in the sector, as well as the creation of the coordinating operational centre to combat the trafficking of excise goods, that is, fuels, tobacco and alcoholics. At the same time, SYRIZA had shown from the outset his willingness to fight smuggling of all forms and to strengthen the customs service. In this context, all procedures for the very important procurement of the first self-propelled X-ray scanner in our country with increased operational capabilities have been completed. This action was particularly necessary because of our country's morphology. Therefore, within August 2017, the receipt of four additional X-ray machinery which were placed at four hub customs offices in the country, Piraeus, Thessaloniki, Gardens, Cakavia was completed, while the process of obtaining other twelve machines, eight self-propelled and 12 stations for goods and two for freight trains was under way, with a view to the more complete fight against the smuggling of the import of products. I think - it is evident from the previous ones - that, by consistently serving the direction of combating smuggling, we have moved from 2015 to 2019 into policies that have been partitioned, but also to the continuation of incomplete legislation. It is also evident that this framework is largely continuing its parts of L.4410/2016. I would like some clarification from the Minister, because Article 1 states that the government is not an interministerial committee, as the majority rapporteur said, that it is possible to oversee the TEC. So, is that possible? I'm asking this because it's a change in the article's initiative. Also, Article 4 on alcoholic beverages may propose that the name of the consignor and the consignee should be entered in each movement up to the retail points. In Article 7, reference is made to the ADP services. There are also several other companies that exercise further control, such as the Ministry of Development with the Department of Meteorology, with the KEDCs of the Ministry of the Environment. What about this? Article 14 shall be defined as a unique competent service for the development and management of information input and GPS software. The excuse given is that as far as the concentration of multidimensional competence is concerned. As we have said, however, there are several services within and outside the Ministry of Finance, which are controlled by the issue of smuggling. Do you think this will not result in any information-monitoring malfunctions?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u268	Finish, Mrs. Papanatsiou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u269	I shall conclude, Mr President. Regarding Article 31 and the procedure for replacing administrative utilities and performers of wills, if we consider the arrangement to be trying to solve problems with the appointment of members outside the register, with which criteria will be chosen for the replacements, as it is not at all discreet and transparent, especially if we are talking about institutions with large assets. Also, for Article 36 on financial payments, I would like to make a point. It is not defined as the amount of the guarantee letters, nor is the legislative authority given to the Minister of Finance or to the co-legislative ministers to issue a GSM specialising in the provision. Take this very seriously into account, as the public has bad experience in such matters. In conclusion, I would like to point out that this is a very substantial plan. Your practice shows that you are not in the mood to discuss with the opposition. The Minister told us we had a month to look at the bill. We saw the bill. It has, however, changed even at the same points, and sixteen articles have been added without consultation and eighty-page amendments are coming, fifteen pages, and now we are listening to one more volume! - for a third amendment and a fourth one will come. It seems that, apart from'seeing and doing', the incoherent provisions do not favour serious debate and prove what we have been telling you for a long time. You're walking to the unknown with a boat of hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mrs. Papanatsiu. Mr Vassiliou has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, allow me, on the occasion of the presence here, to congratulate the head of the Treasury on the effectiveness of the four-day advance measure. The messages we receive every day in our regions talk about the immediate payment of money that is absolutely essential to the liquidity needs of most sectors of the economy. I am going to go to the draft law under discussion, which comes to address a matter that is agitating the Greek economy over time, the smuggling and trafficking of products subject to excise duty, depriving public funds of revenue and harming trade and healthy competition between lawmakers, whether they be large Greek tobacco industries, or small and medium-sized enterprises, agencies and retailers. The negative effects of smuggling, i.e., have a vertical impact on the whole industry and often lead to job losses. In addition, particularly when it comes to products such as alcohol, smuggling poses risks to public health and threatens consumers' lives. The provisions of the draft law provide for better coordination of prosecution authorities so that incidents can be seen quickly and effectively. The use of new technological monitoring and information systems is envisaged, and the penalties for trafficking-related offences are being tightened up. We see, in other words, an integrated framework for dealing with the phenomenon. I would also like to stress the timescale that the government brings to Parliament this bill. The consequences of the pandemic and the necessary restrictive measures to deal with the second wave try every day a large part of the Greek society that operates in critical sectors of the economy. From the power stations to the fish shops and, of course, the focus of the smuggling ban will alleviate thousands of Greek families. Let's not be fooled, there's no Greek household who's not looking at the future with uncertainty at the moment. On the occasion of your presence here today, Minister, I would like to offer you some additional proposals to the already brave aid programme for Greek society that is being implemented. I think it is fair and legitimate to extend the regulation on the reduction of student rentals for parents in affected enterprises. Beyond the workers, they are also the owners of business and many free traders. I therefore ask you to consider their inclusion in the relevant regulation. Moreover, on the basis of route data in the Regional Unit Pellas, the owners and taxi drivers industry declares a fall of 80% or more work. It is imperative to take measures to strengthen the industry, either through compensation for services not carried out due to restrictive measures such as those of students for example, or through the taking of part of their obligations. Taxi companies are and must be characterized as wounds. And because I know that your desire to leave as much reform work as possible does not erase, I will remind you of the need to simplify the procedure for the finalisation of pre-sales agreements. This is an issue that tortures thousands of citizens, especially in northern Greece. I've asked a question about this. In the same spirit, a framework for regulation of the cases of property disputes between owners and public authorities is pending, including land occupied. It should also be possible to regulate this in respect of the property of the National Defence Fund in order to make use of assets currently under an uncertain regime and, of course, to regulate fines from the 2014 MDGs, a failure of the previous government which burdens thousands of unjust fined enterprises. I have tabled a question and we have discussed it in detail, Minister. On this point, Mr President, I should like to refer to two amendments. This is the amendment with a general number of 598 and a special 101, which introduces provisions regulating the ever-growing problem of personnel facing the Greek Post Offices. I would like to mention to you the case of the branch in Arnissa in Pella where the sole official is called upon to meet the needs of a population of over three and a half thousands of inhabitants scattered in a multitude of villages and settlements. The amount of work is large, as farmers are served, land workers in misery, and there are several cases of pension payments. As a result, the proper functioning of the branch today depends exclusively on the high professionalism and the sense of responsibility of the sole employee, who can neither use his license in many cases. I therefore hope that these provisions will enable the ELTA administration to deal with the staff problems encountered in many areas of the country. In addition, the establishment and functioning of the information system for issuing health certificates will facilitate the business activities of farmers and traders and will be unnecessarily simplified applicable procedures. The amendment, under a general number 600 and a special 102, gives the possibility of imposing a maximum price on goods necessary to deal with the pandemic. The introduction of a plaque to the price of tests, but also of pharmaceutical products, is necessary and required under the conditions we are experiencing. To close, Mr President, I believe that the draft law under discussion solves the problems of the State with a direct impact on the everyday lives of businesses and citizens. We must set up a common front against smuggling and I therefore call on the House to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr Vassiliou, and for keeping time, as always you are a gentleman. We continue with New Democracy and go to Mr. Athanasios Kavada from beautiful Lefkada, the island that you go without a ship. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today reflects the government's will to deal effectively with the enormous problem of smuggling. Smuggling has many negative effects that are limited not only to the loss of public revenue, it affects economic activity and healthy businesses, but also the quality of our democracy. I will mention some cases of fuel smuggling that show the scale of the problem and its consequences. Heat oil can be disposed of as a diesel, with the result that revenues are lost from the difference in excise duty. Petroleum intended for shipping can also be unlawfully disposed of as diesel. One is aware of the loss of revenue, considering that shipping oil is not subject to excise duty and VAT. The phenomenon of virtual oil exports has also been observed, which is ultimately illegally available in the internal market. In particular, in the fuel sector, smuggling is responsible for the loss of an amount estimated from EUR 1.3 billion to EUR 2 billion. The installation of an input-output system at the liquid-fuel stations was completed in 2014, but this important infrastructure remained virtually untapped and is the basis on which checks and cross-checks can be supported. This is because there was no regulatory framework for the application of the input-output system to tax warehouses, in terms of how, in time, the type, the frequency of shipment and the mapping of system data to be sent to the Secretariat-General of Information Systems, in order to cross-check the data with the system already in place. In other words, there was no operational information system that would make them effective checks on the data recorded. That, Mr President, is now a past, since the competition for the development and establishment of this system is under way. They are therefore all aware of the importance of the provisions of this draft law which enable the auditing mechanisms to process and cross-check these elements. The State's control mechanisms will now be able to do so by means of the provision of a new electronic register for the inventory of fuel storage and handling tanks. Reinforcement in this direction is in progress and the adoption of strict sanctions for the installation of a GPS system in tankers and in waterways, as well as the installation of a similar input-output system in LPG stations while using a molecular tracking system. The bill, however, comes to deal with a second very important problem: smuggling in tobacco products. How important this problem is is from evidence, studies showing that three billion illegal cigarettes were consumed in Greece in 2018. The illegal cigarette market in Greece covers about 25% of the total market. The loss of revenue is estimated at more than EUR 700 million. The strengthening and equipping of customs offices with X-ray infrastructure will be a positive step. The Ministry of Finance has announced that in 2021 there will be seventeen such machines at the customs office since the end of 2019. The problem, however, needs to be addressed in its entirety and in its roots, which is why it is very positive that the provision in which two databases are interconnected, such as the Single Central Office of Tobacco Supply Chain and the Information System of the Register of Tobacco Tracing Products, is to check a pack of cigarettes at all stages of its route to the supply chain and process. In the case of the smuggling of alcoholic beverages, there are also safeguards in place with the creation of an electronic register of those engaged in the industry as producers, traders, traffickers and exporters in order to enable the identification and cross-checking of data to be carried out directly and effectively. In this way there will be continuous monitoring of the supply chain of ready-to-eat alcoholic beverages. Finally, particular reference is required in Article 40 of the bill, an article with a developmental target, which provides for an income tax exemption and a special solidarity contribution of 50% of the income of those carrying their tax residences to Greece. This measure does not only concern foreigners, it aims to create conditions of return and repatriation for thousands of Greeks who have left from the years of the crisis. Hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens, mostly young people, with a high level of education and professional qualifications among themselves and too many doctors left the country to look for a better future. Now we can offer them better conditions, attract them back home, their families, the productive potential. Ladies and gentlemen, at times we have heard greetings and announcements without content. We are all judged, however, by the actions. The installation of the input-output system at the stations was acted by the government of Antonis Samaras. Today's bill is an act and an effective move to combat smuggling and is a positive intervention by the Mitsotakis Government, the New Democracy Government. Smuggling and the loss of public revenue are treated by acts, because words are easy. Former Minister Nikoloudis, in charge of combating corruption in the SYRIZA government, had told the parliament that he had information on tax evasion that would secure 2,5 billion euros in the first year of the SYRIZA government, while former Deputy Minister of Finance of the Government SYRIZA Mr Mardas had mentioned 2 billion euros of money from smuggling the government at the time. Of course none of these estimates were verified and never received by the public of these amounts and finally on 16 April 2018 came Mr Tsakalotos, three years later, speaking to the House to state that these were the over-estimating estimates. So it's time for actions and not for words. A clear act by all parties would be to vote in favour of this bill that effectively tackles the scourge of smuggling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. Kavada. I shall now give the floor to Mr Vassilis Digalakis, Secretary of State for Education, responsible for higher education, for some provision he wishes to put in place. If you speak from the cabinet, Mr. Digalakis, please come to Stepma with the mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u275	I'm going to take the Step, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u276	Mr President, let us ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u277	As soon as the Minister has placed himself on the amendment, I will give you the floor. I promised. Aren't you talking about Mr. Vessiropoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u278	We also want to ask, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u279	No, Mr. Digalakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u280	Yes, of course. We're not talking about it. I thought it was Mr. Vésiropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u281	Well, I'm gonna get out of here last.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u282	Yes, Mr Alexiadis, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u283	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will talk about Article 16 of the amendment with a general number of 620 and a specific 105. Under Law 4009, but also under the earlier institutional framework, teachers of universities were given the opportunity to pursue a profession free of charge, following information from their university school and then to pursue a profession free of charge, in order to better comply with the concepts of tax administration. The justification for the free profession was to ensure that the results of the scientific knowledge of teachers to the wider society and the economy can be exploited and disseminated, while the regulation on the obligation to return a percentage of the activity in question was essentially a compensation. This was also decided by the Council of State, when the constitutionality of the rules was called into question, in the caselaw to state that the detention in question is not of a fiscal nature and that it is legitimately imposed on teachers, since the resources in question are collected and made available to meet the needs of universities in relation to educational, educational and research activities and to ensure better conditions within the universities for carrying out their scientific work and the same teachers. That was a reason. The second reason was that teachers practicing a university activity enjoy the benefit of increasing their private clients because of the increased authority given to them by their employment in HSY. In this respect, the Court of Justice has held that the concept of an economic activity is not contrary to the principle of equal treatment and that, in the absence of such an activity, the concept of an economic activity is contrary to the principle of equality, as set out in the explanatory memorandum. And that is true, as far as the debts that would be incurred from 2016 onwards, regarding the adoption of this law are concerned. But does it also apply to the debts of previous years, of the past? The Scientific Service of the Parliament in its report at that time had expressed serious reservations about the constitutionality of the regulation and, in particular, said that it did not seem to be consistent with the Constitution, the proposed arrangement in the place that it wanted to occupy teachers who until the entry into force of that law were practicing or practicing a free profession with a company rather than as an individual professional activity. In spite of the points made by the Scientific Office of Parliament, under Article 35 of Law 4559/2018, the obligation to pay debts of 7% on the incomes acquired by business activity - whether individually or through a company - was applicable for all past years from 1998 until now, and by allowing 20% to be terminated on the debts arising from business activities by means of a company, and this is to avoid the intense reactions that had been caused at that time. However, the legality was not guaranteed either by the possibility of winding up. On the contrary, the uncertainty and risk of annulment of the actions to determine a debt as unconstitutional by the competent courts in the event of an infringement has been strengthened. It is known that the imposition of obligations or other financial burdens cannot and must not have retroactive effect beyond the previous financial year in which it was imposed. And that is what the Constitution itself defines in paragraph 2 of Article 78. For this reason, the proposed regulation restores the legality and the principles of legal certainty and legitimate expectations, as the imposition of the obligation of 7% of business activity by means of a company starts from 2016, where this arrangement was first regulated. It goes without saying that the possibility of termination and the debts are determined as a whole from 2006 onwards. Finally, the proposed regulation provides for the discharge of the administrations of universities and PPE from any responsibility for non-collateralisation of debts in 1998, and this is necessary because they do not have any responsibility, since the adoption of the decision regulating the granting procedure - while the law had been passed in 2018 - was delayed by one year after the adoption of Law 4559 and when the information was provided to the universities, we had already reached 2020, so that these requirements had already been lifted at that time. In conclusion, I would like to say that by this arrangement we are now correcting all the imperfections and mistakes that existed in the regulations for the retention of 7% from the exercise of business activity by teachers at universities, so that after many years the institutions can finally proceed with these retentions, and these resources are particularly useful for the sustainability of the institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u285	The rapporteurs will have a minute. First, I give Mr Loverdos the floor for a minute and for the Minister to be able to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u286	It is the results of this legislation "on only one" that there is no possibility for the Scientific Studies Directorate to examine the legislation and to tell us just from the point of view of the Constitution and Union law what is in force and whether the proposed provisions have some contradiction. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] In any case, Mr Secretary, there are three issues. The first is Article 16 of the amendment, paragraph c, for teachers, lecturers, as regards the retroactiveness of their obligations. Twenty years? Am I wrong? I'm not mistaken. Twenty years. How can this provision of the Constitution, when Article 78(2) of the Constitution is infringed, concerning the retroactiveness of taxation? This has been legally regulated by the decades since 1974 and you can extend it by looking back at five years, if it is tax, and here comes a reward fee which is recorded after twenty years! How are you feeling okay with this? So one is that. Secondly, as I read Article 16 - so let us see whether what you said at the end is valid or not, that is, that you are going to resolve the issues that have arisen from its application - it seems that 7% of the course may be requested and those university professors or lecturers were on parole. Is such an interpretation possible? The way Article 16 is, it is! And then go after the people you're going to be hitting them with something that they have no obligation to do, to be involved with amendments, appeals to the courts. On the third point, first of all, let me say that the first regulation has been made by me as the Minister of Education. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou corrected the arrangements with the acceptance of an amendment, which took place following a persistent debate in Parliament in 2016. Minister was Mr. Friends at the time. Because these amounts are too large, that is, did the House understand that many times this is a great deal of money, why only twenty-four instalments? If this is a retroactive obligation of a very large amount, why not make it easier, but to trouble people? I want to respond to these three issues, and above all the first one, which puts all your regulations at risk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u287	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. I will give the floor now to Mr Alexiadis. Mr. Alexiadis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to ask the representative of the Ministry of Education, because I imagine he will leave later. I would ask you, Madam President, to give us the floor later to put the amendments in detail. We shall now proceed to the question to the representative of the Ministry of Education. One is that, because it was lightning deposit, no matter how much capacity we have 17 articles and 116 pages we cannot study them in a quarter. As far as the provision of Article 16 is concerned, there is obviously no cost, and your information is clearly well known, who owes, amounts and so forth. Why is there no cost? I don't understand why. Is there any calculation weakness? Don't you want to figure it out? I'm asking for us to know what we're talking about. Are we talking about 1,000 euros? Are we talking about 1 million euros? The second is, Minister, that you are a representative of the Ministry of Education, which is training and training, and that of the administrations of the universities. What message today sends out a provision that says that the administrations of the HEIs and the special accounts are exempted from all kinds of responsibility from the non-recovery of the debts of teachers and lecturers? What message do we send to university administrations in these cases? Please. - Answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister wants to answer now. You have the floor, Mr. Digalakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u290	I will answer the questions of both colleagues. I'll start with Mr. Loverdo. You said, Mr. Loverdo, it's coming last minute. Let me say here that I referred to my speech in the views of the Scientific Office of the Parliament, which said that it is unconstitutional to go retrospectively before 2016 to impose business activities through a company since it was first established in 2016. So we do not impose any retrospectiveness. She already existed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u291	Twenty years back.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u292	There was already for twenty years back.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u293	The deletion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u294	The limitations are generally applicable to tax legislation. I would also like to point out that, according to the Council of State, it is not taxation, but compensation. But here I say that what we are doing is correcting the unconstitutionality of the arrangement, asking for money before 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u295	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u296	As regards the free profession through individual activity, not through an undertaking, this existed before 2016 and under Law 4009, as well as under previous laws. So those who have not done so obviously have to do so. I should now like to come to the issue of the doses you have referred to. You said it was a few sixteen doses. The sixteen instalments relate only to debts from 2016 onwards through business activity. In cases where there are debts previous to 2016 via individual activity, there are other arrangements for the payment of instalments that are much more and therefore there is no subject. What we are doing is to formulate the collection of an unconstitutional amount from 2016 onwards with a number of twenty-four and the rest of the payments are normally made. So there won't be a matter either. To come to Mr Alexiadis's questions now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u297	No, no. The inhibitions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u298	What inhibitions?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u299	Teachers on parole. For example, one is a congressman for four years. It's suspended. But he has a law firm or a medical office. From them...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u300	This is not a full-time job. This concerns full-time teachers. In other words, the business activity concerns full-time teachers. A prosecuting professor is obviously not full-time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u301	That's because you don't say...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u302	It doesn't have to be said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u303	This statement by you is of a historical nature. I mean, the performer's gonna overthrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u304	Mr. Alexiadis, you mentioned that there is no cost. I should like to say here that, in accordance with the arrangements you have brought, the ADP provides concrete information to the universities' special accounts in order to retain the percentage. It was such a flaw in the original arrangements that you had brought, which, in the incomes that were presented by ADI, included, for example, teaching from the Greek Open University, which should obviously not be subject to 7%. Revenues from investment activities were included, which should also not be within 7%. Therefore, these amounts could not be determined. And that is why the universities have not gone ahead with their collection. While in the way we solve the problem, universities will be able to collect the revenue they have to collect in order to support them financially. Finally, your second question about the - allegedly - what lessons we give to the administrations of universities by exempting them from liability, but which you have been bringing in a year's delay in bringing the required ministerial decision, so that the information comes to the universities after 2020, when it had been filed in 1998. So do you want the universities' administrations to give them responsibility, which you as government at the time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u305	Thank you very much, Minister. I will give the floor now to the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mrs Arabaji, to refer to the two amendments. Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with Article 12 of the 598/101 amendment which we are proposing today, on the establishment and operation of the digital platform for the export of products of veterinary interest, a small legislative step in this House is essentially a step towards one of the most powerful sectors in the Greek economy. For which branch? For exporters in this country and in particular exporters of live animals, animal products and by-products in third countries. How many numerically pertaining to the situation? It is about six hundred businesses, four hundred and fifty in particular, if anyone sees exports from 1 January to the ninth of 2020. Businesses that exported dynamic products of the Greek economy, such as catches, honey, dairy products on target markets, markets large as those of the United States of America, such as Australia, Japan, India, Hong Kong. What has happened to this day, ladies and gentlemen? Simply so that these exports can be made, the businessman or the businessman's representatives should be able to come in a natural presence to submit a form of letter to the local administrations of the rural economy and, likewise, to employees in a personal presence by means of a written procedure to carry out the specific export certificate, which - I am passing away - is not just one. It has a direct dependency on our transnational relations with third countries. And we are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about more than a hundred and twenty veterinary certificates or other passports so that our products can travel to third countries. So you understand that this was a bureaucratic process, a burden of paper on the one hand, an administrative burden on the undersettled many times in the rural economy, and a difficulty in exporting. So what did we do? As Ministry of Rural Development and Food, in cooperation, of course, with the Ministry of Digital Governance, we have set as a goal to facilitate exports the digitisation, simplification of these procedures and the implementation of exports essentially by one click. So we have designed internally - and this is worth highlighting - a record time with the existing forces of the services of the veterinary and electronic governance of our Ministry, which I should also like from here to thank for the promptness, speed and efficiency with which they produced this project. This digital platform is already hosted in the digital area of gov.gr, called ‘EasyAgroExpo’. On the platform, therefore, and with the current legalisation of this process, the candidate exporters will only be able to do these exports digitally from their mobile phones, from their home computer, as we now speak of teleworking in the middle of a pandemic, and, in any case, from their business computer. With taxisnet codes they enter the system and make their request with a very simplified system, friendly to everyone. Of course, the relevant DAC official sees these certificates and gives this approval. At the same time, businesses have another benefit in their hands, apart from being very much facilitated. It is that they can see what is true in each market - a goal in order to open up new markets and make another programming in their businesses. So you realise that with this digital platform we are achieving another step in the wider objective of a simple, effective state in the service of citizens, of strengthening, of course, Greece in the world, of facilitating entrepreneurship, of facilitating exports, of simplifying procedures, of stepping up controls to tackle Greekism, because this platform will be directly interconnected with the Community's 'TRACES' system, where it will actually also see imports. Of course, we are talking about monitoring the effectiveness of the public administration, because we will be able to see how much time each employee is exporting. And, of course, a pandemic is a reinforcement of the state's digital battle against the consequences of COVID 19. I mean that this action - it puts export trade and Greece into the world's lead, as other countries very developed digitals do not have corresponding digital platforms. Nor can we fail to say that it is also a democratization of exports, with a terminology of political science. Because you realise that if large-scale and organised enterprises are able to appeal to the public administration with the necessary staff to make these exports, smaller companies do not have that possibility. So with this digital tool we give them the opportunity to actually do their job. I mean that we have already opened twenty-three of the thirty countries in which we have such transnational agreements for top products, whose exports in 2019 exceeded EUR 175 million. I close on the basis of what the Prime Minister said at the Pan-Hellenic Exporters Association conference, where he effectively reiterated the national targets for exporting to the country's GDP from 38% to 48% by 2023. Take into account that 25% of our country's exports are the exports of agri-food products. In view of the fact that, in the first nine months of 2020, agri-food products, together with oil, were the only two-digit export increase, you are aware of the usefulness of this more digitised application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u307	Thank you, too, Mrs. Undersecretary. Mr. Katsis has a question to ask you. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u308	Madam Secretary, I would like to ask you the following question. I cannot understand the need to set up a new platform, namely what exactly the most is given by the existing electronic system for the export of animals and animal products, 'TRACES'. What is the difference, the innovation, that you are forced to build a new platform instead of building a subsector on the already existing platform. I am passing away, 'TRACES' is a platform that defines the terms and conditions on the basis of criteria that are strict and defined by the European Union. As you say in Article 3 that the details will be determined by a CSM, which means that this may be undetermined or may bypass these rules, two are the questions. Firstly, what makes you go to a new platform instead of building something or enriching the existing 'TRACES' which includes what you want? Secondly, why are extra criteria laid down by CSM, since they are very strict in European legislation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u309	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u310	I shall reply to my colleague. First of all, it is 'the TRACES system'. Mr President, the 'TRACES' system is intra-Community and concerns imports of these products and not exports. So we're talking about exports. Therefore, with the interconnection of the 'TRACES', which is a Community obligation on imports, and of which we did not have to build, we did so because we wanted to take the lead and make it easier - it is a political initiative, a political initiative and a belief - to facilitate exports and, in general, entrepreneurship - we do digital exports of animal products, as I mentioned to you in order to facilitate exports to third countries. The planting protocols have been following since 2021. As far as regulation is concerned, Mr. Colleague, to whom you refer, the CSR will actually come as an implementing law to specify the products that are ready in the course of time. I have already told you that of the thirty countries with which we have transnational relations with such export activities, it is our twenty-three and principal products, such as catches, meat, honey, all kinds of dairy products, that are already ready. Therefore, the Ministerial Decision describes the specific codes and the minimum codes that have been left with a next decision and the annex will also be entered. Is that understandable? Is there any questions left?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u311	Can I have the floor, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u312	Mr Colleague, we cannot open a debate. You can understand that this cannot be done in plenary. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mrs. Undersecretary. I shall now give the floor to the Minister for Finance to place it on the two amendments. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u313	We shall then be placed in the amendments with my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u314	Sorry, it was my fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u315	I wanted to testify. They are literally legislative improvements. However, a legislative improvement is essential. The incentives we give to attracting foreigners to Greece, especially young children who left abroad in previous years, one of them was to provide incentives for not being a resident of Greece in the past seven years from the eight years prior to the transfer of the tax residence to Greece. To make it more attractive, seven becomes five and eight becomes six. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, too. I shall give the floor to Mr Georgiadis to present his amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u317	Thank you very much, Madam President. With the amendment, with the general number 600 and special 102, I ask this House for the legislative power to be able to impose pragmatism on goods and services of health interest, if and if necessary. We have already announced our decision to proceed with appreciation of the rapid test and the coronary PCR tests. We will have an institutional debate this week with the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, so that, in addition to the valuation of the test itself, there will also be a pessimism for the services that are necessary for carrying out these tests, so that the citizen knows exactly what is going to pay at the end and that he will not be the victim of a, unfortunately, great indifference that has been observed in this area lately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Katsy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u319	Minister, I do not know if you have heard my position earlier as a parliamentary representative regarding your amendment. I would therefore like to inform you of my position here in Parliament, because the relevant sectoral authority has also issued a communication on your amendment. We find it absolutely hypocritical that after eight months of pandemic erupted and while the World Health Organisation recommends as a necessary measure to limit the spread of the virus to a systematic test throughout the population, you are now coming and while so long you have said that the invisible hand of the market defines everything and does not need anything and you have to take consideration of these tests. So long the people's family and people's households have burdened their family budgets both for rapid test and for PCR test and you didn't burn a pin. Now, then, you come, after a holiday, to impose this arrangement. We in this regulation will vote for'representations' because we have tabled a package of proposals, which includes the following: firstly, that the tests should be reviewed by the Central Board of Health - it is not about you, but it is about the Minister of Health, through us, to transfer - an electronic prescription with epidemiological and clinical criteria. To be paid and compensated by the EEAH, with zero participation in the citizens, the test. Excludes this expenditure from the clawback and compulsory declaration to the EGE of all diagnostic tests - and PCR test and rapid test - carried out in private laboratories and, of course, all positive samples. This is our proposal, our strategy and should have been done many months now and not 'and five'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Mr Colleague, and I warn you that you have no more time. You have exceeded your entire time in order to be able to speak in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u321	They bring amendments and explain them, Madam President. How else will we be placed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u322	In the end, Mr. Comrade. When your dentistry is given, you can be placed. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u323	Look, I do not want to place myself so much in the essence of this amendment, which I think covers some of the decisions you have made. It covers with legality, gives legality to certain political options. I have heard you say that in the public speech. I would also like to point out that as far as the whole of the opposition test is concerned, because I have been following the Chamber since March, since the first lockdown - it emphasises the need for tests to be carried out in general everywhere. You missed your nursing homes, where you lift your hands up. You say: is it possible in Florina - three days ago - after the experience of March - in a place where visits are forbidden, exits are forbidden and the only one who can carry the virus is the worker, not to perform a test every day and have such problems? I am sorry to say this, but when you present the statistics on which you are right to say that we have fewer fatalities and so on, when you talk about cases, have you associated, to have comparable sizes to allow comparison, how many tests are carried out in other countries, to make the ratio after that number? How many tests do the Belgians take each day and what policies have they developed in this area? You are coming back and too late, Mr Georgiadis. I underline that!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u324	Thank you very much. I shall now give Mr Villardo the floor, since he also wants to ask the Minister, and the Minister will then reply to his colleagues. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor for two minutes, which will be removed from your time when you speak from the Step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u325	I've already spoken, so you can't deprive me of anything! Minister, you obviously had to do what you did in relation to these tests. The market is really out of hand. However, our question is whether or not this will be followed in general by other unpunished products. It's not right. You need to find a way to better control the market so that there are no such phenomena. Calculation is something that I know about communist regimes. It's not a liberal measure. So, you have to sort of handle it differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u326	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u327	I'll start with my last colleague, Mr. Villard. I fully agree with you. Calculation is not a liberal measure at all. I would never come as Minister of Development to the House to give consideration to the exceptional circumstances we are experiencing as a result of global disaster. In emergencies, you have to use emergency measures. Otherwise - obviously - in a well-functioning and normal function you can't put on valuation even though, as we speak ideologically, the medicine - and the test is a kind of medicine - it's so otherwise it's always priced, because, as you know, the medicine has a certain price from the EOF in both free markets and liberal states. So the truth here is somewhere in the middle. I now come to answer Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Villardos and, in part, Mr. Katsi, and then I'll go down to the specials. Firstly, I have said to this House - and I say this again today - more than thirty times in topical questions, in discussions, etc., that I consider the measure of valuation to be an exceptional, extreme measure, that I believe in the market and will only use it where I see that the market has not worked. I may have said that 50 times in this Chamber. No, dear Mr. Loverdos, we're not even late. When the price conversation began, the first conversation was about antiseptics and the second one about masks. Today all price comparisons in antiseptics and masks show that the Greek market operates very satisfactorily and we have prices very well below the European average. So we have achieved in this market sector and sufficient and good prices. Therefore, no valuation was necessary. What's the difference in the tests? The difference in tests is that, unfortunately, because of the very great need, the market did not work in the same way and prices did not follow the same downward trend in other European countries. In antiseptics we're down, in masks we're down there, and so there's no need to reckon. So there I see that the market, unfortunately, did not work in the way it worked in other European countries - it is not here, because it is about the health sector and you have passed and I have passed through the Ministry of Health and we know what the pathogens are, do not open it now - we are coming and intervening. I said from the outset that if I see that it will be necessary, I will not hesitate to do so, although I am ideologically opposed. But now I'm going to what you've touched, Mr. Loverdo. And I want us all to understand what we are doing here today and what we are doing. If our guide is the superficiality of tests and more tests are carried out, the valuation leads to fewer tests, as you will have already seen from dozens of doctors interviews today in the morning bulletins of Greek television. All the doctors' institutional representatives said that if we insist on valuation they would do less tests. The reason we wanted to avoid taking the discretion is because we wanted more tests to be carried out, what you said before. The example of the nursing home and the other things you have said is not an amendment to this amendment. The amendment relates to the market. This is the responsibility of EIA and other things. They're not mine. I'll make it clear. It is precisely because of the statements - not only declarations on programmes, Madam President, but also press releases and official announcements - of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, i.e. their supreme institution, I told you earlier, ladies and gentlemen, that I will have cooperation with the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association not only in valuing this test against what we have already put and announced its price - that is, the EUR 10 for rapid test and the EUR 40 for the PCR - but also for the services of escorts to carry out an examination, which will not ultimately be excessively burdening the citizen. What do I mean by that? What have we seen? Many people say, "For your test, I charge what the state will say, namely 10 euros, but to do the test you need to do another one, two, three, four things, that I have out of valuation, so I charge them as much as I want." We're not going to do this or mock the citizens. We will contact the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association so that the valuation of services is fair, so that no one can ruth up on the citizens who want to run a test. On the other hand - to come to what Mr Villard said - to ensure that we do not go to a reality which will ultimately reduce the number of tests carried out. Because if the tests were to be reduced, that would be a problem. In the course of this week, therefore, following a debate with the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, my ministerial decision will be adopted after this legislative delegation for both. So everyone will know in any case, if he does his home, for example, if he does it in the lab, if he does it with Pol, if he does it properly, what he will pay, so that the doctors say that the valuation is below the price they pay and so do not do tests because they do not come out and then charge the citizen the test he enters the valuation and all the other five times over. So we'll have clean bills, but also tests. We're interested in a test. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u329	May I have the floor, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u330	Mr Colleague, you don't have the floor anymore. I will give the floor to the MP of SYRIZA, Mr Eleftheriadou for seven minutes. Please keep the time, because you don't hear the warning bell. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u331	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the government has chosen once again to reduce the authority of parliamentarianism by violating democratic processes of dialogue and fertile confrontation has not surprised us. It happens in almost all the bills brought by the New Democracy to a vote. ...in the bill and that it's an opportunity to send a strong message against smuggling to our country. And while our rapporteur, Mr Alexiades, has pointed out to you since the first debate in committee and in all his positions, the need to be informed in time of amendments, what are you doing? You are literally bringing in at the last minute, after the last debate of the committee responsible, to discuss the future privatisation of the ELTAs. In fact, the Minister responsible is announcing us proudly... (continuation of association, no sign of the Member) a strategic investor. Today, while we are in the middle of the speakers, you also bring a third bill into the bill, an amendment of sixteen pages, and until the end of the speech we do not know what else to expect. Should the Final State Legislation provide for the New Democracy and for additional scientific co-workers and for ordinary MPs, in addition to the hundreds of posters, to have them outside the Chamber and work? So in this respect, I have a few words to say about the ELTA bill. It is about the future of five thousand and over five thousand permanent workers and thousands of two hundred fifty contractors, and of course it affects the lives of all of us. The importance of the subject and the pan-Hellenic interest are also shown by the tens... (continuation of association) questions tabled by Vice-Population MPs in the last year, expressing the concern of the people around Greece for the correct and complete functioning of the ELTAs. I refer to the example: Questions have been made about the branches of Prince Thassos, about Palairo Aetolakarnania, about Kessariani, about Phthiotida, about Asprovalta, about Koroni, about Evros, about Xanthi, about Chania, about Hymittos, etc. While you know the extent of the subject, you choose to play under the ELTA game table, for the benefit of obviously private courier companies. Because that is what the New Democracy tactics follow to date, but also the way you brought the amendment - a bill one day before the debate in plenary. Truly, how will the ELTAs compensate for the blow that their credibility in the market and in the consumer is today, when the Minister himself states that they are in nothing but one? Certainly not by reducing their staff and redundancies. Certainly not with the supposedly voluntary exit of the two thousand people, which only voluntary exit is not. Because, otherwise, the project of alleged transformation and modernisation of ELTAs is very unclear, while it leaves open the possibility of degrading the quality of the services provided, obviously on the basis of lowering costs, which only for the benefit of private competition can function. And if you succeed in getting the ELTAs back to profitability after staff and cost cuts, they will then enter a private strategic investor company. How this will be an increase in the company's property - as the Minister says - rather than a loss of another asset for the Greek State, and indeed for a company with a clear social character, the New Democracy Government is aware of that. The non-negotiable position of the SYRIZA is one and both our rapporteur and our parliamentary representative have been placed on it. The future of ELTAs is neither their credit nor their tradition to individuals. The ELTAs must remain under public control and this must be clear and explicit in any support plan brought by the government. And red line is each village, even the most distant one, to have access to ELTA services at affordable prices. The Government must commit today that no shops or branches will be closed and that, in any case, the acquired workers' rights will be guaranteed. We will not accept what you are doing with the covered bill that you have brought in a pandemic and while Members cannot be placed. We will not accept a PPC model, as the relevant Minister said yesterday in committee. We will not accept any rhetorical criteria for new recruitment, by way of derogation from the collective labour agreements and the general ELTA regulation, by effectively out-of-procedure recruitment. We won't accept violations of labour rights with two-speed and gradual workers... (continuation of association, no hearer) de facto... (continuation of association, no agreement was reached by the Member) As far as the smuggling bill is concerned, unfortunately, I don't have time. (continuation of association, the Member of the European Parliament)...opening of the debate in the committee responsible. There is, first of all, no disagreement, as our rapporteur has pointed out. We recognise that the procedures for combating smuggling must be reviewed and enriched according to the context. It must be mutually accepted by everyone that the financial staff of the Mitsotakis Government once again pursue a policy on the solid bases set by SYRIZA during his administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u332	Thank you too, my colleague. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Lebanese, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the moments are critical. The second wave of the pandemic is in full progress and, unfortunately, we mourn every day tens of our fellow citizens. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate those who have lost their knowledge, but also to appeal for an absolute commitment to compliance with the measures. Let me ask everyone who is responsible and self-sufficient in what we say and what we are doing both for the lives of our fellow citizens and the need for universal vaccination. The hunting of popular support and vote in the blurred waters of populism and conspiracy on the subject of vaccine is simply criminal from wherever it comes. The rise we have before us in the next quarter of winter will be difficult, hard-trapped. A third wave threatens the whole of Europe. In this context, we must all be very careful. It is maximum irresponsible and the disseminating of news about double lists and inaccuracies in the number of cases. At a time when social confidence in the state's health policy is being exhausted and partly because of society's fatigue, the declaration of war in science will have disastrous consequences. Those who do so show disrespect in the fight against the virus and do so consciously. They turn every government decision and degrade it not with reasonable arguments, but by transferring it to a fantastic universe, worthy of discernment and evaluation of government decisions, claiming for themselves the role of the illusionist and mentor They come back to representatives of virus negligents, conspiracy conspiracies, who see closed and dark corridors. But they ignore that, as Yuval Harri wrote, human history is not simple and society also has judgment and logic. So I ask those who question the government's policy in pandemic: do you consider it reasonable for the government to give the scientists who advise it on how to deal with this terrible pandemic? What for? With what motive? They state, specifically today, the scientists in the committee who are the following. Mr. Vatopoulos says: “They wrote about double books by EGEY, as if someone would steal the tax. Such a matter does not exist." He adds: "If I had suspected myself as a scientist, but also all the members of the committee that any kind of misuse of EGE's data is taking place, i.e. any cooking, I would have resigned first and would have denounced everything." If they do not give those who use this logic of cooking and this policy concrete answers, let them be silent, because they are simply criminal against public health. By coming to the bill, I would like to congratulate Mr Alexiadis for recognising the correctness of today's bill and for tabling his fertile remarks. Indeed, it is an exception to SYRIZA's colleagues who, instead of the right political speech, choose polarization and tension. One of his colleagues yesterday, in the other bill we were discussing in committee, on spatial planning, called for the postponement of all the bills in the House except those concerning COVID. At the same time, I would like to make it clear to him that we in the New Democracy do not move his finger, nor of course are we iron either the same or the work he has produced in the Ministry of Finance. The New Democracy recognises the efforts made in the right direction on SYRIZA and works with them. After all, in our own philosophy of governance, the state has continued and each government has to receive and continue with the positive ones it finds. The levelling-out of everything is a feature of SYRIZA rather than of the New Democracy. I was amazed to hear Mr Kegeroglu, but also Mr Katrin, attacking one of the most successful ministers of the Government of New Democracy, Mr Pierracakis. However, the style of their criticism urges me to believe that it reflects rather internal problems of their prolongation, as evidenced by the terminology they have used for modernists. But today we have heard the extreme of populism, that is to say, that the article providing for the payment of compensation for the universal service to the ELTA should be voted on and not on all the other articles which will allow the company to be restructured and rescheduled. That is, giving the Greek people money to a sinking ship without saving the ship. So what Mr Zachariadis has written in a recent article today, Mr Zachariadis, a good colleague and member of the SYRIZA, in connection with the creation - in fact today, in the reordering of the political scene - of two political movements in society. Of course, Mr Zachariadis made a big mistake as who he is. At least he's caught the messages of the times, that there's a reset. In the progressive area of rationalism and logic, of involvement with the real problems of society, of changing the economic model, of strengthening the middle class and of deepening its relationship with Europe, all the political liberal Greek people belong there. The New Democracy of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is leading and covers the entire range of progressive citizens from the Right and from the Centre to the truly modernist Left. On the contrary, in the field of populism, irresponsible bidding and irresponsibleness, the lack of proposals and the logic of endless detention belonged to SYRIZA, representatives of the extreme right and the ethnic right, who were also involved in the government of Mr. Tsipras before and several conspirators who are often identified. The Greek people know which choice leads to the new era and what in the painful past. Here we are and we're all judged every day. Of course, we will be judged in the elections whenever they come at the end of the four-year period. In the context of the continuation of the Government's reform work, I would also like to congratulate the Minister, Mr Staikoras, but also the Deputy Minister, Mr Vesyropoulos - perhaps the Minister with the greatest presence here in this House, who supports and listens to all the questions and attacks and responds - despite the huge burden they have on the Ministry of Finance to deal with pandemic, they continue effectively to promote the reform work and legislative initiative of their Ministry, with a bill that brings a holistic solution to the major problem of the smuggling of fuels, tobacco products and alcohol. Our rapporteur, Mr Anastasiades, presented this in an excellent way, so I will not repeat his positive arguments and thoughts, because he expresses our full support. However, I would like to focus on Article 40, which is an article milestone, in the great effort that makes New Democracy to achieve Brain Gain, to return, in other words, to our home country, the tens of thousands of our compatriots who left the time of the crisis and live and work abroad. In this context, because he also linked them, I would like to make a comment on the amendment brought by Mera25. I find it interesting for a university debate, but the way the Chief of Mera25 has put it simply confirms his character and puts it to the fore. In relation to the amendment to the valuation, I would have a lot to say, but the Minister said so a little while ago, and I will not repeat it. In any case, I am pleased that the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman tells us that even though we were supposedly late, he agrees. We've heard the suggestions too...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u334	"Paris," I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u335	No, you agree with the valuation. We have also heard all the speakers and the Minister present. However, I would say that'residence' is rather the wrong option, because if you agree, you are at risk, if you do not even vote for this amendment, after all the philosophical amendments you have not voted on, to take you into the fine. So be careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u336	You did not understand what I said, Mr Levane.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u337	How did I not understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u338	You don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u339	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u340	We said free prescribing...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u341	Please, we're not having a conversation. Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u342	Here's the question of whether you're in favour or not. Let the Greek people hear you too! SYRIZA says he won't vote for the test valuation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u343	Mr. Lebanon, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u344	That's the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u345	We are not having a debate with the speaker, please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u346	I now come to the ELTA rescue plan. As the excellent colleagues have said, the Ministers, Mr Pierracakis and Mr Georgiodas, are a restructuring plan which ensures the social role of ELTAs as a universal postal service operator. It rationalizes wage costs, which currently accounts for 67% of total operating costs. There is a voluntary departure of workers, the terms of which have been agreed between ELTA and employees. The digital transformation of the company is being implemented, while by adopting a new policy of recruitment, the company acquires the flexibility needed to cope with increasing competition and to stand in the context of competition that is developing in our time. We are therefore following a standard model of modernisation, such as other countries in Europe, namely Denmark, Ireland and so on. The SYRIZA side again cries and the parliamentary representative is passionately rejecting our proposal. It tells us that it will not vote for this amendment and reject it. Well, that's understandable. I asked you before, at the beginning of the debate here, in Parliament, to give us your overall plan to rescue the ELTAs. You, instead of a comprehensive plan, have come and smiled something about the stores that the neoliberal government of New Democracy is supposed to close down. Even that, I find it extremely hypocritical. And it's good to talk to one of you about this matter and tell us, when you were in government, how and why did you close fifty ELTA stores and come today and ask for the change? But to see what the first time left was handed over to ELTAs, you received in 2014 a company that exceeded EUR 38 million accumulated profits, contrary to what you eventually delivered in 2019, which, if I'm not mistaken, can now also be told by the Minister - is for EUR 115 million. So, in a sense, the agency this four-year period - the four-year SYRIZA, that is, you are supposed to be cutting off for this company today - lost a value of EUR 150 million. The group in 2014 had a profit before tax of EUR 15 million and is now estimated that the losses will be EUR 30 million. The deficit per month, as the ministers responsible have said before, reach EUR 4.7 million. So you're proud of everything you've done in your four years, and that's why you're coming over and yelling. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You aggressed us on the choices of staff and labour costs. You spoke of a working banner, Middle Ages, about the known poems from the past. You said we follow a tested failure formula and bronze for PPC as a bad example. Today, however, if you are simply reading the Athenian press in an economic newspaper, the new president and CEO - for a year - announces that PPC will have annual operational profitability this year of EUR 900 million. So, what you're saying is that he's miserably failed has this reversal of the tragic data you and PPC handed over. So I ask you and I wish you could answer us - I do not think - that: if in a year and in the aftermath of this reorganization, what are you going to say? Who are you gonna apologize to? I shall close, Madam President - and thank you for the tolerance - by privatization. I remind you that you put the ELTAs in the Supreme Court, so we don't forget. The Government has decided to strengthen the ELTAs with an increase in equity. It is precisely because it respects the money of Greek taxpayers and because we want to get back the money they now give, this investment is done precisely on the criteria of a private investor. Therefore, our intention is to have a strategic investor for the ELTAs, when someone already has 10% today. Besides, there is already, as I told you - I think you know which investor has 10%. Therefore, the investor's entry not now, but when the project we are promoting is well implemented and the company regains its value, it will then come to an end. That's all I had to say. I don't want to get carried away anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u347	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u348	Madam President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u349	You can't, Mr. Katsy, you know that very well. You know it now, you've exhausted your time too much. I can't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u350	Madam President, I can explain that he has been personally mentioned and I would like to reply to him!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u351	The Minister, Mr Metarakis, has the floor to put an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u352	Didn't you hear? He's twisted all my seats!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u353	Now I gave the floor to the Minister. The Minister will answer. It's so personal, isn't it? I didn't understand that thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u354	But he's twisted all my seats! Is that possible? Please, wait a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u355	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u356	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have come to support Article 12 of the amendment with a general number of 621, and a specialist of 106. This is a legislative improvement of the existing provision of Article 16(4) of L.4375/2016. The current provision provides for the provision of space from the EBRD to address housing needs of the Ministry of Migration. With the proposed amendment, the Minister of Finance itself is also given the opportunity, as there are public properties that remain in central management. Madam President, allow me to express my regret at the shipwreck in Lesvos today and the loss of human lives, to congratulate the Port Authority, which saved thirty-two passengers on the fatal boat. It is incomprehensible to be allowed to try to cross the Aegean Sea inflatable boats that do not meet any safety requirements and are driven by people without permission and knowledge of the rules of the sea. Those who allow it beyond being invaded by the joint declaration of the European Union - Turkey - are, unfortunately, putting, in their knowledge - at great risk, human lives. It emerges from the statements of the rescuers that the Turkish nomadic who spotted them, after calling the passengers to Turkey's special emergency number, did not provide them with any help, did not rescue them, but urged them to cross the European Union's maritime borders irregularly. But also the NGOs that contribute to these routes must, by feeling their real role, immediately stop contributing, perhaps unwittingly, to the loss of people. The international community has to do with key and strict interventions to protect human lives, contributing substantially to the complete end of the irregular paths of poaching traffickers. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u357	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u358	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u359	Wait a minute, Mr. Colleague, because this is where hell is going. Mr. Katsi, I'll give you the floor for a minute. I would only ask you very strongly if it is on personal grounds, otherwise, we do not have a problem with the procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u360	Madam President, I really have no intention of creating a problem in the process. I just want to address the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, because he has used phrases, puts in my mouth words which I have not said, so that he is tampering with - and making a smuggling - the contents of my speech. And I would explain to Mr Lebanese that our proposal from the Step of the House today - and in view of the tabling of the amendment on valuation - is that the tests should be prescribed and that the EGE should compensate for them, so that everyone can have access for free. Is that understood? And the amendment you are bringing, Mr Levane, is too little and too late and I accused you of being hypocrisy. That's to figure out what we're talking about, first. Secondly, regarding the question of whether and how much we helped the ELTAs, I have to tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u361	Mr President, this is not on personal grounds, please very much. I'm removing your word. Now you are explaining what Mr Lebanese said. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u362	I shall conclude, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u363	Mr. Heta, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u364	Madam President, have you removed the floor for thirty seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u365	Thank you, Madam President. Because it is really raining today, your turn has come too, Mr Mitarakis. We're trying to figure it out - it's the truth - today, but it's a difficult day. It is indeed tragic what happened, Mr Metarakis, today, but this shows that, unfortunately, we still have flows. This accident that happened today, that the boat sinked, which we had some deaths etc., drowning, is tragic, but it shows that the work of the flow has continued and has not stopped. Mr. Metarakis, you invoked the NGOs and addressed them, saying that they must show a greater seriousness, not contribute to drowning people, etc. After so many years - leave us here to yell and tell you what to do with the NGOs, which you need to close, not three closed, found two - three, are more than four hundred, we have said so many times - what are you expecting from these people who are in human pain and misery to treasure? Shut them down, we'll be quiet. We did not see the NGOs, Mr Mitaraki, while Greece together with the rest of the planet, of course, vaga and die in ranches and hospitals, people go to help and provide services to non-governmental organisations. Where are the non-governmental organisations? And you're dialogued with them? No dialogue, Minister! Turn them off! You are also reintroducing an article today, a provision, which is a disgrace to us. It's a disgrace! You are, of course, changing the Ministry of Migration Policy - why is it - but are you maintaining this disgrace, which he says? The world must listen to what we are legislating in the House today: that camps may be used, granted in use by the Ministry of National Defence for reception and identification services? That public property can also be granted for free of charge by the Real Estate? Are these things going on? Do you realize where we are? That we're at zero? The country's zeroed. We're done. The world's gone bankrupt. We're done. We are in our homes closed and we grant camps and public buildings for illegal immigrants - it turns out we have flows - and you are trying to put NGOs at the table. What do you want with them? Please don't do such things because you can't see what's going on. Mr. Metarakis, you are now experienced in this area and in this ministry. You know what to do. Do it and don't be afraid. The whole of Greece will applaud you. Make up your mind. Close the NGOs. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u366	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: 'Modernisation of spatial and urban legislation'. MARTIN, Vice-President of the Commission. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. The following are Mr. Kolkalis from SYRIZA and Mr. Andreas Loverdos from the Change Movement. Mrs. Bakada, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u367	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for some years now, twenty-eight, if I am not mistaken, the ELTAs each year begin an action aimed at bringing children a little closer to the spirit of Christmas by writing to Santa Claus. And this year, for the twenty-ninth year, ELTA employees will be acting as assistants of the so - called saint, bringing Christmas magic near the children. You'll tell me now why I started this way, because I made this introduction. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, with your amendment, unfortunately a number of ELTA officials are going to have a black Christmas, Christmas without a job. You are speaking in your amendment of an attempt to restructure and restructure the company to return to profitability. What does it include, however, and what are the steps taken by your own return to resolution? For about two thousand employees, shares in the Greek Participating Company, a new commercial strategy, digital transformation and the creation of a new corporate culture. Some of them, such as corporate culture, commercial strategy, would not be negative steps, perhaps would be positive if we did not have the voluntary, wage reductions and the ESDP as a shareholder. Let us understand that, ladies and gentlemen, you and we have a different culture. You are talking about deforestation of ELTAs, on the pretext of competitiveness, cost rationalisation, but the closure of stores, because that is how rationalisation will come, along with reductions and privatisation, which you see as a solution and an end to everything that exists, for whatever business there is in our country. We regard as our duty to defend the public interest, to safeguard the social objectives of ELTAs and other similar companies, to shield the interests of citizens and to modernise them, but in the real sense of the term. Unfortunately, we see the anti-grassroots policies continue in the midst of pandemic. Unfortunately, we see the ELTAs taking their place and order after PPC, LARCO and all the other companies you are trying to relax so that they can then be sold, denounced and delivered to the interests of oligarchy. Yes, the ELTAs must be modernised, but kept under public control. You are talking about reorganisation, when, as I said, the operation goes to the Supreme Court, and you think, as the Minister responsible has said in committee, that this calls for the interest of the citizens. Really, is it the interest of the citizens to see two thousand of their fellow citizens stay without work and as many recruits as possible out of the ADP? You are trying to gain support for citizens by baptizing the fish meat and by putting them against their fellow citizens, speaking of interest through the loss of jobs of others. You continue a bisecting policy. You should, however, know, ladies and gentlemen of the Partnership, that citizens will find themselves in front of you, against all the unpopular policies to defend our country's private interests, unfortunately and not just. At the same time, you anticipate an increase in the share capital with the participation of the RIS, wanting to make the ELTAs an attractive "bride", let me say, for the "masters" that will appear a little below. I should like to say that it has been tabled in a completely irrelevant bill, because today we really have a rain. He would really know us if we didn't have any amendments to a bill. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the ELTAs have started to get rid of them since the late 1990s. There was never a planned policy to keep a profitable business. In time all the governments that have managed power in previous years have tried to cover deficits that have remained and have continued to grow. At the same time, we had thorny recruitment and shrinkage of the turmoil. In 2011, moreover, the decision was made to give the Supreme Court, the GOAD, the ELTA and removed from the ESRB. Apart from the New Democracy and the PASOK and SYRIZA on the other hand did not manage to modernise the operation by keeping it still based on lettering in the year 2020. It is not a discussion of the present, but it is extremely anachronistic to live in the 21st century and to remain attached to lettering and even to receive mail fees every month. Maybe it's a conversation we should have sometime. I should like to close, in order to be consistent in my time, and ask that the amendment we tabled on the taxation of the known FUNGS should be accepted. Although my colleague, Mr Varoufakis, did not like Mr Varoufakis' style, I would like to tell you that this is a basic difference between us, that we always speak politically, while you have no political arguments, are resorting to micro-political ones. You will never hear me or a colleague from Mera25 say that we will not vote for an amendment because we may not like the tie a minister wears today. We always respond politically. You'd better start doing that, too. In conclusion, I would like to invite you, at least now, to withdraw the ELTA amendment, now to start a debate on their reassurance. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, stop and say that you are cutting off for the good of our citizens. And now that Christmas is near, every time you see ELTA's ad for the letter to Santa Claus, remember that you left without work two thousand people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u368	Thank you too, my colleague. Mr. Red, you have the floor. Please watch your timer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the bill on combating smuggling is being discussed in plenary, a bill which, with the exception of the ELTA amendment, has been and is an opportunity for consensus and convergence. It is a bill that is based and improves policies of the previous government, policies that have laid the foundations for combating smuggling, an open and great wound indeed - to say things by their name - for Greek society. For example, I will mention some provisions: the publication of infringements, the electronic identification system for alcoholic beverages, piloted in 2018, the extension of the input-output system to customs warehouses, as well as the installation of an electronic geographical tracking system. These are no doubt provisions with a positive sign, but in order to implement all of this, people need to be found in the Ministry of Finance and customs. Unfortunately, we have not seen any moves by the government to recruit staff to carry out the necessary checks. Because the bill mentions traffic charges, you will allow me to refer to a question that concerns thousands of our fellow citizens, that of their fair and reasonable demand for a reduction in traffic charges due to their forced immobilisation by imposing restrictions. I think we all know and can understand that since the state comes and imposes on you a measure to limit freedom, freedom is also expressed by movement, basically by movement. So cars were immobilized for several months. It would be helpful for the Government and the Ministry to consider whether a favourable regulation is possible, even with doses of traffic charges. I think it is moves and initiatives - we have already tabled a question for twenty-two SYRIZA Members - Progressive Alliance - to reduce traffic charges. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not be foolish, smuggling - as I said - was an open wound to our country. The excise duty was the basic tax lost by the Greek State along with that of VAT. It is the excise duty for which our farmers were shouting, shouting and rightly complaining about agricultural oil, to reduce the excise duty on agricultural oil. It is a request which, unfortunately, we have not seen in this budget and the government is asked to take other measures, which we have proposed. Because we are listening, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that we are not making proposals. The proposals are probably not missing. There is no political will left by the government. Subsequently, because Mr Vesyropoulos was also mentioned, the dear State Secretary, in his return, number four, to say that the farmers of the special scheme have been excluded from the payment of the special VAT scheme. Let me come to article 40. It is an issue that the government has raised very much, and I want to explain here. All of us want to return as much as possible from abroad. We all want our compatriots to come back and work here. But what does this article do? Is the problem solved? Oh, no. Firstly, it concerns a limited number of natural persons. Secondly, the Scientific Service of Parliament raises such objections that there is no doubt that this provision will be problematic. So what do we want? Do we want to legislate to help? If we really wanted this, the provision would not have had that problem. In particular, the Scientific Service of the Parliament states: ‘It is not clear from the wording of the proposed provision whether the imported special method of taxation can be applied in parallel to the alternative method of taxation laid down in Article 5A of the Code of Income Tax which also occupies natural persons resident abroad who carry their tax domicile’. What does that mean? That at the moment there will be two conditions, two ways of taxing. Why can't the government make that clear? Why shouldn't the Treasury make it clear? Mr Alexiadis and Mrs Papanatsiou also tabled an amendment on the late submission of suppliers' customer statements for the year 2014. The responsibility for the delay lies with the Greek State. We expect the Minister of Finance to be placed if or not this amendment is valid. We'll wait with great anxiety. I'm closing, Madam President. We hear the government speak of consents, of shocks. You know, consents require two things: first, trust and second, honesty from all parties. According to recent revelations about the possible existence of a case registration system - and even the disclosure came not from a media that is friendly to Civic Antipolitics - citizens are reasonably concerned about the credibility and the scientific community. What does Qualified Opposition request? In order to finally stop this populism parrot, an inexpensive opposition, because the credibility of these revelations is seriously compromised and therefore the credibility of the policies that have been followed calls for publicity of all these elements relating to the management of the pandemic. I hope I was okay in time, Madam President. Thank you for understanding and tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u370	Thank you very much, Mr President. You've been over by a minute, but that's okay. The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Loverdos, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Madam President. Before making some thoughts and comments and emphasising positions on today's draft law and amendments, I would like to make a reference to a number of more general issues as a parliamentary representative. I said, by commenting on a specific point to Mr Georgiadis, not on delays, but on problematic policies to tackle the pandemic. You know, ladies and gentlemen, there is no woman in the Chamber right now - I have avoided being drawn away from opposition ostrichs and looting, speaking for a long time about the mistakes of this government in the second wave of pandemic. The citizen charges these and in the opposition he hears it when it charges delays or errors. Reflecting your parliamentary life against the criteria for the pandemic is not the right audience, and there is no audience, because there is no person interested, such as the parties, in charging one another responsibility. Normal people are interested in the moment and tomorrow. And speaking about now and tomorrow in the field of health, because of the pandemic, we need to see where that government is delaying now that we are talking about and this delay is related to tomorrow. Mr President-in-Office, you have, as a government, demonstrated particular discomfort and inability to analyse and, of course, the need for public cooperation with the private health sector. I have told you in this Chamber many times since August that if some of you who said that we are waiting for a second wave of large ones, this cooperation should have been ensured. And not only has it not been ensured, but even in the middle of your last-minute requisition with two private clinics in Thessaloniki, I hear, colleagues from Thessaloniki, that activation has not yet occurred. That's what it's talking about. I can think that the delay is due to the necessary steps to be taken, but I may even think that it was a lymphatic one. However, I am entitled to tell you that in view of the third possible wave that can occur after the holidays, public-private cooperation in the middle of the winter should be universal. In other words, where we know that the public system is hurting and it is not enough, supplements should be made in a collaborative way, with consensus and not with last-minute studs that do not help the citizens, because they do not provide more weapons to deal with the pandemic. The second point I wish to raise concerns the Minister for Finance. Mr President, I have tabled a timely question today and we will have the opportunity to discuss it next week. I will speak again for northern Greece. I am referring to the concession contest for the Ennaia road. It is a project, ladies and gentlemen, of a total investment of more than EUR 1.5 billion, that is, the most important project in the construction sector of the last decade. I hear that there are problems in consortia, which also involve businesses coming from Canada, coming from Spain, from other European countries with foreign companies. You are being asked to change the terms of the project in view of the change in terms of a small extension and do not give it, because as we learn a company from the ones that are making a bid does not want to be extended. And here, because I have heard the Minister give extensions to other cases - I am not an expert to say short or long extensions - I would point out that, in the midst of pandemic and recession, measures that restrict competition are not good for the economy. Next week we will be able to talk about it in more words. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled two amendments as PASOK - a change movement, to which I wish to stand for a moment. I always say you can't propose anything when you as government haven't done it. I always say this for Members of Parliament who belong to parties who have been engaged in government work. We had reduced VAT as a government of Papandreou to 6%. So we are coming back with this past in the middle of a crisis that had no precedent in 2010 for taking the decision as a Ministerial Council and then as a majority of Parliament, and we are talking about the focus and the issues of accommodation to go back to 6%. Why not? It is a measure that will help a great deal where aid really is needed. As far as the regional press is concerned, we also insist, Mr President, that there are special circumstances with COVID 19. It could be an argument that would convince. The reasoning is not the big question of differentiating us as PASOK - a Change Movement as well as you as SYRIZA. You must support it for the two years in support of the regional press. We now go to our own, to the bill, to the amendments first. I have here the amendment under a general number 621 and a special number 106, Article 10, 'Recommendation and operation of the Rapidity Observatory'. What's that? We in this Chamber have repeatedly exchanged arguments in a conflict with Mr Georgiadis. This observatory was supposed to be working. It was assumed that this Observatory produced results on the basis of which the Government also defined its tactics. Where he could intervened, where he had discretion, he decided. Where he intervened, but had no discretion, for example banks, he identified the problem and said it in the House. What's this now? Does the observatory need legislation? I don't get it. It needs an explanation, if it is at the moment of debate in the House on the observatory and its formation, first of all now or if you complete existing institutions with specific legislation. As far as the other amendments are concerned, we insist on something that we have told you in this House many times with the major amendments. We're having a problem. I, to say the remark I made about the PPE, made it before the Secretary-General and asked him questions. I would like, if we conclude that the amendment is inadequate, not to vote for it, but to vote for other articles in the amendment that make it easier for society and the market. Why are you forbidden from that? Why don't you give us the opportunity to vote on an article, an article, and, in many cases, a number of things, which your amendments regulate? We are now going to the draft law, in itself, in its narrow sense. We have been placed clean, saying, "yes" in the attempt to combat the smuggling of fuel, alcoholic beverages, tobacco and other products. There is no way our policy is to be negative in the fight against smuggling, in any case. Clearly positive position in principle. Filling up, not yes, but also complementing experience. I have heard in the House many ministers suggest measures to limit smuggling, but there is no restriction on smuggling in practice. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] And since we are talking about an act, I am impressed by a quote from Mr Kegeroglu, my colleague in the committee of Parliament, that according to the AIA report there are ten thousand seven hundred nineteen smuggled smuggling operations worth EUR 249 million, of which only EUR 14.5 million have been collected, i.e. 6%. I am using the argument to say that good intentions may sometimes exist, but whether the arrangements are inadequate or the administration operates inadequately or the fines imposed are not collected and the act overthrows the good intentions a government may have. I would like to stress, by closing my thoughts on this point, that smuggling, for example, in fuel is not produced at a time of the fuel traffic chain. Refinery, companies, transport companies, service stations, consumption are many moments along the way of this product to the consumer. Any engraving is there, there's smuggling. And because the Greek state is very experienced, but it has many weaknesses, I stress Mr Katrin's point. It is right to favour the person who informs of the smuggling that is taking place here or there, but when you have services very problematic, in relation to the use of information - and my colleague mentioned two examples in northern Greece - then he understands that the legislation, without the relevant services that will implement it, is by definition inadequate, however good it may be in terms of intentions or of the legal structure. However, speaking, ladies and gentlemen, on the issues of smuggling tobacco, fuels and alcoholic beverages, our minds must immediately go, in political terms, to the relationship between direct and indirect taxes. Such a subject is an example of this, a gigantic example of this matter, direct and indirect taxes. Last year's debate on the budget took place with you, and with the praise of mine, which I have always repeated, that you are not the Minister of Public Accounts, but the Minister of Public and Private Economy. This is reflected in your speeches and remarks. I can't deny it. I would also undermine my criticism of denying something that you have proved. However, the relationship between direct and indirect taxes is a cross-cutting issue in economies. The version of a class economic policy and a policy of economics looks at alleviating class opposition, especially in a period of economic crises, monuments and now pandemics. That is why this relationship is very basic and must be embodied, to be clear in the budget. In discussing an issue, therefore, which is closely linked to the issue that the draft law wants to solve and regulate today, I am coming back to one of the five comments and questions I have raised last year to you, Mr Staikoura, when we were discussing the budget for this year. One of them, therefore, said to give us this relationship between indirect - direct taxes, as Mr Staikoura is now shaping, because you are not young. You're not six months at the Ministry, like you were last year. You are now an experienced Minister of Finance, which has been closed for a year and a half at the Ministry, and you have certainly drawn up this budget which belongs entirely to you, but also to the 2020 budget, because you have been responsible for the Ministry for a six-month period. What's the connection? Our group's colleagues have done a very good job and we have a picture of the subject. The ratio of direct - indirect - 1.53%, of course, in favour of the indirect, and then, in 2010, which we had just taken over. We surrendered as a common government, Mr Stakoura, in 2014 at 1.15%, that is to say we improved as a Samara - Venizelos government for this reason and today you received it estimated at 1.45% in 2018 and 1.49% in 2019. We want to know how it forms for 2020 and 2021. We want a situation, that is, from 2017 onwards - which we do not have and which is very useful - because, apart from the scientific work our partners have done, we want the official information from the Ministry of Finance and from you as a competent Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u372	Thank you. Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece. Mr Apostolos Panas will follow and then the Deputy Minister, Mr. Vesiropoulos. Can a Member speak in between, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u373	I was going to speak four or five speakers ago to support the amendments, but that's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u374	The Vice-President, Mrs Sacorafa, before she left, told me the order and said to respect her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u375	I respect that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u376	Be well. Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u377	Thank you very much, Mr President. I remember before they said that logic stops outside the army. Now it seems to me that they should say that logic stops outside Parliament's plenary session. And I say this about how the government legislates with the bar of amendments, and not just a bar of amendments, but in such a way that it blackmails the vote of the other parties. One amendment cannot, for example, come, which has four chapters and seventeen articles. What amendment is this? That's a bill. It regulates a number of issues. Someone might agree, someone else might disagree. But you cannot vote separately for what you agree and what you disagree. So, how's it going to be? How will the votes of the opposition parties, of the JRC in this case be expressed? In the end, the Government will come out and say "the measure has not been passed by the JRC". Why? Because he was in an amendment - a broom. This cannot be the case. We constantly put it in the Bureau of Parliament, it says 'the matter will be dealt with' and things are the same and worse. In other words, there can be four chapters in an amendment and seventeen articles, which are not of an urgent nature. To understand if something is urgent and, of course, to talk about it. But what urgency can the creation and establishment of the Responsibility Observatory, which had to come to an amendment? But that's possible! Would it not be possible for everyone to come in, discuss, place themselves and be able to have a more comprehensive picture? In other words, this is an unacceptable method of manoeuvring the government and you are getting to the point. From this point of view, it is clear that the last two multimodalities which have been tabled cannot be voted on, but we shall be resorting to'representatives', and we shall say so in advance, because they regulate completely unrelated issues in which there is a different position. But we could accept them and others we do not accept them, we oppose them. We say this in advance, because it is precisely because this situation cannot go on like this, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the Government and the Bureau of Parliament. Second matter. Of course, our rapporteur has put her in detail on the issues relating to the bill, because we are not actually talking about a bill anymore, we are talking about different bills. In this respect, the rapporteur, of course, made the point and referred in detail to the provisions relating to the body of the bill, apart from the amendments. I will stick to some more general conclusions. First of all, in connection with the fight against smuggling. I've been listening to this for too many years. I was young and old. There have been too many governments, not only as long as I am a Member of Parliament, but before they all said they were bringing innovative measures that would stop smuggling and dancing billions. Another referred to how many billions of losses there are from smuggling. What was the result of all these decades? It seems that the turnover of businesses that resort to smuggling is expanded and new goods are being added to smuggling. In this respect, does the smuggling have to be struck? Of course, the JRC says. However, in order to have a substantial debate and how this can be achieved we need to look at specific issues. We need to see, for example, the key factors. We need to see a business's motive to resort to smuggling. And what's the motive? Let's start at the base. Why is the other, a business, smuggling? To make more profits. So the profit is her motive. That is the essence of the issue, and that is why we say that smuggling is a child of the system that sacrifices and converts capitalist profit into the supreme law of the economy. Of course, this gain achieves it in many ways, legitimate and non-legislative. Because, in essence, profit arises from the unpaid labour force. It is the well-being of the worker's sweat on the substance. In other words, it is not possible for the profit case to be legitimized in the sense of the working class as a whole. Secondly, what are the factors that determine smuggling? What's the smuggling field? We say it very clearly, and too many institutions have said it. The scope of smuggling is weight, is the scope of the tax burden. The greater the excise duties and VAT on a number of special goods, the greater one's incentive to evade taxes. Because if taxes were zero, then they would not have any reason to smuggle them or they would have been too limited the reason why they would be subject to smuggling. So what's the excise duty? What's VAT? It is nothing but indirect taxation, especially anti-grassroots taxation, which falls on people's incomes, regardless of level and incomes, beyond the differences that exist, such as the oil that shipowners can take free of charge. So, in other words, it creates an extra incentive through such a process. Therefore, the factors are tax burden. And here we see new goods entering this list. We used to know it was fuel, it was alcohol or smoke. Now the coffee's in. Why did the coffee come in? Because the government of SYRIZA put excise on coffee, to increase revenues through overtaxation of the people's family, and we are talking today about smuggling of coffee and a number of other issues. From this point of view, we believe that no matter how much debates take place in Parliament, no matter what measures are taken, the result will be zero. The treasure will be carbon and we will come back a few years later to discuss the question of how to deal with the smuggling issue. And, precisely because it is directly associated with the tax system, but also with Article 40, which exists within the body of the bill, we are saying it clearly, we are opposed to Article 40. And we are opposed, because it is just another link in Greece's transformation chain into tax haven. Unacceptable as an article. Because it is unacceptable, in our view, the aggressive definition that other parties give to the tax system. What should the tax system be, says SYRIZA? Competition. Really? Really, what does that mean, a competitive tax system? In other words, to shield the tax system from the competitiveness of business groups. That's what it means. In other words, companies are increasingly reducing their tax burdens. Are you serious? In fact, under what circumstances, which SYRIZA is also co-responsible for having co-financed them. Under conditions of budgetary discipline - and now let this margin be allowed because of the pandemic - throughout the European Union, throughout the Eurozone and under the conditions of primary surpluses that we need to have, in order to ensure that state debt is sustainable and that these primary surpluses, with the signature of SYRIZA, reach 2060. What, then, means a competitive tax system in such circumstances? That companies will pay less and less and less and that employees - the people - will pay more and more, because revenue must be data or otherwise you will reduce social costs even more. Because the costs you do in business groups, you do not reduce them. On the contrary, you are increasing them, so the people must choose how to sacrifice the satisfaction of a number of needs. Now, do you come and say that this is also an incentive for Article 40, which is essentially about large-scale business groups and multinationals? Will it be an incentive to return the new scientists who left? Are you serious? How will it be an incentive when the regime under which young scientists work is an occupational insecurity scheme of 700 euros or less a month? And what impact will this measure have on you when we talk about a wage of EUR 700 per month? But that's tax free. So either you give this incentive or you do not give it any reason for the young worker, the new scientist, to return under these working conditions you form. So, on the substance of the matter, you want to cover the fact that you are doing this for the multinationals. That's why you're doing it. And at the bottom - underwriting, why do there have two standards when it comes to the Greek worker? Another way to tax one another and another. Where to where can there be two measures and two weights in the way of tax treatment for the same job and for the same income? Where did this thing come from? So what do you want to shape? An even more unfair tax system. And in essence, through this process, you are increasing, you are increasingly resorting to indirect taxation. Let me refer to the other two amendments. First of all, as far as the price package is concerned, this amendment by the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Development is concerned, I would like to say: First of all, after eight months the government comes to say what? To confirm the speculation orgy made by private diagnostic centres in terms of tests. We had a huge speculation facility, and the government whistled indifferently. And today, with this definite amendment, what is going on? It enters a new negotiation with private diagnostic centres where prices will be fixed. He said that just before Mr Georgiadis, the Minister responsible. We will, he says, discuss with the Hellenic Medical Association how to determine the intermittent work to get the final price set. So he's entering a new bargain with private business groups to ensure the interests of private diagnostic centres. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What, as a JRC, do we say? As a JRC, we're saying all the tests should be free. To make mass control of the people, first and foremost workers of health. To be free of all these tests and not to enter a price fair. Why does that mean? It means ordering without compensation for the private sector and therefore private diagnostic centres. And since we are discussing these issues in the pandemic, there is a whole debate about double books, about the transparency of data, while the government does not give a full picture of the situation, the questions remain. And of course, it's not just the way the coronary cases are recorded. There are a number of other issues. For example, will there be information and the necessary measures on where cases are detected at workplaces? Here there are nameless complaints of trade unions, particularly in the field of commerce and, above all, in the supermarkets, that there are a number of cases and that there are no protection measures for the rest of the workers, under the refusal of the employer itself. Will there be a measure of knowledge, transparency and protection of the rest of the workers? Will there be transparency and information about how many doctors are already identified with a coronary? Is there going to be transparency about the shortcomings and problems in hospitals, which when the trade union doctors or nurses come out and show them, there is the risk of persecution, that is, threatening them by persecution? Such issues will be dealt with in substance if we are to discuss issues relating to the immunity of the public health system and the answer? I'll take some time from my dentistry as well. I already got it. I'll finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u378	Tritology don't ask me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u379	I want to talk about the ELTA amendment. This amendment is another link in the long-term path of shrinking the ELTA project, overthrowing labour relations and privatising it. And nowadays, are you supposed to be and SYRIZA or KINAL to say that you're conducting an ELTA payoff procedure? How many ELTA stores did they close all these previous years? How much did the project get closed down? Who is responsible for not modernising the ELTAs? Are the workers or the managers responsible, that is, the government? And today the government, stepping on existing issues and saying that the problem of rationalisation of the ELTAs is first and foremost the wage bill, which is, he says, 67% of the total cost of the ELTAs. Are you serious? And what do you want to do through this process? Of course, new measures against workers: Elimination of the substance of the collective agreement at a time when the signing of a new collective agreement is being discussed, overthrowing of industrial relations, voluntary redundancies. Favourable exits you call them, but essentially redundancies are a large part of the staff, about two thousand. And all this to create what? A new employment regime characterised by the insecurity of workers, the very cheap labour force, so that they can deliver it through this process of restructuring the company to the private sector. To privatize the ELTAs. That's the plan. That is why we say that you are bringing it under these circumstances, at this particular juncture, to complete the work that the previous governments and the SYRIZA government have left incomplete. From this point of view, we are clean. We call for this amendment to be withdrawn because it is at the expense of both the needs of our people and the rights and needs of the telecommunications workers. And look, these developments that will occur in the ELTAs, with the overturns in labour relations and the much cheaper workforce, will lead even further to the unacceptable conditions in private courier companies. From this point of view, therefore, all that this amendment ensures is the interests of major business groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u380	Thank you. Mr Panas now has the floor, and immediately after that Mr Besiropoulos has the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u381	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, in the midst of a very difficult economic situation, we are today being called upon to discuss an issue which is of concern to our economy over time: the smuggling of fuel, which is causing negative consequences for the whole of social and economic life, and which is affecting social welfare. Reforms have been carried out in the past, with the aim of reducing this, such as, for example, the liquid fuel outflow system implemented by L.3784/2009. However, it is necessary to note the motives in the blooming of the oil smuggling, with the most importantly important being the high tax burden on fuels from VAT and excise duties. It is noteworthy that the ratio of direct and indirect taxes in 2014 was 1,15 and in 2019 it reached 1,48, despite the decrease in VAT in 2019. Now, in 2020, this ratio exceeds 1,5, while for 2020, according to estimates, it can be around 1,6. This indirect tax on fuel is unfair socially, as everyone, regardless of the economic situation they are in, is called upon to bear, with this burden being disproportionate in areas of northern Greece, as in the area of northern Halkidiki, where residents are called upon to pay these high and unfair taxes, in order to warm them up during the winter months without having any other heating capacity, such as natural gas, which, unfortunately, was left out of Halkidiki by a decision of the Ministry of the Environment. At the same time, we should not lose sight of the fact that the fines for the fight against smuggling, which are, in the end, minimally collected, while the sums planned for 2020 are estimated at EUR 15 million, when at the same time the excise duties on fuel, tobacco and alcohol at the same time generate revenues that are close to EUR 6.5 billion over the last few years. Therefore, in addition to updating legislation, political will and organisational preparedness is needed, so that the control mechanisms increase their efficiency levels at all stages of the supply chain. In the face of smuggling, the State's revenues can therefore also be increased and taxes can be pushed down and the economy can be encouraged, more so to relieve vulnerable households. As far as alcoholic drinks are concerned, it is very positive that a system of control and identification should finally be applied, as the movement of unsuitable drinks without quality standards and with no real documentary evidence creates significant distortions in the local economy, and it should not be overlooked the fact that the health of the citizens is being jeopardised. In fact, through the illicit movement of unsuitable alcoholic beverages products, the further development of Greek enterprises in the sector is undermining and the State’s revenues from this activity are drastically limited. Furthermore, with regard to policy on attracting natural persons and businesses through tax incentives, we should point out that we are positive about the resurgence of Brain drain and the return of educated human resources with high skills and can contribute to the creation of added value for the country. Indeed, the current health situation is an opportunity as more and more workers work remotely and is given the opportunity to come and settle in our country, as it offers a number of advantages to be a resident. However, we cannot overlook the fact that additional tax incentives have been introduced to attract investors without a system of accountability for the actual contribution of these measures to the Greek economy. It is therefore necessary to know what the number of people benefiting from the above provisions was and what the more general added value obtained from these actions for the country was. However, the government must also not forget to provide incentives to people who have chosen to stay in Greece, to create their businesses here in such a difficult environment, to create jobs by exporting products and services. Finally, on traffic charges, we would like to point out that this should at last be proportionate. In other words, the citizen who pays traffic charges, beyond the environmental dimension, also receives similar services on the country's road networks so that at least his life is not compromised, bearing in mind that even today on large sections of the road network throughout the country, as in Halkidiki, there is no alternative than road transport. They have not been fully maintained and posed a risk. Therefore, with these arrangements, there must be a recompense for the part of the traffic charges and the provision of services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, too. We will now start with Mr. Vesyropoulos and Mr. Spanakis will take the floor. Minister, you are too many tax agents here and there is solidarity and anxiety. A moment ago, Mr. Alexiadis was asking whether Mr. Spanakis would speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u383	I was nervous.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u384	I know. It's collegial solidarity. Please, Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor for fourteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u385	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, smuggling is a national objective that goes beyond the political cycle of governments. The draft law we are debating today is not another institutional intervention that will lose in the field of the application and functionality of the provisions contained in it. On the contrary, it is a structured and studied legislative initiative. It is a product of analysis and study of all gaps recorded in the existing institutional framework for the prosecution of smuggling and its treatment. This institutional framework aims to improve the provisions contained in the draft law on the reduction of the smuggling of fuels, tobacco products and alcoholic beverages. However, the main aim is to make it more operational. We analysed all the parameters. We all know that the input-output system installed in companies and agencies has not produced results on the issue of controls and cross-checks. Why was that? Because there was no central information system for the analysis of the data sent by offices and companies through this system in order to exploit this infrastructure. In addition, there was no automated way of crossing data recorded in terms of accuracy and correctness. We also know how important a parameter was the obligation to install the GPS geographical locator system in tankers and floating equipment. As long as there were no sanctions provided for and there was no complete framework of its installation specifications, it was a letter of intent. There was a clear gap in the issue of products such as LPG, whose handling was impossible since the product concerned had not been integrated, in respect of large storage facilities, into the input-output system. There is also a lack of a single centre with all the responsibilities to deal with smuggling and coordination of the services involved. Because, since 2016, the Coordinating Business Center has been set up to deal with the smuggling of excise products, but for two years it has remained inactive. In 2018, he did not have the necessary skilled staff, as well as the expanded responsibilities and material means needed to perform his role and mission. The study of all these weaknesses and safety gaps has led to the provisions of the bill that is currently coming for discussion and vote in Parliament. The Coordinating Operational Centre is now under the supervision of a government committee led by the Minister of Finance. The responsibilities of the Coordinating Business Centre are now extended to other products subject to excise duty, such as coffee and electronic cigarette replacement fluids. It will have enhanced and expanded competences while being staffed with competent, experienced and qualified executives chosen on objective criteria. It will have all the responsibilities, but it will also have the responsibility to coordinate all those responsible for prosecuting the smuggling authorities. From there on, the bill contains specific provisions covering all the safety gaps that we have recorded in reducing the fuel smuggling. These are important interventions. First, an electronic register is established for the inventory of fuel storage and handling tanks. This provides for compulsory census for all fuel storage and handling tanks, other than those used by final consumers and armed forces. Secondly, the input-output system is extended to all LPG storage facilities, and the use of a molecular trace system for these products is foreseen. Thirdly, the movement of oil products by tankers or waterways, such as tankers and shells, which do not have an electronic geographical GPS detection system, is prohibited. Fourthly, strict financial penalties are laid down for infringements of the specific obligations relating to the installation of a GPS electronic geographical detection system in tankers and waterways, as well as the input-output system in customsly controlled storage facilities for liquid fuels and LPGs. Such infringements shall provide for an additional temporary removal of the traffic permit of the tanker or the operating licence of the floating supplying agent for a period from one month to one year. Fifthly, the problem of fuel fraud is dealt with for the first time, since the administrative measure of the temporary sealing of stations and other marketing plants is provided for, in cases where the fuel is found to be unfavourable, but also for the publication of the information which distorts fuels. Sixth, in order to make the system of input-output effective at last, the powers to develop and manage information input-output systems, as well as the GPS geographical locating system of fuels, come now to the Independent Public Income Authority. The implementation of the integrated system of input-outputs is now under the supervision of a new government committee headed by the Minister of Finance, which is immediately recommended by the Government. However, it is also important to intervene in two other areas, where so far there has been adequate ground for smuggling. I am referring to alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. Especially in order to deal with the smuggling of alcoholic beverages, the bill stipulates: First, the creation of an electronic register of natural and legal persons producing, processing, acquiring from abroad or selling alcoholic beverages. Secondly, the establishment and operation of an electronic identification system for alcoholic beverages based on the indication of a batch in which data on the production, receipts from abroad, processing and wholesale of alcoholic products will be recorded. In fact, these interventions for the first time introduce the use of electronic supply monitoring systems for alcoholic beverages. In the tobacco sector, a key point is the interconnection of the national single central register of tobacco supply and manufactured tobacco and the information system for the traceability of tobacco products. On a practical level, this means that with the help of a unique number the whole course of a pack of cigarettes is monitored until it reaches the first retail point. At the same time, the movement of critical raw materials such as cigarette paper, as well as critical activities in the tobacco supply chain, such as mediation and processing, will now be monitored. In the bill, ladies and gentlemen, provisions with a developmental character and a sign, such as the income tax exemption and the special solidarity levy for 50% of income for seven years for employees and entrepreneurs who will transfer their tax residence to Greece. It is noted with regard to the first condition that Greece should not have been a tax resident in Greece in the previous years, before the transfer of its tax domicile to Greece, with the legislative improvements we have put forward to reduce the time required by two years. This is a provision which does not have as its recipient and benefits only citizens with a tax home abroad, but also aims to repatriate the Greeks and especially the Greeks of the new generation who left the country in the years of the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to the content of the amendment with a general number of 620 and a specialist of 105 tabled by the Ministry of Finance. As I have been given many times to say, managing and dealing with the consequences of the pandemic is not a static process. It is constantly developing and requires new and up-to-date interventions in the direction of support for the economy of enterprises and workers. The amendment tabled by the Ministry of Finance contains similar interventions. In particular, Article 1 of the amendment allows those affected by the pandemic and who have lost for whatever reason to regulate a partial payment of a hundred or a hundred twenty instalments or an extrajudicial mechanism in the period of March - November 2020 to be able to continue the regulation as from December 2020. This regulation revives with all its benefits, such as the release of bank accounts. Doses not paid are added as overnumbers after the last dose. The re-incorporation into the arrangement shall be carried out automatically by the payment of the December 2020 instalment. The second article of the amendment stipulates that 50% of the reduction in the rent paid to owners of reduced rents is inappropriate, unaccompanied and incompatible with public, municipal, insurance and banking obligations. Article 3 seeks to support catering enterprises. In order to avoid agglomeration in their interiors and operation in outdoors, where better ventilation contributes to the protection of public health, even during the winter season, the grant for the supply of outdoor heating appliances was decided for up to EUR 100 per heating body and up to EUR 5,000 per focus area. In fact, these amounts are inconsistent, unaccompanied and inconsistent with public, municipal, insurers and banking institutions. Article 4 also provides for an extension of the suspension of application of Articles 47, 48 and 49 of Law 466/2019. Article 5 contains tax provisions to strengthen the Greek register. The sixth article of the amendment introduces an essential support measure for professional fishermen living on small and remote islands where no duty-free shipping is available. This means that these people are forced to supply taxed petrol for the needs of their fishing vessels and to pre-paid the excise duty, although they are entitled to exemption from it. This tax is currently refunded to them every three months after applying to the customs office. The regulation we are bringing to the vote today enables fishermen from small and remote locations where oil is marketed on the islands to receive at the beginning of each year the reimbursement of the excise duty on fuel which they are entitled to annually. It is a measure that facilitates these people, particularly at this juncture, and I think it should be broadly supported. In the direction of support for enterprises affected by the current period, Article 7, which has as a reference the undertakings active in the marketing of energy products, is also initiated. This provision allows companies of oil to pay the customs offices and subject to a guarantee of up to and including 20 each month the charges corresponding to fuel consumed in the first nineteen days of the month. Article 8 introduces a new arrangement into the National Customs Code. In particular, there are cases of infringements which show that negligible amounts are missing, total taxes of up to EUR 50 for the State from fuel taxes. In these cases, however, there is the phenomenon that the competent authorities are being disproportionately severely penalised in relation to the damage of the public. It is, I think, reasonable that a fine of EUR 1,500 cannot be imposed. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] You will give me two or three minutes, Mr President, because I must support the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u386	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u387	It is reasonable, I think, that a fine of EUR 1,500 cannot be imposed for the evasion of a excise duty of EUR 1 or 2. In such cases, where the total amount of taxes does not exceed EUR 50, the highest fine shall be equal to three times that amount, with a lower amount of EUR 100. Article 9 introduces a provision for the total destruction or irreparable loss of tobacco products subject to excise duty and for the replacement of electronic cigarettes under suspension for the purpose of normal operation and support of undertakings operating in the sectors concerned. At the same time, the possibility of reimbursement of the excise duty paid on coffee products exported or consigned to other Member States - and thus not consumed in Greece is envisaged. In accordance with Article 10, in accordance with the applicable Union provisions, ethyl alcohol used as a raw material for the production of medicinal products is exempted from excise duty. Article 11 is linked to dealing with the smuggling of fuels and provides for the sealing of tankers in order not to be channelled within the country - at the stage of transport from the loading point to the last exit point - of fuel for which export has been declared. Article 12 reduces VAT rates from 24% to 13% in food products and preparations to remove existing distortions for certain foodstuffs, such as mustard. Article 13 of the amendment provides for the refund of the registration fee paid for vehicles exported to third countries or consigned to another Member State of the European Union without being classified and therefore not finally released into our country. Also, an important innovation in the direction of facilitating citizens and developing eGovernment infrastructures is set out in Article 14. It is the declaration of immobility of vehicles which have so far been physically present in the DUs. The same was the case with the lifting of the blockade, which resulted in the additional administrative burden for the DUs, but mainly the suffering and loss of time for the citizens. From now on, the immobilisation of a vehicle and its lifting will be done electronically, without the owner having to go to the DU. Finally, the more specific provision for the powers of the prosecutor for financial crime is in line with the general rules of Article 35 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, as amended by the recent Law 4745/2020, in order to avoid possible interpretative issues. I would also like to refer to the amendment with a general number of 621 and a specialist of 106. Article 3 sets out applicable expropriatory provisions, including the exemption from traffic charges and the registration fee of passenger vehicles, still some groups of disabled persons, such as cystic fibrosis patients and heart transplanted or lung transplanted. Article 4 lays down the competent authorities for the implementation of the Protocol on the Elimination of Illicit Trade in tobacco, which is ratified by Part II of the Protocol. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the beginning of my speech, this bill is a product of study, recording and addressing all the weaknesses of the framework for dealing with smuggling. The aim is to fill the gaps that exist and exploit all those engaged in smuggling and fraudulent acts which have an impact on public revenue and on healthy economic activity. There is no doubt that there are intentions in the policy. However, efficiency is mainly judged to be effective. And the strategic targeting of this bill is to increase the effectiveness of efforts to curb smuggling. An effort that does not have partisan but national features. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u388	Thank you, Minister. Since we cannot hear Mr Spankis, I will give Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou the floor first from SYRIZA and then Mr Spankis will speak. Here, Mr. Meikopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u389	Thank you very much, Mr President. Because of the criticalities of the situation, I could not comment more widely on current developments. The picture from the data on the spread of pandemic is particularly dramatic. It has now become a tragic daily life for doctors and nurses to make desperate efforts to find an empty bed in the ICUs. While doctors all over the world stress the risk of patients being treated outside intensive treatment units, more and more people are being invaded and lost their lives outside the ICU. The crucial question, therefore, is why there is this terrible difficulty in finding a IFB bed, when the New Democracy's claim is that there are a thousand two hundred beds all over Greece and only yesterday the intubated ones were about six hundred people. And it may be in the last few days the first topic to discuss and comment on social media, panels, public spheres to be the photography of Mr Mitsotakis in Parnitha or Mrs Marvas' motocross, but at the same time the country breaks one negative record after another in the management of the pandemic. And we must not forget that November ended with an account of a thousand seven hundred eighty victims of the coronary. Certainly a picture of six violations of the law by the one who should set a good example first is being criticised. However, what really matters to the world, what burns him, if you like, is not either the lifestyle of Mr Mitsotakis or Mrs Marvas, nor their low empathy, but why we have come to count a hundred victims a day. The day before yesterday, we had a hundred and eleven, because people die without being accepted to the intensive care unit, because the public hospitals in the country were finally left undisturbed to the pandemic. And as if not all of this were enough, recent reports mention the existence of an illegal case log. Another number of positive ones, then, give the hospitals and EOH. And if that is true in the end, the major issue that arises is not to reflect the exact number of positive citizens and to fatalize the epidemiological picture that is being formed to be unequivocal to reality and therefore to create a serious problem of adequacy in the recommendations made by scientists on measures. At this point, I would also like to go into the bill we are debating today. I think that our rapporteur, Mr Alexiadis, has described the whole of the bill with complete clarity, clarity and adequacy. That is why I will be content with some of the points. First of all, I think we should learn at some point to produce as National Representation, as a political system, real political and social added value. And that kind of goodwill draws when you promote and do not underestimate democratic dialogue. Democratic dialogue means joining and listening at the same time to the organised expressions of society, namely the social actors. I would like to point out these, because in a bill to which there is no initial disagreement, which is in a positive direction and which Parliament, the parties and the social partners could be able to formulate a common front and send a strong signal to organised economic crime and tax evasion, the government seems to be operating with an unjustified rush, with 'a rain' of unrelated amendments under the suffocating regime, giving the impression that it does not believe too much of what it is doing. And I cannot fail to point out, colleagues and colleagues, and an irony, because I really can't forget. And in this bill there is a strong inconsistencies. I remember the Members of the New Democracy, as opposition, to make fire words in the plenary or in the committees of the House on the way and the procedures for legislating chosen by SYRIZA. Continuous, indeed, then a promise was to restore the ways of good legislating by the New Democracy. So how the New Democracy means good legislation is also proved by the current procedure: little to suffocating public consultation, the fast track procedures of debate in Parliament, the twenty-five articles became forty-one bills within the legislation itself and at the same time a debate with the budget. While the statue of good legislature is the fundamental five bills on the packaging of one, as our rapporteur, Mr Alexiadis, has rightly pointed out, and also our parliamentary representative, Mr Katsis, has pointed out. Do not forget, Minister, whether unintentionally or intentionally, that there is a history recorded as an institutional and legal framework in the fight against fuel smuggling. Input/output systems from the refinery to the last retail point were inherited by SYRIZA, the identification and registration systems of vehicles, as well as the digital display systems of the interior of the trucks. So, as an imperative institutional and political obligation, as a social obligation, if you want, the continuation and continued modernisation of the control framework in the ongoing fight to combat smuggling. However, the fast track procedures for legislating on such key issues, apart from sluggishness and devaluation of public dialogue, may unfortunately also conceal a lack of real political will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u390	Thank you, Mr. Meikopoulou. Mr. Spankee, can you hear me? May I begin, Mr Spankis, with the rapporteurs, since we can't hear you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u391	Mr President, I think I'm sounding right now, aren't I?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u392	Yes, sir. Now we're listening. You're in two devices. This has never happened before. Only you could do that. If you want to talk to two, what can I tell you? Here, then, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u393	Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to SYRIZA colleagues talking about a message of unity through this bill, which I think brings substantial solutions to chronic problems. But the message of unity comes not only from what we say in Parliament's Chamber but also from what we say in the media. I say this because the top SYRIZA executive today with statements throwing oil into the fire and, if anything, does not send a message of unity. At a time of great and serious global health crisis demanded by the people, the world, the society, we have a spirit of unity and a real prerogative. But society, ladies and gentlemen, cannot wait. He wants the political system to be vigilant. He wants appropriate measures from the government. And that's what we do. And this is seen in every bill of our government. I see, however, from the SYRIZA's standpoint that it has a sense to constantly throw the ball at the platform and renounce its institutional responsibilities. But you're not mistaken. That's what you did when you were in the government, that's what you can do now that you're in the opposition. I would ask you, however, to vote on this bill and any objections you have, to say them. The rapporteurs have the opportunity to mention them. You referred to the youths of Brain Drain. The Minister of Finance replied. I want to start with Article 40. The aim is to give genuine incentives to attract tax residents. And I tell you today to vote on this provision, because it will be a success. Don't try and find anything negative in this bill. In fact, since some colleagues have already referred to the fact that we are not catching up with the great range of people, I would like to tell them that they may not have read the tax provisions well, that Article 5c refers to natural persons. But there's also the 5a that talks about investors, and there's 5b that's about retired people. Ladies and gentlemen, smuggling of tobacco products, fuels and alcohol is a major problem which has equally serious consequences for the economy, health and society. On the one hand, we have lost public revenue, which is unfortunately more than EUR 1 billion per year, while at the same time, companies that operate legally and consistently. Of course, the consumption of these uncontrolled smuggled products poses a serious risk to the health of the citizens. The high taxation, the major economic crisis, the laudable legal framework, the subsistence of the responsible services, all of this has led to the launch of the smuggling in our country. And I ask you this: will you not vote on the amendments that bring tax-free, unexpected, irresponsible payments to the state, the public, to property owners, for example, or to other charges that the Treasury has today with its amendment? On this occasion, however, I would also like to refer to an amendment that we tabled together with five other colleagues in the New Democracy. Minister, Mr. Secretary, I know that you are very well aware of taxation. I know that you are fighting a great deal so that the public financial services can catch the targets, because that is for the benefit of the whole society. Today, we have tabled six colleagues an amendment which is also a proposal from the Chamber of Economics, the world of economists, accountants, tax operators expressing thousands of businesses, thousands of natural and legal persons. We ask for the regulation to be made to delete fines for the late submission of the 2014 MDGs and allow statements by accountants - tax technicians who suffer from COVID 19 for a reasonable period of time. And we say that, because the New Democracy Government is taking urgent measures, but at the same time it is taking appropriate measures. And that is what society's response to measures shows. So, Minister, I know that you do not accept, you do not accept parliamentary amendments. Please, I would like you to accept this amendment, because we will also release people from public financial services to deal with these days, before 31 December, with a substantial tax item. It is a mistake made in the SYRIZA government and we are called upon to correct it. Mr Alexiadis said so too. Of course, Mr Alexiadis didn't tell us what he had to do with Mr. Tsakalotos, who was saying other things by Karagiorgis Serbia and others by Niki. We must respond to the demand from the scientific world, the request from thousands of businesses. But let me say, because you know very well, Minister and Minister, that I come from the Ministry of Finance of the AIA, to tell you that it is very important, and the amendment tabled by colleagues of the Change Movement entitled 'Adapting the special disciplinary provision under Article 159 of Law 2960/2001 for customs officials in force in the Code of Civil Service Officers'. It is a very sensible amendment and a regulation that needs to be made so that there can be fair treatment of civil servants. Ladies and gentlemen, one could speak for many hours about so many articles. You know, don't look for an excuse of style 'is a lot of articles, we don't get a chance'. That's not an excuse. I say this because, in the end, will you dare, colleagues, to vote against the automatic reintegration into regulations, revival, the measure that comes in the process of lifting immobilisation, which we have had suffering and tails in public financial services, and today, in a relevant provision, is an end? In short, this government is for the small ones too. And we're bringing in changes. And we'll bring in more changes. And let me say that it is in the right direction, in that direction that the Greek people gave us the mandate on 7 July. That's what we're doing. We don't do anything different. Those of you who come to this Chamber, too, to speak against the Greek Postmaster's amendment, probably have not seen what is happening on the sidewalk, the endless tails, the suppression of the services. That's not something we brought in. It is something that we have received from the SYRIZA government. So these weaknesses and many others are called upon to resolve. Mr President, I shall refer specifically to the smuggling of tobacco products which has received alarming proportions. About 1/4 of the Greek smokers have turned to the market and consumption of smuggled cigarettes. So this bill comes to solve individual issues. But you will allow me to refer to...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u394	Mr Colleague, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u395	...with today's bill in that context to substantially upgrade. One could talk about a lot of other things that have been mentioned, such as the establishment of the Online Register of Consultants of Alcoholous Drinks. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that with our legislative work every day we come to supplement and improve the existing framework, to correct where necessary, while introducing new regulations. Nothing stays in the drawer. We produce work and substance. We have specific directions and objectives and we implement them day after day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u396	Thank you. We will now start with Mr Heta, who is also a parliamentary representative and a special speaker. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u397	I think we have said too much since the morning, we would just like to put ourselves in the amendments more and more. Minister - and we have said this during the day - I think you are generally unfair to yourselves, Mr Besiropoulos. We are bound by something and cannot vote for them. Or is the reverse happening, that is to say, amendments which are negative have one - two good things again, say 'good, did you not vote for the hundred and twenty instalments?'. Where to explain to the world now to see that the amendment has twelve, fourteen, seventeen articles in it. And unfortunately, this is at the expense of your work, because it does not appear. In other words, there is an amendment from the Ministry of Rural Development which we would like to vote on, for example, but within the ELTAs, we are voting against as the provision comes. I mean, it's not the right thing to do. See really if they can come separately. It's a more painful process and a more tiring one for all of us, but I think it's even more right. That is the case, let us say, in the case of the amendment that you have in it for those who have lost the deadlines for the hundred and twenty instalments, etc. There's some ambiguities there with university teachers. We really can't get into these situations. As in Amendment No 621, for example, you have people with disabilities. Do not let anything wrong out - and it is good to hear it, to record it in the Minutes and to make it clear - because there is no Greek who does not want the beneficial provisions for people with disabilities - for God's sake! - and we're with them and we're supporting them. But, as I said to Mr Mitarakis, when there is an article in it that says that camps and public buildings are allowed to be used for illegal immigrants, the Greek Solution cannot vote for this, I am so sorry. So the vote in all of this amendment is 'no'. It's too bad and unfair and so on. We've been talking about the ELTAs. There's gotta be a self-critic about how we got here, Mr. Spanaki, who you said before that you received from SYRIZA. They obviously didn't do well, but I presented them in my speech this morning as a special speaker saying that the ELTAs started to collapse and "inside" from 2007, essentially not since 2015. So I would like to say that the parties that have ruled this country have achieved this unimportant, a monopoly such as the Greek Post Office not to be profitable when their competition, courier companies and have invested and made good money, and because the conditions now favour and not only because of COVID, but also as a new trend of the time, on line orders and everything else. They've kneeled, they can't make it. And we've stayed in that part back. These are for the amendments. For the bill, as I told you, Mr Ministers this morning, we cannot say that we throw our broom out of joy, that it is the best, but it is really a national case to stop smuggling and we will be positive at first of all in the bill on combating smuggling, although we have made some proposals. Mr Stavoura and Mr Vésyropoulos, we have said this too many times, see it a little. I know you won't, but we insist on this one. Instead of extending the possibility for Greeks who are not necessarily moving, to save three or four months - I think it makes sense - whether we can manage it if not today, in the next bill. In any case, you are bringing any amendments. They have to be locked in their homes. To save three months, that's to say, alleviate them a little. I think that all Parliament's wings will applaud, but also all the Greeks will applaud that. It makes sense. So not just the extension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u398	Now Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u399	Thank you, Mr President. They are coming Christmas and the amendments are increasing. And I remember two decisive dates: a date of December 23, 2014, where there was a huge number of amendments, since the parliamentary term had been closed because of the apparent non-election of the President of the Republic and another on SYRIZA that had exceeded every record. Today, we have a bill forty articles other than the start of the amendments and the articles of the amendments are forty-one, Mr President. And I ask the first question: should the title of the bill, at least, not have changed? Is it possible to remain the same title as forty additional articles in forty, which actually regulate important issues? What they were saying 'and other provisions' used to be the wrong language, and we did it 'and other provisions'. Not even this 'the other provisions' were added.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u400	I haven't spoken yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u401	That's why I'm telling you before you talk, Mr. Stakoura, to take it into account and correct your mistakes. And personally, as I said, the Treasury, sometimes very little, listens to us. It's other ministers who don't listen to anything ever. For the bill and for us to be clear, since I spoke at the first minute I said - and indeed everyone said: well, once you have reservations, other parties are being reserved, etc. - that for the purpose of the draft legislation alone I say 'yes' in the first place. Now I tell you that we are voting on all the articles in the bill, all without exception. After the improvement accepted by the Minister for Taxation and reduced it to five out of six years, we are also voting for this provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u402	From the seven years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u403	From the seven years he reduced it to five. I'm sorry. We are therefore voting for this provision. For the substance of the bill, we have asked for an operational plan with specific objectives and time milestones, and we hope that the Minister will present it next time. In the amendments, we are also voting for the Ministry of Development's amendment on the valuation of the two amendments tabled by the Ministry of Finance, one with seventeen articles and the other with 11, because the vast majority of the articles are in agreement. There are some comments and improvements that could be made in individual articles, but in accordance with the procedure followed - and the Conference of Presidents must finally decide to change it - we cannot distinguish paragraphs in articles. What do I mean by 'with the procedure', Mr President? The articles of the amendments must enter a voting procedure separately. It is not understood that the seventeen articles should enter the process by one vote. If that's possible! This is a levelling-up of the process. I will put it again tomorrow at the Conference of Presidents. We are therefore voting for the three amendments tabled by both the Ministry of Finance and one Development. So far it is forty and in addition to the twelve articles in the amendment to the Digital Policy Policy, which has come to overthrow the good climate that has been set up in the Chamber for a conciliation and a strong message of political will to combat smuggling. It came to overthrow this climate an amendment which includes provisions that are faithful copying of a law a year ago, and even telling us that the Minister "ma, is in the "parallel" of the ELTAs!" Well, didn't you know a year to copy Mr. Hatzidakis? It's a faithful copy. We also have rights to the PPC bill! We totally disagree with legislating on the preparation of privatisation without having presented the plan. We're asking for the plan to come to Parliament, to the relevant committees, to a project for the development of the ELTAs...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u404	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u405	I shall conclude with that, Mr President. ... ensuring its development with quality services, with a wide network of services throughout the country and ensuring workers' rights. For this reason, we are voting against this amendment, as I called it by Mr Pierrakakis, who has not put any penny on it, but only the replacement of the title PPC under the title ELTA, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u406	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. You've reached six minutes. Do you have anything else to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u407	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u408	You're welcome. Mr Alexiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u409	Thank you, Mr President. I am addressing the Bureau above all, because the government today has made a basic political choice, which will be borne by you, Mr Stavoura and Mr Besyropoulos, in the sense that you have refused political dialogue. You had an opportunity as head of the Ministry of Finance to bring here a bill on the serious issue of smuggling and to vote unanimously by the Greek Parliament or at least by a very large majority. To serve minors and other purposes, you threw this in the trash. You are sending the wrong message and you have great responsibility, responsibility and personal and political responsibility. And I say this because of our pre-service to our political confrontation. I would remind you - if you wish - what two opposition MPs were saying when I was in the cabinet and they were down and blaming us for things. As far as the operation of this House is concerned, however, we were given a forty-page bill and discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs. We called organizations, etc. And today, we have an amendment of 598, twelve articles, eighty-three pages, an amendment of 600, an article and eighteen pages, an amendment of 620, seventeen articles, sixteen pages, an amendment of 621, eleven articles, sixty pages. We have forty a articles, as the other Cappadakis said, and three hundred pages, about. Is this a parliamentary procedure? That is a refusal of political dialogue. And in politics, denial of political dialogue shows one thing, political weakness. We are not pleased about this because you have chosen this political conflict, from which you have lost yourself on a crucial issue for the finances of the state and for competitiveness. And one final word to the Bureau. They brought us a bill and we heard beliefs here, how perfect they were and how organized they were and how much they had prepared for them. And if someone reads in the amendments they have brought us, there are provisions amending provisions relating to smuggling in Amendment No 620. In other words, we have been discussing for so many days, we have told you since the first day that you are'subject to the amendments to know and to speak in committee' and until the committee ends you have not brought any amendments, and now you are bringing all these amendments. Some of them, of course, solve problems and are positive. But here you are doing the other parliamentary manoeuvre. From day one, the parties that we have tabled amendments and which solve problems - even your own bodies say that you must respond - do not answer what you are going to do. You don't even answer what you're going to do. I will even reach this out of political SYRIZA. Will you take the New Democracy Members' amendment, which solves a problem? I may be critical of my party, but, in order to solve a problem, I put the benefit of society above the party benefit. That's not even why you're answering. I understand your political discomfort. I also understand a political horizon that you see is coming and the bikes do not solve this issue. At last, however, decide how you operate as a government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u410	Mr Anastasiades has the floor, and then the Minister closes the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u411	Thank you, Mr President. I want to make a few points from the debate that I have been attending all day. First of all, I would like to respond to the President of the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos, who, in the morning, referred to an issue, I think, seeking to create impressions. I am referring to Article 23 and the bonus granted to those who help to break up smugglers and those who exercise control in order to clear up smuggling. It has been said that this is also done in tax controls. It was likely that only for this reason, officials would go - in particular, it was referred to pizza - and blackmail, to blackmail and terrorize citizens or entrepreneurs. It's not like that. It's not about tax checks on the bonus. Bonus only concerns those who facilitate the passage of smuggling and those who practice, customs officials and customs services and no one else. It is perhaps a misunderstanding, but a wrong message is given to society. In any case, before it was mentioned, it should ask the customs officials and officials of other prosecution authorities under what circumstances, what risks and difficulties are those controls to be incurred? Because they have to deal with ruthless circuits. Colleagues have been mentioned - Mr Loverdos, I think, but others too - in the 2019 receipts, that many fines were charged, but few were collected. You must know - and you know that, Mr Alexiadis - that after the charge of the offenders appeal to the administrative courts. And this is a long-term process. Therefore, charging with recovery will always have this difference, because fines are not directly collected. Some have also referred to the great difference in excise duty which exists and attracts the offenders. That's the way it is. But look, I also said in my position that smugglers find new ways to deceive authorities. With the increased excise duty, which has been imposed on heating oil in recent years - and with the bonus, weak social groups - are favoured by many company owners who consume diesel for the needs of their business, also consume their homes, their swimming pool, too. Because they net off the corresponding value added tax, they justify it as an expense and as an exit of their business. Of course, in many cases they have a refund of EUR 125 per kilometre. So what I am saying now also justifies legislation, because new methods of smuggling are always invented. Now, as far as the need for the amendments is concerned, I think she was stressed. I heard that most of you agree, regardless of whether you vote or not. I won't stand on this. Most of you recognise the need for the amendments. I am not talking about this any more. I would like to thank all the Members who participated in today's sitting because, despite the differences, a very good meeting was held in civilised context, in political terms with a civilised dialogue. And I also welcome the parties that vote for the bill and give a large majority, but also all parties. And the parties that vote against the bill accept its necessity. And wish the next time we discuss the results of the smuggling and implementation of this law, Minister, even better and more. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u412	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u413	Thank you, Mr President. Let's start with generals. We have four ministerial amendments in the bill. The words 'and other provisions' will therefore be supplemented, we have four ministerial amendments of forty-page size and not three hundred fifty. The real legislative text is forty pages. Everything else is the text accompanying it. The current government has rightly chosen to follow this procedure for reasons of transparency. In order not to create impressions. I put one last piece of legislation in the Minutes. It's a refill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u414	There is indeed no parliamentary amendment accepted. I must, however, admit that the parliamentary amendment tabled by Mr Spankis, Mr Papapas, Mr Baraliakos and others - these three names I see here - will be evaluated by the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance, by the responsible State Secretary, and, if technically implemented by the AIA, we will proceed. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has shown that it acts quickly, efficiently and decisively to limit the effects of the health crisis as far as possible. He continues to act with morality and responsibility. This is recognised - Mr Colleague, you spoke of political weakness - within and outside Greece. It is recognised by the partners from the Eurogroup's previous communication. Recognised by the institutions, the eighth evaluation. It is recognised by investors. In recent years they have increased their investments and positions in Greece, the country and the Greek economy. It is recognised by markets. Today we went out with much more negative interest rates on tangential bills. Recognised by rating houses, upgraded by MODY'S within the health crisis. And of course it is recognized primarily by Greek society. This rather strengthens the government's political power and shows the political weakness of the Officerial Response. At the same time, however, the fact is that the government does not suspend its reform planning. It unfolds its legislative work with the aim of creating the preconditions for a rapid upsurge initially and sustainable development later on in the Greek economy. This road follows and on this path it will continue to walk. This is indeed confirmed in the draft law under discussion, but also in its amendments. You will allow me to highlight four aspects which show the holistic approach and the commitment to the implementation of structural changes. First aspect: For the first time, the issue of the smuggling of fuels, cigarettes and alcoholic beverages is systematically and holisticly addressed. Modernise the legislative framework, strengthen operational coordination of services, strengthen the competent prosecution authorities and introduce a set of new measures and strict sanctions. All of this, you know, because I have heard some opposition party leader memorialize - the Greek public administration is carrying out it, our compatriots, our civil servants and officials. And because other issues have been mentioned, Greece is a member of the OECD and participates in discussions and decisions that we want to take to tax the digital economy expected in 2021. There is a political commitment at European level by ECOFIN to await OECD decisions. If they do not exist, then we will proceed to a Community solution in 2021. However, unilateral actions do not offer anything. In particular, the provisions of the draft law upgrade the existing coordinating operational centre and extend its powers to excise products such as coffee and tobacco. Electronic system for monitoring the supply chain of alcoholic beverages shall be established. A new electronic register for the inventory of energy storage and handling tanks shall be established. The administrative measures taken in the case of fuel-generating shall be confirmed. An integrated gas monitoring and control system shall be established by extending the input-output system to all their storage facilities. The framework for fiscal labelling of liquid fuels and liquid gas shall be updated by introducing a molecular traceability system for such products. Strict financial penalties are introduced for breaches of the geographical positioning obligations, i.e. GPS, in tankers and floating equipment, i.e. squids. In addition to the existing activities, other critical activities carried out following authorisation under the tobacco supply chain shall be strengthened. Provision is made for the interconnection and interoperability of the national centralised tobacco supply and manufactured tobacco with the information system in the tobacco traceability register. It improves the institutional framework for due diligence measures for tobacco companies. The framework of anticipated imprisonment and imprisonment sentences for the offence of smuggling is being tightened, and finally the International Protocol on the Elimination of Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products of the Convention - the World Health Organisation for Tobacco Control - is being ratified, the provisions of which form the basis for transnational cooperation and the exchange of know-how in the critical area of control for the detection of illegal trade in tobacco products and the reduction of smuggling. Therefore, a large volume of legislative boom covers a significant structural change, a reform that the country needed, and I am glad that most opposition parties embraced the government's initiative. Second aspect, to see if we remain committed to the necessary reforms that the country needs: incentives are provided to attract foreign taxpayers to Greece. Let's see some of the hair that was created. The beginning when did it happen? It was just a year ago in the resolution of Law 4646/2019, a law that then introduced the institution of the resident non-resident, aimed at attracting foreign taxpayers who make significant investments in our country, benefiting from an alternative tax regime for their global income. I would like to inform the House, because I assume that you want information on this, and always the Ministry of Finance gives everything it has and asks, that the acceptance of 20 applications with the additional members has been completed within the pandemic. With all family members, applications reach twenty-seven mainly from the United Kingdom and Switzerland, but also from the United States of America, Australia, the United Arab Emirates and Russia. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek public received only about EUR 2 million from the investments they made in the country and I have here - but obviously I cannot submit it in the Minutes, because there are names - just these twenty investors and how much money they invested in the country in the past period. But we didn't just stay there. Has Legislation 4714/2020 followed just a few months ago, a law that extended the alternative income tax now? To pensioners abroad who carry the tax home to our home country. Despite the very recent legislation, the processing and acceptance of seven applications has already been completed. Interesting is intense and it is soon estimated that it will follow a very large number of new applications. I consider the evidence in our possession to be several dozen or hundreds in the next few years. Today we are closing down the haircut of the relevant legislative interventions and introducing tax incentives for attracting foreign workers and self-employed Greeks who left the country during the economic crisis, so that they can transfer the tax home and act professionally in Greece in 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that you have discussed the articles and the attitude of your party, I would just like you to take from the Minutes - because I know that you are always interested - in the printing of how the incentives for tax residence went to the two laws that we have already voted on. I've filed specific numbers, about how many applications were accepted in the last year. In the third section, which we are voting on today, we are giving incentives, such as the exemption from income tax and the specific solidarity levy of 50% of the income earned in Greece, incentives granted to all workers who live in our country, without being subjected to restrictions such as those in other countries, such as discrimination, reference to skilled executives or not, to the qualifications of these workers or to the level of income they acquire in our country. It is thus clear that the government is working with the court of law, seriousness and insight to attract investors, pensioners, workers, human capital - I stress, human capital - to our country. So there is the second pillar of important government reform initiatives, as is unfolding in the draft law under discussion. Let's go to the third pillar. The third pillar, the third aspect, is that we are tabling and implementing a comprehensive transformation plan for the Greek Posts. And you know, this government doesn't cover problems or move them for the future. We did the same for ELVO, for the Scaramaga shipyards, for Larco, for the EAB, today, for the ELTAs. We're not going to cover up the problems we've found, but we're going to talk to the language of truth. Really, the Greek Posts where they belong? Greek Posts since 2018 belong to the Overseas of Demilitarisation. The Greek Posts passed to the Superior Treasury of Demilitions from the previous government. Because I have heard some colleagues say a little differently. Since 2018, they are owned by the Overseas Department of Privatization. I would also remind you of something else, because I have heard some colleagues say: 'Don't and close any stores in the ELTAs.' I have here the picture of what happened in the past few years. Ladies and gentlemen, between 2001 and 2019 the ELTA suspended operation in two hundred and seventy shops. In 2015-2019, the operation was suspended in seventy-five shops. And to get out 2019 - because it's not the entire period of SYRIZA - the period 2015 to 2018 the operation was suspended in over fifty. And the Civic Opposition is coming here today and says "do not at all and close a store of the ELTAs"!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u415	With an ELTA sign, Minister? With a ELTA sign or a shop in a shop?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u416	I'm always full of my answers. Twenty of them in the region were reopened as an agency, i.e. a private body. And I have been here since 2015 what shop closed in every area. Therefore, let us put aside populism, when the previous government also closed systematic branches of ELTAs. What's the plan? We have a plan to rescue the ELTAs, recover, return to functional profitability, modernise, develop new products and services, continue to carry out their work, but in terms of economic efficiency and social return. This transformation plan was accepted by the supranational administration. Last week, on 27 November - which, as far as I know, the Overseas Administration was not placed by the current government, it is from the previous government - this transformation plan was unanimously accepted, after the presentation by the ELTA Governing Council had been preceded by the introduction and, after the SIPS Governing Council, the SIPS Supervisory Board, which also reacted positively to the transformation plan. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in which the ELTAs were received was tragic. It has deteriorated with the health crisis, with the result that, together with chronic diseases - chronic diseases, not all of these have been created in recent years - inability to continue to operate. Basic reasons? The dramatic decline in the postal market without compensation for other activities, the costly service of the universal service, as well as its partial and delayed payments, the high wage costs, which cover it by my colleague - 67% of the company's revenue, the lack of capital for investment, for automation, for digitalisation, for antiquated infrastructure, for inadequate systems. The result of all this? A large reduction in revenue over the past five years, negative operating profitability and high cash deficits in recent years, at least in the last five years. Therefore, ELTAs need to be modernised, because they are doing important work. They are a basic infrastructure of the State, an important back-up communication network, the value of which has been raised by the pandemic. They, as a universal service body, ensure the service of all the regions of the country, particularly the region. It is the main point of serving thousands of citizens, as it has been heard, to pay bills, send and receive money, mail, parcels. With these priorities and in the context of finding a viable and long-term solution to the problem he inherited, the Government entrusted the Hellenic Company of Participants and Property to the Hellenic Company of Shareholders - I spoke before - both to take active measures, as well as to prepare a studied and costly transformation plan based on Europe's best practices and the country's financial potential. The Minister responsible, Mr Pierracakis, spoke of Europe's best practices. With regard to the short term, the Agency proceeded with the redesign of distribution, the enhancement of liquidity, the partial treatment of the effects of the pandemic. As for the medium-term, the government, the company and the shareholder - and take note of this - following an assessment of the alternatives, such as the possible liquidation or separation of the company into good and bad - were the alternatives, at multiple budgetary costs, which we have rejected - we have chosen the best solution which is the transformation and resolution plan, which we are discussing today. It is a project that is based on EUR 180 million in compensation for the provision of universal service costs and the provision of an increase in the share capital of EUR 100 million. It is a project based on four main axes, the rationalisation of wage costs, the exit voluntary programme, digital transformation and the introduction of new services, the reorganisation of the network and the fulfilment of the universal service obligations and, finally, the reorganisation of functions and the reduction of bureaucracy. The new legislative arrangements, which we will be voting today, enable ELTAs to exploit and recruit quickly and flexiblely qualified staff, regulate the cost of providing universal postal services and provide flexibility in procurement policy, so as to speed up the necessary investments in equipment and digital upgrades. In conclusion, the joint ministries of Finance and Digital Governance, Digital Governance and Finance, proceed to a key reform for the history of Greek Posts. A multi-purpose reform for citizens, businesses and the public. And because I have heard this too, that we are supposedly legislating to serve private sector interests and competitors, the first reactions we have taken are from the competitors. Private competitors come and say why we legislate, precisely the opposite, that is, from what you stand for, because they wanted to let the ELTAs collapse. Therefore, the private sector, the competition you say will benefit, the one we are supposed to serve, is the one that is not satisfied with the regulations that we are now bringing for a vote in the Greek Parliament. A reform aimed at global coverage, better service with new points and digital channels, new products and services, the least possible cost to the budget, the use of European funds and the creation of goodwill from the development of the company. Finally, the fourth axis, ladies and gentlemen, has been mentioned by the Parliamentary Representative of KINAL - it is also the establishment and functioning of the Responsibility Observatory. As you have seen, I have talked about four distinct reforms in different fields, which aim to tackle smuggling, attract investment, restructure problematic companies, as evidenced by the company's economic elements, and at the same time to strengthen in a coordinated manner the liquidity of two ministries in the real economy. This is how a Responsibility Observatory is set up, in order to make work more systematic, which is already being done every week, Mr President, and you were right to think about it, with the participation of the Ministries of Economic Affairs and Investment. The aim of the Observatory is generally to monitor liquidity in a more systematic manner on the market independently, as well as in relation to the credit expansion in the context of the economic support direction and the maximum possible use of financial instruments to meet the liquidity needs of enterprises. Therefore, the Observatory is responsible for the timely monitoring of liquidity on the market, whether it comes from the financial sector, which is called a credit extension, or from specific financial instruments and programmes. It is intended to submit proposals to improve liquidity-providing actions, as well as to present proposals for policy-making and measures to ensure liquidity and credit expansion. The liquidity board shall be nine-member and shall be constituted by a decision of the Minister of Finance, who shall chair the relevant observatory. By the way, though, and because I know that this always concerns you and I want to inform you, I would like to give you the almost weekly, I would describe it as an update and an analysis of how the repayable advance is directed to the real economy in every county. Mr. Kegeroglu, you will still be very happy about how much money goes to Heraklion. I would therefore like to tell you that nearly EUR 5 billion has already been made available in advance to the real economy. Tomorrow there will be another disbursement, followed by the next week with the final disbursements, the fourth repayable. I am presenting in the Minutes the analysis of all repayable advances and all special-purpose allowances, not of workers, as was the case in the first phase of pandemic. I would ask that colleagues be given one. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken to you today in addition to the excellent position of the Secretary-General and the rapporteur of the government majority for four reforms of the present government. Reforms implemented, despite the adverse conditions created by pandemic. But we don't stop here. The Ministry of Finance will continue forcefully, decisively and methodically legislative action and reform work in 2021 to be the year of significant recovery and momentum in order to achieve as soon as possible a strong, sustainable, smart and socially just growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u417	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u418	Can the Minister accept a question about the ELTAs?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u419	The procedure is closed, Mr. Katsy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u420	Can the Minister accept a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u421	If we start this process, we'll never finish. It can't be done, it's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u422	I want to ask him a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u423	Okay, fine, someone else won't. Ask a question to get this over with. Mr. Katsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u424	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u425	You only have the floor to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u426	Question, yes. Minister, I think it has been defeated in practice by the fact that you have been compensated for the universal service for the years 2013-2018, the neoliberal concept of all regulating the invisible hand of the market. From this point of view, we are actually welcoming you. But let me ask you a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u427	Mr. Katsey...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u428	I'm asking, I'm saying. Please listen to me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u429	The process is over, Mr. Katsy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u430	I'm asking him a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u431	Ask the question directly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u432	Leave the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u433	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u434	Shouldn't I make a suggestion? What do you want me to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u435	No, you don't need any suggestions now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u436	I'll go tell him in his ear then, if that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u437	We had an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u438	Let me ask the question, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u439	I've allowed you to. It doesn't exist in the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u440	After you allowed me, let me finish my proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u441	Please, the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u442	Minister, from the destiny, you seek to reduce wage costs on the basis of your so-called, and yours and the Minister of Digital Governance. Can you tell me from the proclaimed wage cost for 67% of ELTAs at the moment what you are seeking to achieve and what percentage, to see if your volunteers achieved what your goal for resolution after and completion of it? So, how much will the wage cost be reduced? Have you done a proportionate study in this regard? And one second...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u443	No, Mr. Katsy, please! Mr. Kegeroglu's up too. The procedure has been completed. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u444	I'm done. And if you can answer how much it cost and "instrued" ELTAs from the privatisation of the Post Bank, Mr. Stakoura, on your day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u445	Mr Kegeroglu, you now want the floor. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u446	I would like to ask the Minister, Mr President, one thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u447	I badly opened this circle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u448	I want to ask one thing. Why has it not been placed on the amendment we tabled concerning the reduction of the focus VAT to 6% and the residence tax?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u449	Mr. Loverdo, you told me there wouldn't be a question, you made a commitment, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u450	It's my fault!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u451	The Minister has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u452	Mr Colleagues, Parliamentary Representative of the Civilian Representation, you were given the opportunity today to be a parliamentary representative and you tried to seize this opportunity and to speak back. Any colleague who took the floor and asked for the floor. It was a unique opportunity for you today to take the floor many times, but something essential you did not say, you repeat. I am therefore telling you that the transformation plan is expected to yield over time. You tell me first of all how it will achieve a voluntary exit programme, which has not yet been implemented. We look forward to a significant participation, in order to reduce both the number of workers and have more specialised staff, which will contribute to this. So, as far as the part of your question is concerned, you tell me from now on how a voluntary programme will go that will now begin to be implemented. As far as your question is concerned, Mr Colleague, I have not been present. First of all, I rejected all the amendments tabled. I've said it since the beginning of my placement. With regard to the country's budgetary and cash possibilities and the options we make, so as to best deal with the adverse effects of the health crisis, we can unfold them with completeness and consistency. At the moment, as far as the government proposals and initiatives are concerned, what the state budget includes, which we will shortly be discussing in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u453	The debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is closed: "Summary of smuggling - Rule of the Protocol on the Elimination of Illicit Trade in Smoke, provisions on public property and commentary heritage, provisions on traffic charges and classification fees, incentives to attract tax residents". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, forty articles, four amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, as well as the hotel article and the entire bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u454	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u455	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u456	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Summary of the smuggling - Clearance of the Protocol on the Elimination of Illicit Trade in Smoke, provisions on public property and faculty heritage, provisions on traffic charges and classification fees, incentives to attract tax residents and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority on the principle, Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u457	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u458	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-02-S1-commons.u459	With the consent of the House at 19.09' the meeting for tomorrow, Thursday, December 3, 2020 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: "Only discussion and vote on the principle of articles and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Modernisation of Spatial and Urban Legislation".
