ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's 18-2-2020 authorisation, the PB's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the PB's PB's minutes of Tuesday 18 February 2020 with regard to the vote on all draft laws: 1) Delete the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Georgia on Cooperation in the Combat of Crime, 2) ‘Protocol between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the implementation of the Agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Re-entity of Persons residing without authorisation’.]] Before entering the topical and urgent debate, I have the honour of announcing to the House that all the topical questions will be discussed in accordance with the relevant document sent to us by the Secretary-General, Mr Koutnajis. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question under number 1278/15-10-2019 will be discussed with the question of the circle of petitions - questions by the MP Laconia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Accommodation of farmers' works with the insurance contributions of farmers insured under Article 40 of Law No.4387/2016'. Mr. Arachovite, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, this issue concerns too many of the people insured under Article 40 of Law No.4387, and that is why this question has been tabled since October 2019, that is, a long time ago. It has not been answered in writing, which is why we have to make it timely. Article 40 of Law No.4387 stipulates that the basis for calculating the insurance contributions to the ECA for farmers is the result of income, from the exercise of an occupation. It is added to it by 1-1-2018 and the payable insurance contributions, i.e. deducted as payable insurance contributions. The Ministerial Decision 12061/293 from 1-3-2018 states that any difference resulting from the calculation of the income-based insurance contributions should be deducted and allocated monthlyly. Therefore, according to the relevant circular, the services of the ECA must calculate annual income-based insurance contributions, as provided by the law, but also the amounts already paid through the works or otherwise by the liquidation date. The two amounts must then be compared and if a debit balance arises then the insured person must pay it, if a credit is obtained, it must be repaid and the exact way in which it must be repaid. However - and here is the important - with circular 47 of 29-10-2018 - that is a few months later - it is clarified that, after the winding-up process and the closing date for payment of the last instalment, the debts can be established in the CRL. It is therefore clear that the clearance and settlement procedure must be preceded. So because this process, Minister, has been delayed - and I am not saying that it is your responsibility, but it is a complex process that you may be telling us the reasons - has brought back the clearance procedure very much, and because there are many farmers who have paid insurance contributions and may be either debitants or creditors and are waiting for clearing, and because circular 47/2018 clearly stipulates that in no case should they be assured of debts to the CRL before the clearance procedure is completed, I would like you to reply to us whether there are cases of farmers who have already been in the CRL and what you are planning to do with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. You will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis. Mr. Brutsi, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Let me add a small addition to our conversation. The new insurance reform is currently at the stage of discussion. It is linked to your question and I will tell you why. I am going to describe the problem, as the services have shown me through your question. By 31-12-2016, for those who were insured exclusively as land workers for the whole year, provided that the charges withheld through landfill were not sufficient to repay their debts, as calculated on the basis of the amount of the insurance contribution then in force in the second insurance class - then the classes - after the liquidation of the year were mandatory to pay the remaining contributions due in June of the following year, in accordance with the provisions of Article 12 and Article 14 of Presidential Decree 78/68 of the Law on Retirement and Retirement of Farmers. For those who were insured in parallel and as self-employed, for example as farmers, the contributions withheld by construction were offset by their annual debt as self-employed, as it resulted from the liquidation of the insurance contributions each year. In IDENTI S.A. - you know this - an informational construction system has already been developed that keeps the archives of the building. This system makes the communication of issuing and redeeming entities in real time and is updated by AMKA of an employed land worker, both for the withheld insurance contributions and for the amounts of works issued for him per employer. The insurance contributions that have been retained through a ergonomie from 1-1-2017 and from now on for persons engaged exclusively as land workers have been attributed to the EVA. In addition, those persons shall be registered in parallel to the ECA’s insurance records in the capacity of the self-employed person. It is right that the ECA has sought contributions from those who have been employed since their activity was carried out in the course of the previous year. In such cases, non-employees may have been satisfied if they are unpaid. I should like to tell you about the problem of the calculation of the works contract created from 1-1-2017 after the introduction of Article 40 - you, too, referred to - of Law No.4387/16 of the Katrugalo Law and the definition of net taxable income from carrying out the activity as the basis for calculating the insurance contributions from the members of the former OGA. Consequently, the insurance contributions provided for in Article 4(1) of Law 2458/97 were abolished. This resulted from the above date and after that Article 22 of Law 3863/2010 could not be applied to the clearance of insurance contributions and the net time of insurance of the land workers. I'm staying here and I'm going to answer the rest of my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Arachovite, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u7	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u8	But we're not just talking about her clean workers here. When there is no agricultural income from activity, things are clearer. We are only talking about the contributions resulting from the 2010 article of Article 20 of Law 3863. The question refers to the persons insured under Article 42 who have a parallel income, that is to say, have an income from an agricultural activity but, at the same time, make wages, receive income, i.e. as land workers and receive an insurance contribution from them with Article 20 of Law 3863. For these people, then, an insurance contribution based on net income is calculated. At the same time, they have paid a sum through the mistress referred to in Article 20. There, as the law stipulates, a set-off must be made. In fact, I mentioned the ministerial decision clarifying it, of 12061/293, but also the clarification circular issued a few months later, which says that in order to finally calculate what these people owe if they are bankrupt or creditors, the procedure for the clearance of insurance contributions they have paid through the first-hand article 20 should be completed. The two should therefore be interlinked and the difference that will result in the balance of the insurance contribution. Since this process has not been completed, they continue to come out to these people - and good - income-based insurance contributions and are still pending the calculation of the insurance contributions paid through the bachelor. So, at some point, this should be done. The question here is, on the one hand, the obvious one where this process is and, on the other, whether there are cases where, while people could be debitants or creditors, their case could have been referred before liquidation in the CRL. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arachovitis, the issues relating to insurance and individual cases are too many. I am not now making any criticism of the past. I'll avoid it. But I would like to link the story of the bachelor in this very matter. I explained in my protology the chronological order of events. Law 3863/10 operated the system. Since the Katorugalou Act, Law No.4387, there was a blockade and could not be liquidated. This issue has also come to my services. He arrived from the world at the service, arrived at the Ministry. I saw the matter at some point because it was sliding. I have seen that the existing legislation and the ministerial decision you say cannot apply the law. There was a problem. That is why Article 38, which solves the problem, is introduced in the current legislation on insurance reform. We have created a whole provision to wind up the bachelor's room, because it was a complex issue that could not be solved by existing legislation. So, in this draft law, which is currently at the level of discussion in the committee, the issue is being resolved definitively with a new provision of law, so that the issue of computer processing can be settled and that the vote on the bachelor is taken, which was not possible with the previous law. So the solution is that and is in progress.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u11	We shouldn't go CEAO.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u12	All right, we'll find a solution. It's not a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u13	We continue with our fourth question under number 527/18-2-2018.The second question was raised in Athens, Athens, Mer25, Angeliki Adamopoulou, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: “Industries of industry “KAVALAS””. Mrs. Adamopoulos, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the very unpleasant situation experienced by the workers in the country's unique compost industry, the former 'Psosphoric Fertilizers Industry S.A.', which, as part of the privatization, was acquired in 2009 by an investment capital with sole control of the businessman Laurentiadis. After the acquisition, the business relations were transferred to the successor company of its own interests ‘ELFE S.A.’ and, after the events of 2014 and the involvement of the anti-money laundering authority, two new companies, ELLAGROLIP ABE’ and ‘PFIC LTD’, again as employees and beneficiaries of ELFE’, were engaged in industrial activities. The employees, after ultimatums, after extortion and pressure and in the fear of unemployment, signed a fixed-term loan contract in 2015 by ELFE and PFIC, while the original contracts were indefinite and reassured that the labour acquired would not be affected. In April 2016, however, the staff were invited to participate in an exit voluntary scheme that was essentially dismissal so that after the departure they would be recruited to ELLAGROLIP or PFIC and to another contractor with much more burdensome working conditions. There was no intention of re-entry from the original company, as confirmed by them after any restructuring of the company, since the company had no restructuring plan. It should be noted that the compost industry falls within the scope of a directive prohibiting contracts in the production areas and a crucial issue in this case is the well-known co-responsibility of ‘solidally and in all the companies concerned’ established by the decision of the CRL and EASA, both entities subject to your Ministry, on the ground that these companies serve the same business interests. It's actually the one company. After a year and a half of tense relationships due to these abusive and arbitrary practices, and after a victorious judicial struggle of officials signed private conventions on 1 January 2018 which provided for the transfer of workers but with the maintenance of all the rights of integers to the new company. However, the new employer is again trying to abusively abuse the institution of legal personality and in order to prevent the agreement from being recognised by another company, ‘KAVALAS’, to abolish the agreement and to buy out the workers by force them to sign individual borrowing contracts on completely different terms to the agreed ones. Indeed, they forbid workers from coming to work if they do not sign these conventions. The process of the tripartite reconciliation process between workers, employers and the Ministry was recently initiated by the federation of the staff. Unfortunately, after three meetings, the deadlock has not been lifted. So, then, the Minister asks when and how he plans to act in order to resolve this sharp problem of job precariousness which has been arousing thirty-four families in a region with high unemployment rates and, secondly, whether the Ministry is confiscating - we call on it to take a clear position - on the validity of the results of the co-responsibility checks carried out in the five companies mentioned above by the ECA and the CEC. If so, regardless of the legal course of the case, what does the Ministry intend to do at administrative and control level in relation to thesebusiness practices of the employer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis. Mr. Brutsi, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, I must tell you that this issue is not new in the Chamber. And a few days ago, I had again received a topical question from another colleague on this subject. In fact, Mr President, the question has already been answered by me to a previous topical question. I would therefore ask my colleague, firstly, to take the Minutes of that sitting because there cannot be a repetition of a procedure with the same question in time questions. Without wanting to escape, the timely question has been answered. It has been written in the Minutes all the procedure followed. I would ask the honourable Member to take the Minutes to see what I said a week ago, ten days ago on this particular subject. But I would like to add two, three things, which I think are useful in our debate. The Ministry of Labour, Mr President and ladies and gentlemen, is a Ministry with top priority in respect of labour legislation, fully respecting labour legislation! And I am a minister who has proved it in practice, through strict penalties, framework, unprecedented procedures, e-registration registers, legislation, works and not words. Because you know that in politics there are words, 'we are in favour of workers, of respecting labour legislation', but it is hollow and empty shirt. Apart from respect for labour law and the protection of workers' rights in practice, with projects, with legislative initiatives. That's the first. Secondly, you ask me whether I have confidence in the Ministry of Labour's audit mechanisms. I responded to you this: I had as Minister in 2012-2014, I had the period from 2015 to 2019 and I have today. Because the Minister is aware of the fact that he does not trust the control mechanisms. Then everything is broken up, there is no control anymore, you have no confidence in your auditing bodies, and things are led to uncontrolled situations. Of course I have faith in the services of the Ministry of Labour. Of course I trust the audit bodies. And, of course, I trust them, and I say that they are doing their job well, within the framework of the adequacy. And for the particular business or the specific businesses you are telling me, they do audits on a number of occasions. They have made repeated checks and have sometimes imposed fines and, when there is no infringement, they have not imposed them. That's the truth. For the rest, I'll answer my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Adamopoulou, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I already know that such questions have been put - and have been discussed - by other colleagues from other parties. In fact, some of the topical questions I have already seen. However, the question I asked you about the DASA and the CRL had not been raised. This is the first time I have asked this question. With regard to your confidence in the control mechanisms and the repeated controls and the respect of labour legislation, first of all, I would like to say that you have committed yourself to giving some clear answers to these colleagues and you will take a clear position on this matter. Unfortunately, there has been no such position on the part of the Ministry. You will allow me to tell you that on the third of the three tripartite meetings held on 10 February, I was also present. What I have seen, and they also confirm some documents that I will submit for the Minutes, such as the OECD Press Release, and also the publication "AGEI", was to my surprise. Because, as they confirm the press release and the press release that I will present on the Minutes, the Secretary-General has not been carrying out its duties properly, because you on the one hand say that you trust the decisions of the EPC and the CRL. So you want to say that this decision by the FBI, which stipulates that there is co-responsibility, solidarity and the full responsibility of these companies, that is, there is a transfer regime rather than borrowing, you accept it. Because the Secretary-General has not taken any position on this matter. He said this was the jurisdiction of the courts. On the one hand, it did not take a position on the transfer, and there is the decision I mentioned to you and there are judicial decisions which justify workers who say that there is a transfer regime and that the rights of workers are normally transferred on a fair basis. There is a self-evident consequence of self-evident transfer of workers and working rights in full. The Secretary-General therefore did not take a position on this. On the other hand - and unfortunately the Minutes we have received do not contain this - there are incomplete minutes only the final statements by the parties - the Secretary-General - as they confirm the press release and the publication - what he has done was to urge workers to sign these contracts in essence. So, what prompted them? To indulge in employers' extortion. In fact, to say that he did this at the third meeting. He made an eighty-eight-degree turn, while at the first two meetings he said he would accept the workers' demands, that he would examine the documents. Let us say that for a very long time thirty-four workers have been unpaid, because they are not willing to take advantage of these blackmails, they do not accept a discount on their labour rights. And the Secretary-General was, "to return people to their jobs, let them sign these conventions and then find them in the courts". We therefore believe that while the judicial decisions - and the irrevocable criminals and the first instance of the political court - have essentially justified the workers, the Ministry must take a clear position. We call on you today to commit yourself to this, to sit down, but also to what happened at these tripartite meetings. I'll testify for the minutes and the press release and the press release. The minutes of the conciliation procedure do not need to be found by the Secretary-General, as well as by the decision of the EPC and the CRL. This is essentially a process of employers' participation, on the one hand, and on the other hand, it does not pay back the excessive debt owed to the public and, on the other, it is completely alienated, with all these participating companies, by its staff, by making virtual borrowing contracts, which in fact entail very burdensome working conditions. No restructuring plan existed on the part of the company. On the other hand, she wanted, with these participating companies, to continue her productive activity, effectively violating labour legislation. We would therefore like to see a position on all of this on your part and a commitment. On Friday, the employees were here to attend the debate on Prime Minister's time. The leaders of all the parties that were placed made a reference to this matter. But the Prime Minister did not make any mention. Quiet fish! So we invite you to take a position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, too. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Of course we'll take a stand, my colleague. But things are a little different from what you say, because you put yourself on political and trade-union terms and not on the conditions to be met by someone with temper and maturity on a question which concerns life and luck of thirty-four, as you say, workers, who in fact all show the same sensitivity and interest in them and their families. No one has a surplus of sensitivity. We all have the same sensitivity to workers. But solutions are not magical. You don't press the button and apply things immediately and solve problems. He wants to try. He wants perseverance. He wants understanding. Both. He wants to try to reconcile, as the Ministry of Labour continues to do within the framework of his law. And I would like to explain to my colleague that in my prototype I answered you in the insinuation you made about the services of the Ministry of Labour. Repeat: Yes, I have confidence. The Ministry of Labour's audit mechanisms are doing their job very well, and the SEPA and the CEAO. I do not accept any comment or suggestions on the control mechanisms. If there's anything - and this is a timeless and consistent answer - to the prosecutor. The written text to me, however, with proof of the audit services. Not with hints. Proof of me to the D.A. Secondly, I have a text in my hands, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, which I consider to be unacceptable and which you are adopting. He uses expressions for my Secretary-General. In fact, not for the Secretary-General, but for the Ministry, indirectly for me, indirectly for the government. "Thirdness, corruption, violation of labour rights, unacceptable, identified by employers." What are these things? Where did you get these?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u21	I didn't identify myself with that, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u22	Adopt the announcement...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u23	Mrs. Adamopoulou, she didn't interrupt you. Let him go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u24	There is misinterpretation, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u25	Let him finish. He didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u26	I've heard you speak five minutes, spending two minutes of your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u27	I will respect you, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u28	These texts, which, in my opinion, are in your position, are unacceptable to us. I would therefore inform you of something you already know: that the Ministry of Labour, within the framework of its capacity and legislative capacity, has done and will continue to do what it can. There has already been a second reconciliation effort. You know that. And within the framework of its capabilities, which the Secretary-General, which I also trust, and which is not what this text gives it, has proved practically many years now and the consciousness of the duty to do so properly in other cases. And there are texts from other trade union organizations that actually reward this effort from the Secretary-General. So I want to tell you that for us the effort is not over. The Ministry of Labour continues and will continue in the direction of safeguarding labour rights, continuing the rights and working relations of workers and maintaining and respecting labour law. However, the issue you refer to goes beyond our own scope. And it's a matter of trying to prove it. We cannot, as a Ministry of Labour, get into the issues you mentioned, matters that go beyond the scope of the Ministry of Labour. They must know, however, that the workers that the Ministry of Labour is there, guardian of compliance with labour law. And it is good to close their ears on sirens, which disorientate them and tell them that there is a bad government or a bad ministry that doesn't want their good. On the contrary. What Minister wouldn't want there to be workers - these 30-four workers - working? What Minister of any government would not want to solve a matter? But they are not solved in this way, denounced in an unacceptable way, in texts such as this, the political leadership and the Ministry. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the question. The Ministry of Labour is there, I personally, the Secretary-General. And we will continue this reconciliation effort for the good of the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Theodoros Rusopoulos is calling for a short-day absence from abroad for Monday 24 February. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u30	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Next is the fourth timely question of the first cycle under number 507/12-2-2020, H' Vice President of Parliament and MP B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The Planning Mission of Greek Armed Forces abroad". Mrs. Sacorafa, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. I should also like to thank the Minister. It is excellent that he has decided personally to come to answer my question, since I know that there are national issues and his work is very serious and he should be at the Ministry, perhaps right now. Minister, the Greek and international press reports confirm the Greek Government's intention to send parts of the Greek Armed Forces abroad at the acceptance of such requests and to apply special agreements. In particular, there are reports of the dispatch of a Patriot missile in Saudi Arabia with the appropriate trained personnel, estimated to be about thirty-three permanent officers and officers. There is also information that, in addition to support staff, the operation of the module will also be sent an additional force for the safety of personnel and facilities. The entire mission is said to be used for defence of the Arab country and for the safety of oil plants. The expedition of a Greek force in Mali, West Africa, a former French colony, to strengthen it there of a installed French military force and the dispatch of freshmen of the Greek Navy with full command for participation in international, non-UN and NATO, a surveillance force in the Straits of Ormuz in the Persian Gulf. These missions in the event of their implementation are part of our country, Minister, in the planning of foreign forces and a direct involvement in geopolitical conflicts that are foreign to our national interests, but may also be at the expense of us. At a critical period of major reclassifications in our wider region, but also a direct threat to our country's sovereign rights, it gives rise to at least questions about the design and implementation of such missions. All these missions are not related to the actual national and constitutional purpose of the Armed Forces, i.e. ensuring the defence and territorial integrity of the country and national independence. That is why we ask you this question: if the Greek Government's intention to carry out these missions abroad is verified and whether there is a intention of a direct review of these plans. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u32	The Minister of National Defence Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos will answer. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. The first point I have to make to the honourable Member is that I do not regard myself as too far apart from the parliamentary control procedures. I consider it my duty to come here and answer the questions of colleagues concerning the competence of the Ministry of National Defence. The workload is certainly too large in the Ministry. But part of this burden is my obligation to give you answers. Coming now to the subject: As you can see, the participation of the Greek Armed Forces in missions abroad is about the issues of our obligations as members of certain alliances, of course with geopolitical reference, of course, to the possibility of having rights as members of these alliances. Because alliances and strategic relations also have rights, they also have obligations. Anyone who fulfils their obligations will also be able to claim rights. Anyone who is not so consistent with his obligations, when he tries to claim a right, will see that the climate is not as positive or, in any case, the attitude is at least neutral and indifferent as it was when it came to complying with the obligations. Therefore, these decisions, as you understand, are not only taken by means of processes within the Ministry of Defence. They are decisions that have a clear reference to the country's foreign policy. So, of course, both the President of the Government and the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs have participated in the final decision. We provide the available data and the decision is taken collectively. The Greek Armed Forces are involved in peace-keeping missions over time, as I have told you, following decisions by these competent government bodies, because they refer to foreign policy. Therefore, sending a Patriciot array. It's not a gunship. It's a setup. It's different things between them. The issue has been overshadowed here by the Government spokesman through his statements. Another question has been answered by the President of Parliament's Parliamentary Party in the House. It is available on the House website. And that's where government arguments develop. In addition, since you ask me, I would like to mention the following: the Patriot weapon system is part of a multi-dimensional media grid that together compose the country's air defence. These media are fit to ensure that any temporary absence of one of them does not have a negative impact on our airborne coverage. But this is not the case. It does not mean, in other words, that, because it was decided to send a Patriciot a series to reinforce Saudi air defence after the recent drone attack and the disasters that took place there, we are suddenly unarmed or unarmed in our air defence. Because recently another Patriciot group, which had some operational problems, was repaired and added to the country's anti-aircraft umbrella. So there is absolutely no gap in our own operational capabilities, in the availability of our air defence systems, and the country certainly does not lose its air coverage. In addition, we believe that the transition of the fate of Patriot to Saudi Arabia can also promote internationally the air and military force of our country. It is the Greek flag at stress points abroad, it participates in a protection mission, if you want, to ensure stability and peace in the region, not on an aggressive mission, and I think that the country does not lose, but gains from this action. With regard to the mission of a Greek army of Xyra in Mali, in the Sahel region, which is a region that I would say is potentially only very dangerous in terms of the development of radical, fundamentalist movements, with terrorist elements, which from the sub-Saharan African region could create even greater tensions in the troubled region, even up to northern Africa. This is where the national participation relates to two personnel of the Mississippi Army throughout this obligation, namely until May 2020, on the European Union Training Mission of the European Union. It's a European Union mission. This was approved on 13 March 2019, therefore by the previous government, and I think it is also worth mentioning that it has been approved by a restriction, that these two Missing Army personnel will not be deployed in areas with high risk, with a high risk of critical, i.e. high risk, in areas dangerous to their involvement in military operations. There's nothing else right now. Of course there are thoughts or suggestions to develop more powers, but we have not made any positive decisions on this, given the great intensity and the dangers that exist in this region. Finally in the Straits of Ormuz, another area of tension in the geopolitical field of the Middle East, we will not develop - very simply I say it to you - no surface unit of the Hellenic Navy over there, no planning, no design of an international surveillance force at the Straits of Ormuz in the Persian Gulf. And let me tell you another thing - I have explained, I think, extensively to my counterparts in NATO - the Greek ships and ships of the Hellenic Navy are so over-occupied, either by monitoring our maritime north-east and east borders as part of our immigration involvement, whether by accompanying or rather supervising Turkish vessels that are accompanied by Turkish ships and by military Turkish ships that are developing in the Eastern Mediterranean, freshmen who are supervising these ships when they are sailing, doing research here and there, that there is really no possibility of having additional available to develop here and there. It is a fry that is taking part in the exercise of the Lebanese opens right now, in the context of our naval obligations, but we do not have the opportunity to have adamant ships of our Hellenic Navy in such operations. That is what I made clear to my counterparts in NATO and I can say that it has been heard, if you like, this argument. And if we wanted to, we still have no possibility, because our ships are busy in the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean on a permanent basis and at 100% of our Navy's available capacity. The rest - if there's anything else - I'll tell my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Sacorafa, you have three minutes for your dentistry. Of course the Minister did seven minutes, so don't worry, there'll be tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much for your reply and of course I am not foolish, even though I have not been to the army, to believe that it is your decision or that it is just a decision of the Heads of Armed Forces to have this procedure and these missions, since the Government is also involved in the whole process. What I would like to say, however, is that, despite the fact that I have not been an army, you have not convinced me, because what I can tell you so far is that we are deviating from the fixed policy we have had, to send either naval forces that have fleeed to commercial ships in the framework of a UN decision, or to send medical units and personnel to their guardians, and it is the first time that we have been sending fighters outside the UN's decision-making framework, in fact with a visible risk of involvement and I would say loss. I am afraid, therefore, that the negative developments in our national interests lead us to a reflexive policy for the search for alliances to which you referred earlier. And I say reflexive, because it is obvious that this is not a plan for a genuine national strategy. We are involved in foreign conflicts and we are creating new enemies, with whom we have no reason to oppose them, and in critical times for us. Ultimately, Minister, what really is our reason for involvement in plans for military activity in Saudi Arabia? A vast country, we all know that, a country without a trace of democracy, which has been given infinite resolutions by the European Union on human rights violations, does not respect human rights in its own country, which has relations with ISIS and is conducting an aggressive, multi-annual and bloody war against Yemen, and is also involved in international planning and action against Iran. I do not want to extend to this debate on Iran. What is the reason why we are helping France in sub-Saharan Africa? France maintains military force in its former colony for the protection - it is a fact - of the French companies operating in the region, in Mali. They justify their presence there with the argument against Islamic extremists. So what is the reason why Greek soldiers should be involved in this French activity? And finally, what are the Greek freshmen in Stena Ormouz, despite the fact - which you mentioned earlier - that there will not be a continuous presence there. But why would we get involved there? In addition to international organisations, conflicts are created with countries with which there are no differences. At the same time, you will allow me to say, with the few things I can tell you, that since you are sending wells there you have been weakening the manoeuvring of the wells that remain behind the country. At the current juncture the objective of our foreign policy - you will allow me, Minister, to say that - it should be the constant development of a peaceful, multi-dimensional foreign policy and to contribute with all our powers so that we can peacefully stop hostilities at the focal points. This will help us in every respect and on the issues of refugee. But, unfortunately, our policy has, in recent years, been moving in a reverse direction, which has proved to be harmful to our national interests, so our position is becoming more and more difficult, which is why we are concerned. And we ask, Minister, a key question: is the political and military leadership surely taking over historical responsibility for the placing of Greek forces on similar missions? Does it guarantee that our country's full capacity to respond to critical circumstances is not at stake and does not weaken our defence? All of us, I imagine, are respecting the fact that the Armed Forces of the country are equipped and maintained by the Greek people's real misery at the moment, so they are equipped and maintained to meet the security and defence needs of the country and not for arrogant purposes that may be to the detriment of our national interests. To conclude, I would like you to mention one, at least, historical example where our symposia had substantial intervention in our favour at any time that is crucial to us. Not to mention the latter. From the last few years, that is, starting from the Imia and arriving at the Cyprus issue or, if you like, yesterday's incident that took place with the mission of our MPs at the NATO meeting. Historically, Mr Minister, the policy of dogma 'I follow the allies honestly and beg their support' does not prove beneficial and effective for our own interests - I would say - and let us not run ragged and panicked behind the historical context. It is time, even now, for us to develop a national strategy, for us to develop a genuine national policy with a perspective and we believe - as I believe you believe - that we all have a duty on it. Thank you, Minister. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u36	Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u37	Thank you. Trying to avoid getting involved in issues that have a purely foreign policy in the country, I will try to tell you that it is obvious that we have ideological objections to the approach of our participation in alliances, particularly that of NATO. You say it is a bad thing to be involved in alliances like that of NATO, which is a military alliance and there is no doubt about that. We say that it is not bad and that the country has to win rather than lose, of course, within the framework of the coexistence of obligations alongside rights. NATO, as an alliance, currently maintains equal distance policies in disputes between member countries of the alliance. Certainly our known differences with Turkey will not be resolved within NATO because only NATO has not foreseen structurally as an alliance of Member States that it will intervene or implement a mechanism for evaluating and applying sanctions in favour or against a country within a dispute between two countries within the alliance. That's true. However, on the other hand, it does not mean that the country does not have to gain from its active presence in such alliances. A country with active Armed Forces, such as Greece, because of its geographical fate but also the geopolitical contexts with all the security challenges of the region - and I am referring not only to the bilateral differences between Greece and Turkey - I think it has to win from its NATO membership. From now on, the view of both the government and the political leadership of the Ministry of Defence is that our participation in the peacekeeping missions of the alliances we are involved is beneficial at the level of geostrategic cooperation, as at a time when other countries - members of alliances are removed from NATO and the West, our country is being upgraded. And NATO and, therefore, I would say, the Western camp recognise the geopolitical importance of our country and the fact that it is a country - a border that should be strengthened as a border of the West. We all recognise this, and in particular our strongest allies. From there and above all, as far as Ormuz is concerned, I have clearly told you that we are not participating. In your dentistry you responded as if we were involved. However, we do not participate and do not participate because - I repeat - even if we wanted to do so, we cannot develop frigates there because we do not have one. All our available freshness is developed in the Aegean Sea or the Eastern Mediterranean, depending on the exercises we follow. We don't have anything for Ormuz. We have been asked to do so, both at NATO level and at bilateral level that we cannot send ships to Ormuz. For Mali, I told you that there are currently two Missing Army personnel employed. Of course we have been asked to go more. We are vigilant because we simply do not want to take the risk of involving them in military operations in a region with great tensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u38	Excuse me, Minister, I thought you said...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u39	Clearly there's nothing right now. Record it. I think that too many European countries, for example Denmark or Norway, have developed small powers there, helping France which has the bulk of its powers. This is all done within the alliance of the European Union, which is trying to find its steps in the development of a single defence and security policy. However, what we all have to admit is that this particular region, Sahel, is a very problematic and potentially dangerous area. It could, in other words, be transformed into a thermosaurus for exporting radicalised Islamic elements and terrorist elements. It is not as far away from us as we think and I think that there should be much more consideration as the European Union. Finally, as far as Patriot is concerned, it is developing in the context of the Saudi air defence. Saudi Arabia has asked for assistance from allied countries. And, of course, it compensates those countries that decide and send there some elements of their own air defence. Therefore, as regards the operating costs, the costs of developing and installing this system will certainly be borne by the country requesting assistance. And since there is absolutely no gap in the capabilities of our own national air defence, I think that again in the context of our good allied relations with some countries - and Saudi Arabia is a country with which we now discover common geostrategic and geopolitical interests in our wider region - I think it is a good thing. That's not what the country's missing. And as I told you, this is not an aggressive business development. It is a protection of the structures of that particular country that has the means, of course, and the financial instruments much more. You know, when some other countries develop there with their systems such as Greece, I would say that an additional degree of security is added to the protection of these structures, and I only think the country has to win from it at international geostrategic upgrade level. In general, however, we are studying and weighing all of them and with too much attention, contempt and moderation, we are trying to do our best to improve our country's position in geostrategic terms. Our country is involved in alliances, it must honour its participation in these alliances, but it is something that is increasingly recognised internationally. She's not alone. I would like to say something else and close. It cannot cope with the great security challenges of the time, being alone. In times like this, we want our allies too. Not, as some people have said, to fight with us - I oppose this scenario - but to develop these relations and interventions in the international fora so that we do not have to find ourselves in this difficult position. The question is not who will fight with us, it is about who will be charged with us, so that we cannot even risk our military involvement. That is where I think, given the great activity that has developed, we are doing quite well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, can I have the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u41	Can I ruin your grace, Madame Vice President? We're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much. Minister, you said that some expenses would be covered by the use of the Patriots we are sending to Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u43	Installation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u44	You want to tell me about what you mean about it? Are the employees' wages of the soldiers going there? What's the wage level? Are they the tenants of all this? What exactly is it? To understand and not ask you a question again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u45	I haven't brought the relevant evidence because we don't know it yet. However, whatever operating exit is required for the installation of this array for as long as anything else, it is not certain at this time that it will be covered by the Saudi side. We're not gonna pay to send a match to Saudi Arabia, obviously. Therefore, what emerges will be undertaken by them. The payroll of the Armed Forces officials is still obviously covered by the Ministry of National Defence. Because they're either here or they're wherever they're still on the payroll. Any other operational output, however, is covered by that side. That's for granted. But you will allow me in the future perhaps to enlighten you when I have the data I need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u46	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the next question, and for the time economy, I will submit to the Minutes of today's sitting the topical and urgent question report on Friday 21 February 2020. [[The above-mentioned topical and urgent question form is filed in the Minutes and reads as follows:]] ‘A. (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 511/17-2-2020 by Mr Mario Salma, Member of the Commission of the European Communities to the Minister for Health, on ‘Illegal functioning of private ambulances’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 508/13-2-2020, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Ragosi to the Minister for Civil Protection, on "Regards the possible involvement of special guards in a serious incident and the government's refusal to answer relevant questions". 3. The question by No 513/17-2-2020 of the Member of the Corfu Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Biagis to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Unless criteria, the abolition of the Lefkimi and Achilles police stations." 4. The Question No 518/17-2-20, by MP B3' South Athens, by Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Addressing the problems that have arisen in the process of retrospective pensions". 5. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Bavarian metals at the seabed of the port of Ermoupolis". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Haris Mamoulakis to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: “Enlargement of the European Investment Bank (EIB) to exploit the extent of Heraklion's "N. Kazantzakis" airport. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by Mr Andreas Poulas at number 514/17-2-2020 is a topical question by the MP Argolidas of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on "Measures to strengthen cancer patients and develop anti-cancer policy". 3. The question by No 519/17-2-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Yiannis Delis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Problems in the functioning of the "Centre of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation", based in the Argos Mountain of Regional Unity (PE) Kastoria". 4. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Renewing the suspension of building permits for high buildings south of the Acropolis'. 5. The 524/17-2-2020 topical question by MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Hussein Zebeck to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The Municipal Roadwork of the Kentavros Settlement of the Municipality of Mykes". 6. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The granting of school buildings to the Municipality of Ilio". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 3115/9-1-2020 by Mr Socrates Famelou, Vice-President of the Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition, to the Minister of Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Direct need for the adoption of the Presidential Decree of Acquisition". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 2586/13-12-2019 question by MP Kastoria of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Olympia Tyloridou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Renewation of contracts for workers necessary for the 24-hour operation of the Centre for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (KEFIAP) of the Argos Organics of Regional Unit (PES)". Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-seven students and students and three professors from the 8th Municipal School of Perama. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Welcome a lot of good progress, guys! We move to the fifth under number 517/17-2-2020 on a topical question by MP Atolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Nikolaos Papastasis to the Minister of National Defence, on "Return of additional booking 2% of the IKA to long-term volunteers". Mr. Papastasis, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, today's question is about a problem that comes from the old, which concerns members of the Armed Forces who are part of the institution of long-term volunteers. All of these in their professional courses encountered a lot of problems. In order to create these problems, those who come from the Armed Forces or are engaged in this area are well aware that these executives are not to blame. The responsibility lies with the policy followed by all governments to date. The practice of covering vacancies in the Armed Forces by means of a specific contract - because the reality is that the first long-term volunteers were hired, initially as armed five years of obligation and then as volunteers for five years of obligation in 1985 - seems to have failed. However, all governments used them purely as a cheap workforce, taking advantage of their need for a job. In their professional course, through multiple renames of their institution and through legal procedures, these people were found to be enclaved in the very institution they served. They were classified as armed five-year obligation, renamed five-year-old volunteers, later on to long-term volunteers and, finally, in 2010 as permanent long-term volunteers. Every time they tried to claim their privileges and rights as a follow-up to the institution that was part of a government decision to rename - let me express - it was 'negative' and, unfortunately, for all of them, it was starting again at the beginning. As I mentioned in my question, since 1985 for the Mississippi Army, in 1989 for the Navy and in 1990 for the Air Force, these officials have been invited to make contributions both to the IKA - ETA for their main pension and to the IKA - EKA for their supplementary pension. They were integrated into the IKA when all the other soldiers were in the public domain. When the then PASOK government decided in 2010 to permanentize them all the reservations that had been made in IKA carried them to the public sector. In other words, transfer the reservations for their main pension to the General Accounting Office of the State and for their subsidiary pension to the U.S. Participating Funds. And this is where the crook of the case begins and the affliction of these people. The share capital that comes under your general staff to you, Minister, did not recognize them as shareholders for these five years. And as a result, they were asked to pay exactly the same contributions if they wanted to get one-off aid and dividends for these five years. As for the money they paid to IKA - the EIB, however absurd it may sound, they were held by the equity funds as social resources. Minister, injustice is proud, and so is the stifling that these people feel exist. The question is simple and at the moment we are being watched with anguish in the CFPs of their units, thousands of my fellow Members. What measures are you going to take? Their money will be repaid, their double-paid contributions, yes or no? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, too. The Minister of National Defence Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos will answer. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, if this matter is considered to be topical because of the simultaneous debate on the insurance bill, then I think that from this point of view we could, in order to resolve the whole question, start a dialogue with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, so that we can see what possibilities there are. Because, obviously, this is also an insurance parameter and obviously any solution or absence of a solution so far is being found because of the obvious economic impact is also passed through a dialogue procedure with the relevant Ministry. For the record, I'd like close to what you said. Apart from the fact that my question has already been answered in December 2019, in which I mentioned that the Ministry of National Defence is aware of the submitted requests it assesses in cooperation with the general staff and that inevitably there must be cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, I say that the situation has not changed until now and I accepted in my answer that this is an issue, as we see, quite complicated, with legal and, above all, economic components. By Law 2085, therefore, the remuneration and benefits of all kinds of soldiers with a five-year obligation - PPO or PHS before being transferred to long-term volunteers - are subject to the same reservations as for permanent staff members. Under the subsequent provisions of the 2001 Act, the issue of the participation of long-term volunteers, on the one hand, with the funds and, on the other, with the special mutual fund accounts, ELAS, as you well know, the Armed Forces. For ELLAs it was arranged that the recognition should take place as a shareholder relationship of the time of their military service from their ranking until the law was published, i.e. until June 2001, provided that an additional booking of 2% was made only for the five-year period that they served as five-year volunteers. The special accounts for military, naval and aviation mutual assistance, ELO, have subsequently regulated the relevant recognition procedure. The case of the abolition of this 2% personal detention has been examined, but the general staff and the decisions of the governing committees of the ELOs concerned have been raised some objections. Differences in this regard have arisen following consideration of the economic impact of this abolition on the economic components of these operators. By law of 2010, it was envisaged, inter alia, to recognise service time for long-term volunteers as the time of actual pension service in the public, at the request of the person concerned, by insurance contributions paid to the former IKA - EDF and attributed to the State. I'm going to say three more things to close and say a few extra in my dentistry. Reservations made on the remuneration of PPPs at that time were considered not to constitute an insurance contribution but a resource for the funds. They are not an insurance contribution because they did not have a permanent relationship. This time shall be measured as a share-time, subject to the return on the equity funds of the insurance contributions paid to the EIF. This process started in 2011, has been under way so far, as it depends on the submission of relevant requests by the insured of this category of staff. It is indeed a complex matter and, of course, it has an economic impact, hence the difficulty in finding a solution. A possible repayment of these contributions means a reduction in the time of the share-holding, so we did not want that to happen, of course. However, possible legislation will result in a direct refund of already paid contributions and a loss of revenue from outstanding identification contributions. We didn't want that to happen either. Therefore, too many and very delicate balances must be observed, so that the insured, long-term volunteers, but, on the other hand, do not suffer this sudden change towards the worst and economics of the share funds and the ELOs, too. This solution must be considered together with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - without that, necessarily, it is not possible - after we see again what possibilities exist for the administrations and administrations of the share funds and of the ELOs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Papastasis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, Minister, we are in the same denominator and after your reply. You spoke about the cost of this arrangement. I think it is clear that there is no cost, because the reference is made to double-restraint money. This is where he needs a return. This money has already been taken, they are in the funds, and these people are expressing their anxiety to get that money back. The references that have been made in your reply have not actually added anything further, they are exactly what the interested parties, whom we know and who have just heard them again. The point is that the problem is not solved, there is no responsibility from the government or even from the point of view of it at the moment that everyone knows very well - and you know that - that the conditions faced today by the officials of the Armed Forces in their professional life - and also in their personal life - are eloquently difficult. Their problems are known. If you want, as a corollary, I will only mention one of these problems that the monthly or what these people take is not just enough to get it out, but from the middle of the month they are looking to find a way to survive them and their families. Some facilities provided by the service, such as the RUs or the PMUs, i.e. the military homes of officers and similar permanent officers, are subject to an unjust moratorium - and I quote this in order to show the situation where these people are - which measures the needs of these people to their extent and not to their real needs. It is understandable that the marble of this situation is paid by the low-level and low-wage, these two go together. It is particularly unfair for these people to retain money for an irrational bureaucratic malfunction and I mention this term in full knowledge of every word. I will not go far enough, just to complement the fact that these people, who are experiencing this situation in these conditions today, honour their choice collectively to claim and fight instead of individually running in political offices, as was the case in the past. Today's status has been won through their trade unions, and we urge them that today's response to this important problem for them should not stop here, continue their struggle not only for this, but also for all the problems they face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u53	Mr Colleague, I will tell you very briefly that we are certainly aware of the situation that, if the country is to have powerful Armed Forces, it must not only be cared for in order to upgrade the Armed Forces' Armed Forces' Armed Forces' systems, but it must also take care to support staff. And I think that so far during our term of office with two - three small, but I think quite symbolic moves have shown that we are also concerned about supporting at every level of staff at all levels. The question is not whether it is of a higher degree or whether it is of a lower degree, the question is to be supported. From there on it comes from the past and it is complicated, because, as I told you, it has to do with all these legal and insurance components, but it also has an economic impact component on the current situation of the share funds and the ELAs, and we cannot overlook this. What did we do? We have sought the opinion of the Legal Council of the State on this matter. This Opinion was drawn up in the light of the paper produced by the Section for Industry, Commerce, Crafts and Services, chaired by Mr Pimenta (Netherlands — Various Interests). Therefore, the active reservations of the Article referring to institutionalised resources in favour of the equity funds and of the ELAs are not of the character of a fixed insurance contribution within the meaning of which equity time may be established to those entities. He saw, among other things, the Law Council of the State. This is for me the main issue that should concern us. I just want to assure you - I also want to assure the members of the Armed Forces, I understand that there is a concern and reasonable reason for this - that there is a lot of work to be done with the Ministry's Economic and Legal Staff, with the General Staff and the administrations of the share funds. I shall inevitably put the Ministry of Labour and Social Security in this debate. The equity funds will present large financial losses from the legislation on reimbursement of the contributions paid. You say - and I have no reason to question it - that it is double-sufficient money, but there is, on the other hand, a real situation of direct financial loss, and if you like, of the equity funds to make this move. We must therefore look very seriously at this. There is also the question of the equity that is not recognised as fixed for these executives, which must also be cleared up. I think that the balance to be observed is, on the one hand, that the shareholder funds and ELA have a prospect of some operation, some viability, despite these losses. On the other hand, to give justice to this issue and to recognise these members as shareholders under the contract with the Greek State as long-term volunteers. This will be the most appropriate solution, but it must always be taken within the requirements of the institutional framework and inevitably, and once again we must say, the financial data that exist. Thank you for the intervention. All I can say now is that we have to start this dialogue between the bodies I described as soon as possible, because as you know, other recruits are being recruited to the Armed Forces. They will not be long-term volunteers, they will be short-class soldiers, possibly long-term volunteers in the future. And these issues are good for the fact that there is a complex past of legislation to be solved for the future as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much, Minister. We continue with the first question under number 520/17-2-2020 of the First Cycle of the South Athens Department of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theanos Fotou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "For six months the hosting structure for for forty minor unaccompanied unaccompanied to Gerakas will remain vacant when it comes to a thousand ninety unaccompanied refugees caught in the islands and Evros". Mrs. Fotio, you have two minutes at your disposal and you won't embarrass me, I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Minister, I am pleased that you are here today to answer my question about unaccompanied minors, because that is how it is certified by your presence that you are the Minister responsible for them, because all this time others have legislated in your place, Mr Chrysochoidis, on unaccompanied and others, had entrusted the Prime Minister with their high protection, Mrs Meridakis and Mr Doxiadis. Well, I welcome you, Minister, and I tell you that in the summer of 2018 the International Organisation for Migration began the procedures to find a building in Gerakas, in the Municipality of Pallini, in order to house forty unaccompanied minors aged between 12 and eighteen. Keep the numbers: forty, twelve to eighteen years old. Within a year the building was found, it renovated, equipped and brought all the support team, twenty-four totals - hold this number, forty children, twenty-four people - specialized to care for them, namely, social workers, psychologists, teachers, legal advisors and intermediaries, caregivers, cooks, guardians, to work on a 24-hour basis for seven days continuously and to provide children with those services of social support, legal support, access to education and culture with a view to their integration into society. For seven months after taking over your administration and duties, the building is empty. At the same time, a thousand nine hundred unaccompanied refugees are on the islands and in Evros, locked up and a hundred and fifty in detention centres, in inhumane conditions and in impoverishment. To understand that you cannot create new hosting places beyond the two thousand two hundred fifty that SYRIZA has given you, but leave the existing ones empty, I don't know what's going on with the three. Is it a plan to caging the children on the islands so that you can return them, calling them more than fifteen years as an unaged child, what you have done so that you can return them to supposedly safe countries? Is this, Minister, caging, is it an olfactory of yours, or is it impossible, in the end, to convince the local society to welcome unaccompanied refugees, after the venom you have soared in local societies before becoming a government? What of the three are they, Madame Undersecretary? And because we have not found out whether he has done anything other than tear notices the coordinating body, under the Prime Minister and Mrs. Meridakis, I ask you why you have left the structure empty, seven months now, for unaccompanied minors 12 to eighteen years old? And finally, what immediate steps will you take to transfer to hospitality structures about a thousand nine hundred unaccompanied minor candidates who are now locked in the islands and Evros, plus a hundred and fifty more children in detention centres, in total, two thousand fifty children? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much. The State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Domna Michailidou. Mrs. Michailidou, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Fotou, first you know very well that our government is not losing a timely question. So we are here because we are holding a responsible attitude and whenever there is a timely question to a relevant ministry, the Minister or State Secretary is here and he answers that question. But I see in this particular question that he sees you as very sure of the work you have done during your term of office and in the sensitive area of unaccompanied minors and migrants that we have in our country. And in that certainty, I imagine, it's because of the aggressive style of your question. However, because it is very important and essential, I do not want to turn this debate into a personal controversy. I will try to answer your questions without, obviously, being considered to be evading, since there will be a full debate on this issue in the corresponding question of your parliamentary group, which, as I understand it, will take place at the end of March at the National Representation. So, ladies and gentlemen, as well as those of us who will be following this debate that day, they will be able to know exactly what happened, but they will also see the distance between the demonstration of sensitivity to the words and the sloppiness and preoccupation of the governmental manipulations of today's Great Opposition. In your question, therefore, as to the vacancy of Gerakas in the Municipality of Pallini: The building as a hosting structure of unaccompanied minors, in which reference is made to unnecessarily delays, has rented and renovated, as you rightly said, the International Organisation for Migration, the Immigration Organisation. Renovation work was completed in February 2019. The design was the completion of the renovation actions and the operation of the specific hosting structure with funding, such as too many structures such as the Asylum and Immigration Fund. The IMO has so far not made a request for funding from the Fund. As you know - and I imagine you are well aware, given that you held this position before me - this procedure does not involve the service of our Ministry. The decision to submit a call for funding from the Fund therefore falls exclusively within the IM. So, I'm wondering, this is a part of your ignorance, is it a part of a deception, or is it part of a job? And to be quite clear and honest, I do not know what of the three would be better. With regard to the accommodation places of unaccompanied minors, efforts are being made throughout the period to create new accommodation places for unaccompanied minors, while the needs, as we all know, for the hospitality of unaccompanied minors are constantly increasing, given the increase in refugee migration flows. This is done especially after the summer of 2019 for reasons that, I dare say, are not at all irrelevant to the entire governance of the previous government. For example, in terms of places in hospitality, in June 2019, a few days, that is, before we receive power, there were a thousand hundred and sixty-three long-term accommodation places, and in January 2020 a thousand fifty-nine five hundred. What does that mean? Within seven months, an increase of 34% of our hosting places. It is worth noting that from the thousands of five hundred ninety-nine available seats, sixty-four concern semi-autonomous apartments operating by the International Organisation for Migration, by the UNHCR and UNICEF. These work with exceptional funding from the European Commission and continue to develop further jobs in semi-autonomous apartments. Last December, as I know you are aware, following a systematic effort by our Ministry, we adopted the ministerial decision setting out the supervised bodies, the minimum standards, the conditions and procedures for the selection, referral, residence and completion of the accommodation provided in semi-autonomous apartments for children, that is, between 16 and eighteen years old. In recent years, our services have been working with the responsible authority of the Fund, the Asylum and Migration Fund, to publish a call for the operation of supervised compartments under the national framework of the Fund. And I can tell you with great pleasure that the relevant invitation was published this morning. However, it should be borne in mind that, for the 2014-2020 programming period of the Fund, the funds available for actions of unaccompanied minors are now being exhausted. And they are exhausted because, on the one hand, there has been no proper design of costing the operation of the accommodation places of unaccompanied minors, but on the other hand, there has never been planning for the increasing flows and a redesign effort has been made in the implementation of the Fund. However, the responsible department of our Ministry, in the context of the implementation of the strategic plan for the hospitality and protection of unaccompanied minors and their continuous update - because we are updating our plans - draws up a relevant budget for the current period to meet the real needs, with a view to making a request to the European Commission. The request concerns not only financing actions falling within a temporary framework, but also the financing of long-term actions. Finally, I note that there is very close cooperation between our Ministry and the European Economic Area, through the EUA Grants, to create two hundred and twenty-five new posts in hosting structures. In any case, and because the issue of unaccompanied minors and migrants is complicated and requires fine manoeuvres due to the specificities of this vulnerable population group, I assure you that, with due sensitivity and attention, as you have seen, we are dealing with it and our reflexes are persuasive from the point of view of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u58	Mrs. Fotio, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u59	Madam Minister, the case of unaccompanied minor applicants is a state's obligation, it is not a question of sensitivity. Don't be sensual. No one ever invoked them. You and your Prime Minister have invoked them when you made the Coordination Committee above you and with Ms. Meridakis, who would solve the issue with charity. That's the first. Secondly, all the evidence you mentioned is false. I'm going to file the CRP data here. You have no other evidence, Madam Secretary. It's the EKRD's data and I'll put it in the Minutes to read it. I know you know them, just falsify them or advise you to falsify them. Secondly, if I understood well, seven months now that the structure is empty, it was the IM who did not apply for the AMI. Is that right? You, as State Secretary, were just seeing, watching whether IM's going to apply or not? Is that your role? So in July 2019, we delivered you, Madam Secretary, two thousand two hundred fifty positions. It is stated in the document as of 30 June 2019 of the EKKA. You'll see where all the kids are located. It's in various places, obviously, not only in the poaching that you made mention only the hospitality structures, but it was in too many structures. It's not just hospitality. Let go of the poaching. These are Mr. Brutsi's. Don't follow that road. I'm not at all aggressive. I would like to inform you of the following: two thousand two hundred fifty places. We had arranged two thousand children, not all in high quality places. We had eight hundred and twenty children's loose ends. Of these, there were two hundred sixty vacant posts to unload the eight hundred and twenty children. So simple. With the figures from the EKRD in January - which I will obviously submit on 15 January 2020, seven months later - you have arranged two thousand two thousand two hundred children, the same as us, while you have two thousand fifty children, with only three hundred vacant posts. What did you do? Trim the children, which you have to deal with if you remove the empty spaces. You tripled it. Why did that happen, Minister? We have proof of why this happened. The evidence is unfortunately the following: we have given you two thousand fifty-five, when you as the government of New Democracy - you have not now fallen into that country - you have given us a hundred and fifty positions. That's them. So now what's going on? I believe - and I said before - that you are implementing the policy of caging children, these thousands of nine hundred and fifty children trapped in the islands, because you intend to implement this law disgraceful that you have voted on and that we will insult all international and European courts. So who? The law separating children from over fifteen years of age and under fifteen years of age. Why are you doing this? Madam Secretary, we're arithmetic. You know very well that only 8.8%, that is 9% of all unaccompanied are under the age of 14, the hundred and sixty-five children. All the others will be kept locked up in the islands until you return them to so-called safe countries from which they came by declaring a basic right and an obligation of the state, namely child protection for minors.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u60	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u61	I'll be done. The Minister also spoke five and a half minutes. I have a proof, Minister, a little more than I'm saying. I'm not saying work cases. I am referring to the structure of the old man. This structure gave me this proof the other day. In a telephone call with the municipality orders, the Mayor of Pallini asked for a meeting tomorrow Friday, February 21, 2020, to discuss the issue of the start of the structure for children - be careful - look - ages six to twelve - changed the twelve to eighteen and became six to twelve, if he says something to you - and under the responsibility of a Church NGO. Therefore, it is not the IMO's fault, because at the moment the IMO will not take over the unaccompanied refugee of Pallini, but the structure of the Church, that is, the Centre for the Consensus of Palinos and Immigrants of the Church of Greece. So you changed the age of the children. First, you take the structure of the IMO, the children from the IMO who were committed to everything I said and take them to the NGO of the Church. I ask you: are you familiar with this or are you out of history, as you were seven months waiting for the IMO to make the request? Do you know that? Have you checked this NGO of the Church? You've made a lot of fuss with the NGOs. Do you know if he'll have the twenty-four staff that the IM had committed for the forty minors? We'll be here, Madam Secretary, and we'll watch it very closely.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u62	Mrs. Michailidou, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm afraid I'd need more than three hours to answer, but I'll try to be clear and quick. The same, my Ministry, my government and my resignation, Mrs Fotio, we do not know either from truths or from falsifications or from lies and I am quite clear and pertinent in this. Please don't falsify evidence. I understand that you and I have exactly the same elements in our hands. I am talking about the latest report by the European Parliament, 30 January 2020. Here we can see clearly that on 30 June 2019, that is, the date closer to the elections, the capacity in the long-term hospitality structures was a thousand and sixty-three children. Same capacity in long-term hospitality structures 31-1-2020- is a thousand five hundred and fifty-nine children. If you do math, we're talking about 34% increase. What do you do, though? Your timely question concerns permanent hospitality structures. What are you doing? False the data, bringing together long-term and short-term hospitality structures in long-term hospitality, which is the hospitality that according to the UNHCR and all child protection actors are appropriate for the hospitality of these children. It has increased in seven months by 34%. Because you ask us to keep numbers and places of hospitality, the first invitation you made through the Asylum and Immigration Fund was published in May 2017. In April 2017, the places in long-term hosting structures you had, that is one month before you took the notice and before you secured European funding from the Fund, from the national strand of European funding, that is one month before you took out the funding, you had a thousand and thirty-eight two children. As soon as you took out the funding, these kids fell to a thousand percent one. It makes me a terrible impression, how when you have funds for an action, you manage to implement it worse than you had not guaranteed this funding. This has been repeated, Miss Fotio. When was it repeated? Second invitation. The second invitation was published in December 2017 and concerned existing vacant structures. For the second time you have managed to reduce positions. Therefore, every time you issued an invitation to create structures, you were able to manage and reduce the places in which the Greek state could and hosted children who had an absolute need of hospitality. No one ever spoke of sensitivity. We talked about the absolute need and full respect from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the framework of child protection. What did we do with the invitation? In July 2019, the long-term positions in hosting structures are a thousand hundred and sixty - three. Today, they have increased by 34% - I repeat - to a thousand fifty-nine. I now have a brief speech on the committee's institution which is absolutely important. In the committee's institution - which designates Commissioners throughout the territory to protect these children - you voted for a law in 2018. If I'm not mistaken, the FEK came out in July 2018. This FEK to establish the committee's foundation with civil servants who would be subject to the National Centre for Social Solidarity, supervised by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - had too many joint ministerial decisions that had to be adopted, so that it could function which you voted and came out and was adopted in July 2018. These ministerial decisions came out a year later. In other words, you anticipate the great - and we, too, understand - the need to establish the committee's institution in our country, you are late for a year to make these ministerial decisions and you come and put them on 19-6-2019, 24-6-2019, 27-6-2019 and 5-7-2019. The most important NSA, you took it two days before the election was announced. And why is this delay important? This delay is very important, Mrs. Fotou, because from the law of 2018 it was foreseen that she would pass...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u64	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u65	Please, I have not interrupted very much. Mr President, help me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u66	Mrs. Fotou, he's right. He didn't interrupt you at all. He heard you, and not only were you aggressive, but even more so, and he heard you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u67	He's right, but he's not answering the question. He's answering another thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u68	That's what he wants to say. People will judge. Respect what he says. What can we do? Do they have to answer wherever you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u69	In the Act of 2018, Ms. Fotio, you predict that in September 2019 the committee will have come to the state side by means of an ASP notice and Mr. Lebanon knows it very well. How do you get the ministerial one year later, three months before the start? I would very much like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u70	I'll ask you that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u71	Mrs. Fotio, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u72	That's not the question!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u73	Hey, what do we do? People will judge her whether she answers or not. Respect what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u74	Once we have received, we understand - and even understand - that in the EKKA - the National Centre for Social Solidarity - no procedure had been initiated, apart from a slight extension of the committee's work. So whether our government, whether the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, namely the State Secretary for Social Welfare and Social Solidarity, has what you call "sensitivity", no, has no sensitivity. It is aware of its responsibility for both hospitality structures and for hotels which have triple costs from short-term hospitality structures, but also for the institution of the committee that we are trying to operate following a terrible and harmful delay of yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u75	Please testify to the evidence you have, because it was heard about counterfeiting. People heard it, and it's serious. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Domna - Maria Michailidou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] We continue with our second question under number 504/11-2-2020 in the first cycle of the Athens Western Sector of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nantia) Giannakopoulou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Alyto remains the building problem of the schools affected by the 19 July earthquake in the Municipality of Aigaleo". You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we are once again coming back to the problem of quake schools in western Athens and, above all, especially in Aegaleo, which, unfortunately, has remained unresolved since July 2019. So far, the resolution of the relocations of the affected schools to others has been chosen, which, as you can see, has created a great turbulence in their lives and their pupils and families. I have bothered you on this issue with a series of reports from me, both myself and other Members from other parties - and this is the truth - because it is a major issue in which, unfortunately, we do not see a specific timetable for dealing with it, one - if you like - a synergy between all the relevant ministries and all the relevant bodies. There I think - and I will focus - that there is the biggest problem. It's a matter of yours, of the Ministry of Interior to finance, it's the CIS, it's a matter of the Ministry of Development on the subject of the ESDP, it's a matter of the Ministry of Education, and it's not about anyone. Here it emerges - if you want - the major issue of the pathogen that exists in the Greek public administration and the political system. So we expect to hear from you what the Minister's plan is, what the overall plan of the government is, what a timetable there is. You know what the issues are. I am not just going to the theme of the first school or the theme of the seventh school or the 17th grade or kindergartens or even of the special school that has been transferred to the 15th grade school which also has serious problems and you realise that this is a matter that is particularly sensitive to the subject of the special school. So, Minister, you understand that this is not a solution that has been proposed, a 'normality solution', as the Prime Minister had told us in an election, that we will be in regularity. It is not a normality solution so many months later that we continue to be in temporary solutions, relocations, no specific timetable, no responsibility, but unfortunately the responsibilities are in many Ministries together and the apprenticeship community, the parent and guardian union, the parent and guardian clubs, the families of children in these schools, is not aware of what is going to happen in particular by the state. We are therefore waiting to hear what your position is, what the timetables are and to ask you to help you effectively resolve such a serious issue that affects everyday life in a difficult neighbourhood of western Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Theodoros Livanios, who will answer, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" Hall and were informed about the history of the building and how the House is organised and operated, forty-six students and three attendants of their educational sessions from the 2nd General School of Acharnon. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Lebanon, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. We have already referred to this issue in a previous timeline. Let's see things just the way they are. In fact, the question you refer to in your timely question was addressed to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Education. This had not been addressed to the Ministry of Interior. I'm saying this so there's no shadow in there that it wasn't answered by the Ministry of the Interior. The July earthquake has indeed caused a problem in sensitive areas, particularly in western Athens and the West Attica, so that a number of schools can be judged inappropriately, which could be rectified with a few simple - if you want - repair work and there were comments, in this case the four in the Municipality of Aigaleo, which need more and more attention to be given to making a proper restoration and not a measure that would jeopardise the lives of children, pupils and teachers. Therefore, in cooperation with and with all the municipalities, we have tried, where there was a request for damage from the earthquake, to finance it from the programme we have for restoring natural disasters. All other municipalities are next door in order to solve the problem as effectively as possible. In the case of Aegleau, therefore, we have the following situation: a temporary solution has indeed been provided so that schools can continue to operate, which - as is reasonable - has obviously disrupted their everyday lives because they had to be transferred to some other schools. Fortunately, the problem has been solved as one point on shifts. We're now on a morning shift that's important. The second is the definitive restoration. Unfortunately, as far as schools are concerned, we cannot in one day put on a new building, make all the restorations. They require some of these four schools and studies and specialized stasis studies mainly. The Municipality of Aigaleo has informed us that it has in fact published a notice of the studies in order for the scholars to determine the specifications and then proceed to the tender. I imagine - and according to the reference made to us by the Municipality of Aigaleo - that it will take some fifteen months to complete the projects in these four schools. This is now up to the contractor if he can speed up the work as quickly as possible. I'll come back to secondary. Unfortunately one of the schools is quite old. It's been over sixty years now, so we need to see some other solution. It is possible that a radical reconstruction will also be needed so that it does not face a similar problem in the future. Unfortunately, all this takes a year. It's not easy to solve from one day to the next. Obviously we understand all the co-responsible ministries and the problem that has been created in their own families and students since the change that has taken place. It's temporary. But it will take a year to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u79	Thank you for keeping time too. Sir with K capital. Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u80	Minister, I understand that all these issues can certainly not be resolved overnight. We have to be realistic. However, I must convey to you the very great anxiety both the parents and the students have, that a temporary solution is slowly turning into a permanent one. So you understand that on the basis of this timetable you are telling us, the new school year will come and we will still be in temporary solutions. All this if and if the timetable it says and to which the contractor who has undertaken these matters has been committed is respected. So you realise that, on the one hand, there needs to be greater coordination between all the relevant ministries. Unfortunately, it is also there that it is eaten and eaten a very serious time. You also realise that there is a great deal of responsibility for the Greek state in the prevention of specific situations. In other words, there is something that the relevant Ministry must do in synergy and coordination with the other co-legislative ministries, as well as with self-government and with all the relevant structures. It is something you must do so that we do not lead with relatively small earthquakes to such delays and to such temporary solutions that create very serious issues. So there is the question of what we are doing to deal with this phenomenon. There is also the question of what we are doing to prevent these phenomena. And because public education is a major asset that we need to support and support in every way, I would like you to tell me whether you have in the calculation for actions as a Ministry, in the next time, to see an impending school control. Let us see what the situation is, what their infrastructures are in anyway, so that we do not go back to such lengthy recovery procedures that are very badly affecting the daily lives of children and, of course, create the major issue of the safety of our children in the schools that they are studying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, too. Minister, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u82	Thank you. I would like to take this opportunity to say a few thoughts on the subject of school roofs at the moment and also on the part of the relevant ministries. As far as prevention is concerned, we obviously agree that there should be a specific programme of insight into all schools. We'll find a way of financing so that the municipalities don't charge the costs. What matters is that the CFP, too, with the possibilities it has tried to contribute. Fortunately the earthquake took place in July where schools did not work. It has helped us to become self-conscious immediately so that students and teachers are not at risk. We proceeded directly to autopsies. It moved too fast on this piece in the detection and suitability of schools. We need to take a step further, which is central to the question of school roofing. Public education is one of the state's most central obligations. This is not the issue, and we must ensure as best operating conditions as possible in schools so that it is more efficient and the environment in which students are taught. That is why we will see anyway the issue of the post-communal control of all the building schools. We will see how we can solve the problem with schools that are very old and do not have the earthquake specifications they need for the future. There must be a serious design that will have at least a decade's horizon for the detection of learning needs and actors. The data are there. We know the population of each region. We can make a projection in the future and see that in four years' time the child born today will go to preschool education. So a large package concerns both pre-school education and kindergartens. And there, immediately in cooperation with the municipalities, we must finish this matter definitively by legalising authorisation and ensuring all the specifications. We'll give another extension. This extension will be a little too long but it will be the last time that, in fact, we will not accept any compliance. We'll find a way of financing. We'll talk to the Kappa Tau obviously also with the municipalities. There will be close cooperation with both the CEDEFOP and the Development Ministry to see if schools can be funded by the NSRF. To consider even the possibility of PPPs for the building of schools. But let us see the needs of school units, see what they are old, so that we can proceed directly to a programme in the next few years, so that the necessary school infrastructure can be built to resolve this issue for at least ten or fifteen years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, too. You are the pleasure of the Bureau. We continue with the third with number 515/17-2-2020 in the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki, on the subject: "the redundancies of twenty-four contract workers in the cleanliness of the Municipality of Rethymnon" Mr. Synhronakis, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the current question concerns the twenty-four contract staff in the cleanliness of the Municipality of Rethymno, who were fired on 12-2-2020, that is eight days ago, after more than fifty months of continuous and uninterrupted work in the same service and in the same specialisation. These workers, of course, as many as thousands of their colleagues throughout Greece, after having passed the AACC, worked in the municipality with successively renewed eight-month contracts with successive extensions and provisional orders of the courts. One third of them are multiples and have very serious needs. Families, kids studying, bank debts, tax. It is clear that their dismissal creates serious economic and social problems, since, after the hostage of years, they end up on the path of unemployment. The Rethymnon City Council twice, with its unanimous decisions, had found that these workers cover genuinely sufficient needs and that following 3K recruitment, they are necessary in the service where there are very great deficiencies. Instead of recruiting the required staff, with a permanent employment relationship to meet the increasing needs of a tourist city such as Rethymnon, the municipal authority with the blessings of the governments over time and the continuous invoking of legal and constitutional stalls and obstacles resorted to the tradition of cleanliness to a contractor, spending 1,600,000 a year, almost 30% of the annual cleanliness revenues from the citizens' pocket. It employs about thirty-five people. For all these reasons, the twenty-four workers are also in the process of mobilising these days, claiming self-evident, that is, their right to stable work. Of course, in this struggle they have the support of the workers and the people of the region. Contracted workers in the cleanliness of the Municipality of Rethymno to date live throughout their minds, mockery and mockery of governments - and of the previous government of SYRIZA and yours - within the framework of a European Union strategy that recycles work, extends flexible working relations to the detriment of permanent work with full rights. You have deliberately refused recruitment for many years, all governments over the last ten to twelve years, despite the thousands of loopholes in the municipalities. You drive critical areas, such as cleaning, in full privatisation. But also the mockery of the municipal authorities who consent to the maintenance of the contractor's work hostage. Minister, for all these reasons, we ask you: what measures will you take to stop this miserable regime of constant hostage for workers by turning fixed-term contracts into indefinite, ensuring a decent wage and full-time and insurance rights. Secondly, to stop privatising cleanliness and, in general, the services of the municipalities, to make all the required recruitments of personnel with a permanent and stable employment relationship, with state funding and, of course, to respect the health and safety rules with modern means and a renewed fleet and not to charge the public with compensation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, too. The Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, Mr. Theodoros Lebanon, will answer. Mr. Undersecretary. you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Synatiakis, these are two different issues. Let's see this one and discuss as long as you want it as big as you want. In this case we have the case of officials, of the twenty-four contractors of the Municipality of Rethymnon, where they have in fact recently lost the treatment they had submitted asking for their relationship to be transformed, from time to time, into indefinite. As is well known, the Constitution prohibits any immediate conversion of a fixed-term contract into an indefinite period. There were two ways there. One was the judicial way in which there are cases of court proceedings and of unilateral court proceedings, which accept and convert contracts, and the other was an initiative that was launched - I see Mr Skourletis - the previous government, which concerns the notorious 3K declaration, which essentially gave an increased moleculation of return services officials so that they could have more chance of success in a tender for undetermined posts. The 3K was completed, the municipality of Rethymnon covered the positions it asked for with employees and there were some who had submitted I think, only an application to the municipality of Rethymno, so some of them were preceded by the molecules and they were not in the successful table. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] As you know, we have announced this and many times, once the decisions relating to final Tables 3K have been finalised, a supplementary tender will be followed, where workers will have an increased moleculosis on the basis of the experience in which these officials will be able to apply. I would point out, however, that until now the Municipality of Rethymnon has not submitted a request for additional posts for the 3K and the deadline has expired. If it is submitted, we shall exhaust all possibilities available to join the designated posts. So that can be done right now. However, I shall return to dentistry as well, I must say that the government, the New Democracy's party, has a different perception of the self-interest of local government bodies. We consider that municipalities and municipal authorities should weigh all facts and decide what is best for citizens if they want to have the service under an external company contract or want it to be carried out through the municipality's human and financial resources. That's a matter of self-government. We enable self-government to choose what it really wants, weighting the needs of the region, seasonality and a number of other factors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sorry, Minister. This vagueness in your answers does not only characterise you, but it always characterised governments when they had nothing very specific. That's why we always connect that particular to the major, we don't disconnect it, there's a dialectic relationship. So what? That your policy under the rules and directives of the European Union has the effect of thousands of workers flying the road, of having fixed-term contracts, of being held hostage. That's your ideology. Isn't that right? That's your ideology. The essence, Minister, is that all governments over time and yours, you continue this unacceptable regime of individual contracts, contractors in cleanliness. I told you how much the Municipality of Rethymnon gives for the contractors, at a cost of at least 1/3 above what if the municipality itself managed cleanliness, with its own staff. At the same time, of course, you promote a concept, a logic, this rewarding logic: 'Do you want a clean city? Pay! Put your hand in the pocket, 'to pay the contractors and not the workers. That's your policy. That's your ideology. That is why you cannot give concrete and convincing answers. You're going to do something like 3K at some point. When? Although, given the fact that this 3K has not solved issues, it is now clear that this 3K has not solved issues. He fired, fired thousands of workers. You say you will continue on the same canvas as the previous government. That's the reality. Let me tell you, what is the relationship between the contraction and the minimum staff, which is in a lasting hostage. For example, with a first estimate, which is not far from reality, when spending a year of 1.6 million euros for the contractor, the municipality with 1 million euros and multiple staff could respond to cleaning needs. When the contractor, who is one for all of Crete, has taken over ten municipalities or parts of the main municipalities and asks for oil - that is what the contract - EUR 1.7 per litre - says when on the market at the moment we are talking about is EUR 1.40 per litre, what is the cost? Is it not the public's fault? For a cracker, what they use in cleanliness, which the contractor uses twice a year, only for the municipality of Rethymnon - apart from the other municipalities I mentioned - receives EUR 108,000 when his value is at EUR 400,000 with VAT. So calculate how much the contractor gets out of the municipalities annually. Whose money is this? Is that yours? It's the citizens'. They'll put their hand in the pocket, pay for it. Minister, you are moving into the logic of the commercialization of social goods and services. You may be baptising this normality, sustainable development, SYRIZA fair, we objected to SYRIZA's 3K, with this system of moleculosis, predicting thousands of workers being fired in the municipalities. Then you all went out on the tiles. Here, where today, unfortunately, all these workers are staying without work. In the cleanliness of the Municipality of Heraklion, on the subject we are talking about, in 2015, fifty-one ITP employees were hired. With the 3K, there's only 11 left. Some left, of course, along the way, seeking employment and the other twenty - four, which is being spoken about today, are being thrown on the road. That was the 3K. In other words, they work hard, in dirt, without personal protective equipment, they owe them the entire amount in 2019 and 2020, until now as we speak for three - four months of 2019 milk. We're talking about they don't have to live their families. And you invoke the Constitution. You didn't say that in your protology, of course. I can make it up to you because you might say it in your dentistry. A while ago the Revision of the Constitution was discussed. Why did you not accept and reject the question not only you but also the other parties and SYRIZA and the Change Movement and the others - the proposal put forward by the JRC for the change of Article 103 of the Constitution to lift any constitutional ban on the conversion of contracts, contractors, in indefinite time. Why didn't you? Did someone stop you? No, it's part of your politics, your ideology. That's it. So you're all accountable to the workers. We are not doing back, Minister, from our point of view and our position for permanent and stable work for all. It's a fair and inappropriate request. That is why we call for the immediate conversion of all contracts from one year to the next, no dismissal of the contractors. Employees must not compromise. They are not compatible, they are fighting, they are claiming this right, and they also claim heavy and unhealthy. Is it possible for a cleaning worker not to have heavy and unhealthy? Where do we live? Of course, the motor fleet will also be renewed - I conclude, Mr President - of cleaning services. So, with legal terminology, Minister, matters are not solved. You have a very serious responsibility. In these policies - unfortunately - and municipalities, mayors, they agree to the same policy. Stop playing this retired ball between government and SYRIZA. We call on you, once again, not to let these workers get fired and to turn these contracts into an indefinite one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 14th Gymnasium of Peristeri. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] [[CHANGES BACK FOR CHANGING MATTER]] At this point, after welcoming, we would like to tell you guys not to give you the impression that the House today does not have many Members. It is a procedure called parliamentary scrutiny which is an important procedure for the House, where Members here come from either the province from which they are elected or of more general interest and ask questions to the relevant ministers who answer these issues of topicality. These are topical questions. This does not mean that other Members are not interested. We simply have no plenary today, and they are on other committees, where they are doing a great deal of work, because they prepare the legislation. That is why we are few today. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. To be clear: Once the ASA has taken the final tables, prepare the additional 3K. I think it's just a few weeks ago. First of all, that. Secondly, we must in that country, at some point, decide who the contractors are, who need fixed-term contracts and who need permanent staff. The fact that anyone who enters a fixed-term contract automatically has a conversion claim in indefinite time is something different. It has become misuse - if you like - of fixed-term contracts to cover permanent, permanent and permanent needs and, if necessary, cleaning is one of them. However, the infinite transformation of all the time-limits into vague ones does not find us, anyway, in agreement. Thirdly, you said about the amount the Rethymnon Municipality gives to individuals and what it gives. Will you be checking the feasibility or will we, in a municipality, if he wants to give his money in a ‘a’ or ‘b’ way? Are we going to place a government constituencies, which will catch the mayor from his ear and tell him "do this" or "do the other"? Would you like us, for example, to go to Mr Peletlidis, to the government, to say 'no, don't do that, do something else'? I am talking about a mayor, who I honor and respect and who comes from the Communist Party of Greece. Self-government is self-government. Self-government decides on the basis of the local events and municipal authorities, which are even elected by a large majority of the people, to decide what is best for their country. Sometimes, as in all things in life, they make right choices, sometimes they don't make right choices. But saying 'Why did the municipality do this' is not right. It is the municipality's obligation to defend what it considers best in the interests of the citizens who live there. I also think it is important to renew machinery - because you have raised it. There was an invitation to the previous financial programme, which was given a respected amount for the renewal and supply of new engineering equipment. This government has commissioned grants to all municipalities under the fifty thousand inhabitants - it is in two hundred and sixty-six municipalities, if I remember correctly - to get a dumper in order to use it in their services for the collection. Obviously we are also considering in the new investment programme for municipalities specific actions for the renewal of engineering equipment. The Ministry of Interior is close to the mayors, he listens to their problems and tries to find solutions to everything that the state budget has in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u91	We are now entering the debate of the first under number 522/17-2-2020 on the second time question by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skourletis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The Autonical Services of Local Government Organisations (OTA)". Here, Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, allow me a comment: you do not know how happy I am to see you talk about the work of the previous government on the 3K project machinery supplies. We're waiting to see yours, though. On this point, I come to the question I put to you today. As you know, the "CLITHENI I" Act provided for the creation of autonomous legality control services decentralised, no longer falling within the decentralised administrations, but decentralised services of the Ministry of Interior. The reason we had led to this legislation was precisely because we had identified malfunctions on the issue of the control of the legality of OTA acts, and not, of course, problems, which often emerged when the control of legality came to the fields of feasibility. This was done by the decentralised administrations, by a staff force which has not always had the capacity to do so, with projects slowing down, decisions not to judge the operation of control by the decentralised administrations to operate as a brake on OTA planning. Therefore, it was foreseen to set up these independent services, where their duties, in particular with regard to the auditor, as regards the supervisor of legality, would come from the IAC procedures so that appropriate qualifications would be available. Because, many times in the past, we have seen people who exercise legitimate control, that they are not suitable, that they come from other public services, through transfers, distractions, etc., and that results in a lot of things sticking around and there is all this problem, which I imagine is also known to you. The question, therefore, is this: While as far as we know, the process of the CSCE is concerned, while everything has been anticipated, what is happening and is not going on? Is that something that you were thinking of dismantling like a number of other provisions through the 'CLINICAL I' law? Because in this honesty you're champions. You are taking a step forward in reform that has started and would have been going on and on, but it seems that you do not appreciate and move in the opposite direction. I'm waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u93	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u94	Thank you. Allow me, because you have referred in general to the 'CLISTEN' and to your original proposal that this government, and especially the Ministry of the Interior, recognizes what has been done positively to self-government and changes what it considers to be in the wrong direction. So I personally have mentioned the contribution of the previous political leadership and the development of the citizens' register, for example, to issues which were in the right direction. On the other hand, however, there were things like the unreasonable application of the mere proportional approach to the election of the municipal councils, which created terriblely great operational problems and which, despite the series of legislative interventions we have done, continue to exist. And in this context, you are putting - and I sincerely thank you for the question - the issue of the self-employed Otta Service. First of all, let me say about restoring a historical truth, the independence of the autonomous OTA service has been established since 2010, which has not been implemented and has not been completed, by the 'CALICRATES'. The political leadership of the Ministry therefore fully agrees that self-government control should be completely independent and should be exclusively control over the lawfulness of acts and should not enter into expediency. Therefore, the Presidential Decree establishing an independent supervisory agency has been signed and is heading towards the Council of State for processing. The process of filling, as soon as the CVT is published, will automatically transfer the staff from decentralised to the new self-supervisory supervisory office. The Ministry of Interior approves forty-five legal posts which will deal exclusively with the legality of acts and which will be employed in the autonomous supervisory services, five for every decentralised administration, except for Attica, and fifteen for Attica which has the greatest burden. These forty-five lawyers will be the people who, together with the existing staff, will help to control the legality of the acts. It is important that these are legal persons who will have the necessary background and the necessary mood to proceed with their work. The head of independent supervision will be chosen, as foreseen, through APP and on the basis of an objective procedure. We are completely separating any political interference in the verification of the legality of TAs from any and all colours of state intervention. Therefore, in a short time, as soon as the Presidential Decree on the autonomous supervision service is published, we will move on to staffing and hopefully in a very short time to 'run' and to be recruited and staffed so that we can begin fully the operation and leave this essentially for a decade of transition where the Independent Authority for the Control of IOTs is provided for, but has not been implemented until now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u95	Thank you. Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, because I am well-off, I would say to you that we are late rather than never. In any case, do what you say you want to do as quickly as possible, help speed up the procedures because at least on this point there seems to be a common vision. But allow me, because you have made a comment in introductory terms, to say that on all the other issues, which have been opened up by KLITHEN I, which was a first decisive step towards democratisation and a new reform era, you are rapidly turning back. Can I report you a few? You've said a few things. You dared with a decisive move, which wanted to match the real social local links at the level of the composition of the parliaments, to dismantle and distort the simple analogue. Why? Because you are defending a personal-centred opaque administration system of municipalities that has defeated local communities. You have also reached the point where the insurance policy provided by the "KLITHENI I", the possibility of partnerships through the assignment of positions of responsibility to people from other branches in order to create major management, abolish it and say: "If you want new majorities within the municipal councils, come and collide under the mayor". So what are you blessing? The personalization of the administration of the municipalities. In fact, what about what was envisaged by this Law 4555, 'CLITHENI I', on the new rational distribution of the CFPs on the basis of modern criteria for mountainity, insularity and local peculiarities? You've all gone aside. What about the committees associated with the responsibilities involved in the first and second degrees, between the First, the Second degree and the Central Command? Where's all this going? On the contrary, you're coming back quickly. And all you care about is what it is? What you said about it before, in reply to other colleagues, is that you have a different conception of Ottawa issues. Look, local government agencies are not anonymous companies. The market can't invade here. They are social-forming institutions. They are based on the reciprocity between a relationship between the citizens and the local society and its elected elected elected representatives. So if you really want to serve such a perception, you have to turn a hundred and eighty degrees. At the moment, what you are doing is trying directly or indirectly to transfer social policy, social recompense to the private sector. In this respect, you are consistent, but in the rest you are frankly destructive.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u98	Thank you. Well, you say just proportional to self-government at the time that a elected single representative is elected. The mayor and the district mayor are elected by 50% plus 1%, but we will tell him that he will not have the city council or the regional council with him, he will not have a partnership with him, but he will have a municipal council across the street. What were you going to do? Collaborations are supposed to be. Transactions, I say. The mayor would be hostage to any municipal councillor who would like a post to provide any support. That's reform. You just wanted proportional? Go to an indirect election of mayors from the municipal councils. You left one and left the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u99	And why didn't you bring it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u100	Because we have a different perception. We believe that the mayor and the district mayor are elected and accountable to the citizens to implement the work for which they were voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u101	It's an executive organ, the mayor, it's not...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Skourlet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u103	It is an instrument that has widespread popular legitimacy and is elected by more than 50%. You said how to calculate the CAP. I also told Parliament that as a philosophy the method of calculating 'CLISTEN' is correct. But there's still no evidence. We need to set up a system for calculating the CAP which includes all the real costs that municipalities have, from rural roads to the population, not just the population. It is wrong that there should be almost exclusively the population criterion. I said this when the relevant provision was changed and the provision in the 'CALL' has been temporarily reintroduced. You know, we think self-government should have all the tools it needs to be able to do its job. We are therefore moving ahead with supervision. We're seven months in government, and we bring the bill, we bring the presidential decree to supervision. I would remind you that you voted 'CLEARED'. When you left the ministry, there was another political leadership. I did not see the same heat to promote the relevant presidential decrees. We do it and we do it in self-government. The whole range of controls that exists from all the control mechanisms, which are on self-government - and are fifteen or sixteen, so many of them have been measured by the CEDEFOP - will be collected and unified. There'll be little. There will be the Independent OTA Surveillance Service and there will also be the National Transparency Authority that will monitor operations in accordance with its legal framework. We really have a different perception. We want modern self-government with open eyes to the world, with better and quality services to citizens, by exploiting new technologies, by combating bureaucracy. That's what we're going to do, and that's what we're going to do. You will also see in the bill submitted and will be discussed in the House next week in important steps for local development. You will see problems that we are trying to resolve and concern the absorption of the projects of the NRP by the municipalities. You will see how we have found a solution to a matter of subsistence of technical services and you will see things that are done in cooperation with local government in order to achieve the real goal of developing local societies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u104	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-nine students and students and two teachers from the 2nd Kalivian Municipal School. The House welcomes you. To tell you, children, that today is a day of parliamentary scrutiny. It's a great function of the House. Members control the ministers. They are asked timely questions about issues generally affecting our country or local regions where they are elected. That is why there are not many Members today, because we do not have a plenary to have legislative work. But the other Members are in the individual Chambers of Parliament where legislation is being drafted. That's why, and don't be a disgrace, that there's not a lot of people here. We now move on to the next two and last questions: In the second under number 532/18-2-20, a topical question by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Why do you continue with the efforts of the previous government to bury traditional tsikoudia and tsipouro products?" And in the third, with number 516/17-2-2020, the second question of the F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Georgeos Lambroulis to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "The changes that have been promoted in the regime of the bulk of tsipouros and tsikoudias". As both questions deal with the same subject, they will also be discussed at the same time, without, of course, breaking the speaking time. In other words, both Members will have the time and the Minister will have twice as much time. Mr Nikolaos Papathanassis will respond to both of them. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this has a history. What does the prehistoric say? Contradictory interests are those of producers - winegrowers and traditional distilleries with those of industrialists. Industrialists are now trying to deceive, defame and sabotage traditional production methods. By lobbies they actually achieved the following. With the support of the respective department of the Ministry of Finance, a file has been prepared which says that industrial production methods are traditional, and that leads to the product called "chikudia". That's the one. I told you very briefly. The second result of the industrial lobby was Mrs Papanatsiou to legislate that the process of production distilling traditionally does not lead to a product called "tsipouro" or "tsipouro", but leads to a product called "double-day distillery". It's like distillation is a process that lasts two days. So this legislation came from nothing, it came as a result of industrial lobbying. Here comes your predecessor, Deputy Minister of Development, Mr. Papadimitriou, in 2017, and makes a ministerial decision that says that the product called "cicudi" can only be bottled. That's it. It says, however, that bottled product can only be obtained by industrialists. Others will have a bulk product, which can also be supplied to the consumer in catering centres, bars, etc., but without a name, no name, entitled ‘no name’, ‘bi-day distillation product, etc.’. It is like saying about olive oil that it will no longer be called 'oil', but it will be called 'oil-flavouring product'. It is a product of extraction of oilseeds, but it is olive oil. It is like not telling you under your name, with which you are baptized, such as the tick, baptized by a judgment of the European Court of Justice, but above all by the tradition, which has greater force than the law. Greater power than the law is tradition! And there is one story of this people and this place and they cannot by ministerial decisions and circulars abolish it. It is, therefore, as if you were not told by your name, but were called "the tecque of Evandro land of Eitolokarnania". How will you feel? That they take away you what you are as a member of society, as a member of the public life of this place. The same is true of this product. And it was assumed that the circular that your Secretary-General took is going to protect - he says - consumers. I don't understand! As soon as you say that it will not be available under the name, but will no name be available is protection or rather the reverse is done? Tell me where this circular comes from, where it is based, where it is based and why do you not take into account the European Court of Justice's decisions regarding the name? The judgment of the European Court of Justice is very clear. In the tax field, it says that it must be taxed in the form of alpha or beta. That's a matter I'm going to discuss with the Treasury. But at the same time it does not say "the two days", it says "the tick" and "the tick". And you come here to Greece - and I am not personally referring to you - and to the lobby of industrialists, Mrs Papanatsiou, who had the nerve to ask a question, and in the previous period, she legislated and removed the name of a story, captures a tradition, captures a route. I would ask you to withdraw this circular, which is totally unacceptable. And more unacceptable is the Ministerial Decision of your predecessor, which needs to be amended, as well as this legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Lambroulis has the floor. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. I think, however, that in such cases - I am not opposed to it or reproach - we should have been informed that there would be such a debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u108	If you don't agree...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u109	I didn't say I didn't agree. However, I do not think that at the last moment, when we are already in the process, we should be aware that the procedure will be of this type - I say again, and I repeat, in order not to misunderstand ourselves - that this procedure will be followed. I'm going to the object now. As you said, Mr President, the question concerns the changes made to the regime for the disposal of ticks and ticks. We are focusing our question on the decision of the Secretary-General for Trade and Consumer Protection, dated 2-1-2020, which will impose a fine of EUR 1 000 on the mass focus shops using the names "tsipouro" or "tsipouro" for the disposal of the bulk product, of the two-day distillers, i.e. wine growers with a right to distillation and of small ammoniae, which has caused the anger of vineyard growers and small distillers. The use of the specific conditions for the distillation of two-day distillation products is legally regulated and is not explicitly prohibited by the existing legislation, which is in fact invoked by the circular we are discussing. Of course, the express ban on these names on the product of the so-called 'cananas' is not, in our view, a 'true-hot'. A series of other decisions, opinions, circulars, either at European Court level, either on the opinions of the European Commission or Circulars from the AIA, etc., are followed by a series of other decisions for the disposal of ticks and ticks. So this circular comes to meet the demands and interests of the industrialists and the big merchants, who have achieved, with responsibility for the previous governments - SYRIZA, PASOK - to explicitly guarantee the names 'tsipouro' and 'tsikoudia' exclusively for their bottled products and of course want to end one and the two-day regime. Therefore, Mr President, the question to the Minister is what action he will take in order to withdraw this circular immediately and to continue to make the bulk of the tsipouro available and, respectively, the tsipoudia.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr Vice President. Minister, you have the floor for six minutes, because it is double the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, thank you. I would also like to thank Mr Kegeroglu and Mr Lambroulis for their questions. If I do not say all of what you want to hear, there are the practical questions that your party has asked, Mr Kegeroglu, just a week ago, with exactly the same subject and the same subject. I am very pleased that you started by saying that there are other ministries involved, almost accepting that our ministry is doing a job. And we'll call her the job she does. The Ministry of Development and Investment has competence and consumer protection. What does that mean? It applies the laws, ministerial decisions and circulars of all ministries, so as to protect the consumer, who is subject to our own control over the products he consumes. So I would like to say that we respect and honor traditional distillers and what we are respecting and honoring much more than what you have said is the intangible value, which all these products, which are products of the Greek land and are products of the Greek farmer and the Greek producer, who have won after great struggle the designations of origin and protected geographical indication in Europe, what guarantees the strength and work for tomorrow, the future of farmers and the future of children. So starting with, I want to read you very quickly what the circular says. The circular is followed by Ministerial Decision 91354/2017. And what does it say? It says that in the main aim of consumer protection it applies a number of laws and regulations, ministerial decisions and circulars, which start in 2001. And it says that according to the circular and according to the law and in accordance with the technical file, and in accordance with the rights that we have from the European Union for the use of that name, the bulk product must also be labelled in a specific way, the packaged product, which is produced by rules, which are written and mentioned in the technical file, can be called tick and tick. So nobody stopped the right of producers to produce, Mr Kegeroglu. They didn't stop producing. Of the fifty-thousand applications of the forty-eight thousand applications are for proprietary purposes, namely for self-consumption and of the four thousand left over, three thousand are under four hundred litres and only one thousand producers say that they have the maximum production produced in eight days, as you know, which is a thousand litres. We are therefore talking about a thousand producers, who have the benefits precisely because we want to support this traditional process of paying EUR 1.2 per litre of alcohol compared to EUR 12, which is paid when they are manufactured by distillers. And since it is important to stand up to some technical points to tell you that this all starts in 2001 with Law 2969, it continues with the Community Regulation 110/2008 which we are obliged to incorporate into Greek Law, then we have the Ministerial Decision 9135/2017, followed by Law 4583/2018 and the Circular of ASE in 2019. What we should also note is that the difference in production of the product is noted in the technical file and the product is fully controlled at the time it is manufactured, manufactured and then licensed, so that the other product, as you know, is made by the distillers to whom the State has given the right to use it and to give it directly by the law of 2018, so that they can have it directly so that they have this additional income. I therefore think that the market has been regulated and the product is available and we should stand strong and strong in our trademarks, which are the power of the farmer, the power of the Greeks and what will help us, so that we have extroverted, turn the Brain Drain, turn children back to Greece, because there will be more and better paid jobs. I'm going to go on in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Minister. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u113	Didn't you understand, my Minister, the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u114	I'll tell you in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u115	Did you not realize, my Minister, that you were criminalizing winegrowers and wine growers by continuing the same violin as the previous ones? Don't you get it? If you did not understand this and tell us that you did not understand it, you will have a reason to get rid of some of your responsibilities which are very serious. You have huge responsibilities, because I believe you understand it, you know it, but you joined the lobby and very quickly within a few months. So I ask you - and I told you I didn't make your name wrong, but does it not matter - do you want to be told from now on a child of the eunuched land of Atalokarania instead of your name? Obviously not and you protested even when I said Papanastassis, even though it's a historical name Papanastassiou and you told me Papathanassis. No, you don't have one or the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u116	Come on, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u117	That's the point. So we are told that it will no longer be called a tick, what the producer is making, that will be called a tick, that is what the industrialist is pulling out. No, sir, that's a fraud, it's a fraud. I denounced you by name the system, a law that passed a particular man, a joint ministerial decision taken by another - Papademitriou I think is called '17 - and a circular that you made to apply the previous ones. All these crimes in the series lead to a distortion. The distortion starts with the fact that the file you say and plead, which has nothing to do with the PDO and PGI process that the Ministry of Rural Development does, but they made it into the pockets of the Ministry of Finance, says it's the ones produced by the industry, that's what the file says. And we tell you that you are unacceptable to accept such a private file. And I ask your Prime Minister to come and answer us if what Eleftherios Venizelos, whom he wants to call a descendant, is a descendant of biological and gave permission to certain people to distillate homogenes, that is, the vineyards, that is, if he will come to us to abolish it? Well, let's go to the specifics. On 20 January the Government interpreted all this with the circular and you must tell us whether you are aware of the danger involved in this interpretation. You come and say: 'Free in bars and focus centres', i.e. either from Bulgaria or from other countries and regardless of where it comes from, because you do not tell us that it must come from grapes, can be made available. What protection are you talking about? On the contrary, you are protecting the interests of industrial distillers, who think they are doing something. They will soon be overwhelmed and drowned by the whiskey and the others and they think they're doing something now. Well, in this matter name has the product, it's no name. I'm asking you in particular and you're doing what you don't hear. He's got a name. Do you know - and if so, why are you ignored - that the European Commission, with its from 27-319 - is talking about a year ago - a document on the assessment of the technical dossiers of alcoholic beverages with a geographical indication, which you mentioned, says that bottling of beverages is not linked to the definition of geographical indications? In other words, the drink produced acquires the geographical indication immediately after distillation and not after packaging, as you said before. That is what the European Commission announces. How far are you going to distort it? You know, and if so, why you are ignoring the reply of the former Commissioner responsible for agriculture and rural development, Mr Hogan, to a question from the Greek Member of the government party, in which he says on the issue of bottling that all producers should in principle be free to sell a legal product on the market without undue restrictions. In this context compulsory bottling of a particular geographical indication in a restricted area may be an obstacle to the single market, since trade in alcoholic beverages is largely based on the dispatch of bulk distillate, while dissolution or bottling usually occurs near the consumer. Do you know that this is really contrary to the European Union? It is only the issue of taxation that you have referred to. Economics is another matter. We'll talk about it with the Treasury Department. In the matter of yours, which is what it is about, what it should be called - you have trademarks, a bill, Mr. Katrin, in progress...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u118	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u119	So you will have to answer us directly why you are continuing, and you see that a law has been passed by pressure, which distorts reality, dismantles tradition, and you do not go ahead with a step forward in modernising. For example, why, Mr Papathanassis, do you not say that the product that should be moved must enter some containers? So wholesale bottling can do, wholesale packaging. And even be sealed to control trafficking. Why don't you do that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u120	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u121	Wholesale packaging. In the shop, okay. The glass is not possible to drink packed. You're gonna open it. They'll put it in and drink it. But until he arrives at the store, it's a wholesale packaging. Why don't you say that? Because you have to say what name he has.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u122	Mr. Kegeroglu, you speak for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u123	And you and your industrialists can be no name. Look, this case won't stay here. And because you suggested that we were also asking a question last Thursday, and so I should not have bothered you from your duties, I would say that every Thursday is a question here to you, to the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Rural Development and Friday to the Prime Minister, to tell us whether you will continue the games that have been played in the past period and, indeed, a caramboon. Because you do it systematically and on many issues. That's unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u124	You're done, Mr. Kegeroglu. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u125	But you told the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to return, Minister, to the question of the question. We in our question raise a specific question, which has to do with this circular. Of course, it is not separate, as we say in the question, from the previous one, from the previous legislative framework, but also from any decisions taken at European Union level or at legislative level in our country. And we insist and say that, with this circular, firstly, you are questioning that the product, produced by the grape-growers, is called ticks and similar ticks, since it is necessarily renamed as a product of distillation of small distilleries, of the two days, without even specifying it. What exactly is the product? Cipuro? Tsikoudia? Fig distillate? And he goes by saying. It is a series of names that, of course, have to do with how they are produced. Secondly: the circular does not mention the legal basis from which it can be shown that the two-days do not produce the tick and tick. Third: Although over a hundred years have passed since the two-days produce tick and tick, arbitrarily added to the circular and bottling at their production stage, which means that it is directed solely at the systematic and not the two-day producers, which according to the 2001 Act is allowed and available in bulk, i.e. tick or tick. Fourthly, on the basis of the case-law of the Court of Justice, it was accepted that the spirit spirits produced from the two-day spirit distillate constitute precisely ticks and ticks. Fifth: On the basis that they constitute a distillate of steaks, grapes, tsipouro and tsikoudia, authorisations are issued to small distillers to distill their crowns, while the last distillate period 2019-2020 was completed with the issuing of distillation permits by the Greek customs for small distillers for the production of tsipouro and tsikoudia and not in general and purely distillate of small distillers. Sixth: We all know that the possibility of distilling tsipuro and tsipula from the winegrower gives him the possibility, over a hundred years ago, to strengthen, if you like, his agricultural income, which in recent years has been constantly compressed by increasing the cost of production of products, reduced prices on the product, taxes, carpeting and saying. For example, in the Municipality of Tirnavos in Larissa, the vineyard in the region comprises twenty - six thousand acres with a production of about seventy - kilograms of grapes. Of these, 11 million pounds - a place, that is - are absorbed by the Agricultural Wine Cooperative of Tyrnavos. Fifteen million pounds absorb the rest of the area's wineries and distilleries. Thus, about 2/3 of the annual production of grapes are absorbed through the production of tsipouro by the Kazaks of the Municipality of Tirnavos and also by the surrounding areas of course - Elassona, Larissa, Trikala, Karditsa, Kozani, Kastoria, Pieria, and by saying - by, of course, allowing about three hundred and eighty thousand family members of the vineyard growers to acquire an additional income that gives them a small breath of survival towards the enormous problems they face, due to both the general policy and anti-agricultural policy of governments over the years of the European Union, which leads small and medium-sized farmers, and in this case vineyard growers, to the end. The question, therefore, and also the last word, Mr President, is as follows: to withdraw the circular. That's what we're asking. Withdraw this cycle. Indeed, because I heard you call on the issues - you also raised the issue of health - you had a meeting with the farmers in the Tyrnavos region recently a few days ago. They put their opinions before me by memorials and others. And you know very well that the General Chemistry of the State itself confirms, if you like, by successive checks, that make credibility, or testify, if you like, that the product, the bulk of tsipouro - tsipudia, respectively - is a match or even better, we can say, from bottled bottles. And, of course, nothing has to do with the traditional and thick tick and the tick. There is obviously no question in their name. But from there on, and their traceability for reasons of tax or health protection, as we say, consumers. Mr President, I would like to end by repeating that we are calling, Mr Minister, for the circular to be withdrawn so that the cotton growers can have the tsipuro and tsikoudia in their unobtrusive place. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u128	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Lambroulis, in fact, after your understanding, we saw the distillers in the region and we agreed that we would discuss this so that we could find a commonly accepted solution. I am also pleased that you have referred to the fact that we have a circular that runs through some laws and some ministerial decisions. Therefore, this is also a matter of amending and changing the law and the ministerial decisions, which are concerned with Europe's directives and regulations. A different technical dossier describing the product should therefore be submitted. I would like to assure you that I will not stop talking about this with producers, because we respect and honour traditional producers. Now, Mr. Kegeroglu, I didn't want to go back to the past. You're making me come back. And since you have referred to fraud and the affiliation of industrialists to ministerial thugs and the chemistry of the state - you said so, I did not want to mention this - I want to tell you that I have no problem with being here every Thursday. Only every Thursday will you have to answer some of these questions I ask. Since you have put it for fraud, you may have to apologize to your colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u130	You are not a congressman to ask. You're Minister, and you must answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u131	I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u132	Questions are rhetorical.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, it's Minister. He is not entitled to parliamentary scrutiny.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u134	It is within the framework of parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u135	They're rhetorical, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u136	What do you mean, rhetoric? Isn't he answering and asking questions? If that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Kegeroglu, don't interrupt. You spoke more than twelve minutes. Don't talk! It is a rhetorical question, within the context of the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u138	You have referred to fraud. You can see them in the Minutes. You have therefore referred to fraud and to the fact that the industrialists have prepared a file after they have joined the Ministry of Finance. Here we have the technical file. Here's what's on the technical file. It's Law 2969/2001. Who was in the government?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u139	You don't know what you're saying, Mr. Papathanasis!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u140	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u141	You're in charge of doing a job. Get out of here!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Kegeroglu, please. That's the Minister's answer. Everyone's judged here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u143	Why don't you modify the NSA?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u144	Let the Minister answer. You asked that. No tritology is foreseen. Please, Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u145	Who are you serving?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Kegeroglu, don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u147	Who are you serving? It's a ruthless question for you! You're violating Greek legislation!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u148	The Minister's not finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u149	Are you breaking her up and coming out of it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u150	The Minister's not finished. Wait till it's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u151	Law 2969/2001. ‘Day-distillation product of small distillates. The product produced by two-day small distillers by fermentation.’
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u152	Read below. It says 'from crowns'. You don't read below.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u153	Minister of Finance's decision...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u154	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u155	They'll take your ouzo, Mr. President! They'll give it to the Turks!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u156	Look. I have answers, but I'm presiding. It doesn't. We produce our ouzo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u157	Minister of Finance Decision 2-2-2010, distilling function. Relevant control procedures and formalities. Means refer to all the characteristics of how they are characterized as "tsipouro" and at the end of bottling. Who was the Minister of Finance in 2010, who cheated and found himself with the interests of industrialists, Mr Kegeroglu?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u158	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u159	You answer us!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u160	If that's the case, why did you make a circular?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u161	Don't yell, Mr. Kegeroglu!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u162	You can't make fun of this House, sir!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Kegeroglu, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u164	Before you set that up, think where you're coming. It's the House. He's asking you. Respect parliamentarianism. You don't respect him! You don't answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u165	But let it be completed. It's not over yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u166	So I still have to say how these products were characterized. Decision of the Minister of Finance 2011, FEC 1946 production and disposal of spirit drinks. ‘The place of manufacture is the specific place indicating the geographical indication used and bottling takes place at that place’.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u167	There she is! There's the scam! You give a geographical indication where the industry is! That's the deception! That's what I told you! You've been revealed yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u168	You Cretans have defended freedom. You forget, however, that an essential element of freedom is the unforgettable expression of opinions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u169	You're locked up, Mr. Undersecretary!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u170	Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u171	I told you at first. What excuse do you have not know? Once you know, you're in on it. You know, you're in on it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u172	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu. Don't interrupt! That's the dialogue. Everybody's judged. He will be judged by the people who listen to him, and by the Cretans and the Mytilians and the Larissans.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u173	He'll take the ouzo and give it to the Turks.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u174	It's a nineteen-year-old piece of legislation. I believe that no Minister is a fraud, Mr Kegeroglu, because your reference was to the finance ministers who were in 2010 and 2011.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u175	I didn't say they were crooks. He's in the vagina. I didn't say crooks. They barely keep up with what they committed two months ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u176	I can assure you that we will continue, while you have not done so, to discuss with the small distillers so that we can find a commonly accepted solution, with consumer protection above all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been concluded here. Before entering the agenda for the legislative work, I would like to make two announcements to this House, from 20-2-2020. The Ministers for Civil Protection, Economic Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, National Defence, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy and Food, tabled on 19-2-2020 a draft law: ‘Amendment of provisions of Law 2168/1993 (A'147) on arms, ammunition, explosives, explosives and other provisions’, harmonising Greek legislation by Directive (EU) 2017/853 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending Council Directive 91/477/EEC on the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons, and introducing additional measures necessary for the implementation of European Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/2403. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics also submits its reports to the Prosecutor's requests for permission to prosecute Members of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition "Volumes of the Greeks, the one-way stations of almost two hundred years", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament of 30 students and students and three educational sessions from the 8th High School of Athens. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: "Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Montenegro Scientific and Technological Cooperation". The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. In particular, the parties of the New Democracy, SYRIZA, the Change Movement and Mera25 voted in favour and the Communist Party of Greece and the Greek Solution. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u179	The House has agreed. We are starting with Mr. Synthraki from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. The Communist Party of Greece always positively sees relations between countries and peoples, as long as the principle of equal relations, the mutual economic and social benefit, solidarity between the peoples, all of which lead to their well-being, is guaranteed. Contracts such as the one we are discussing today between Greece and Montenegro under the scope of scientific and technological cooperation, we are looking carefully at them, with the basic criterion of creating conditions that help to develop friendship and cooperation between the peoples, or whether they are agreements that serve economic interests, political pursuits or more general imperialist designs. We say this because science and technology today have made huge leaps that could improve the lives of workers, peoples around the world. Of course, capitalist reality shows the completely opposite. It inhibits the benefits and scientific achievements to reach the vast masses of the peoples of the world. People are impoverished, dying, living in unemployment, poverty, homelessness, without basic health services. While science could become a charity and an ally, defeating diseases that have previously been fatal, instead of doing all of this, life, health, technology and science are being placed in the service of profit, they are being placed in the service of activities that degrade, even degrade all sense of dignity, with the aim of making money. In addition to such conditions, people arrive to sell even their souls so they can survive. The results are not only shocking, but are mainly tragic. As long as technological and scientific discoveries serve economic interests rather than human interests, such phenomena will not only stop, but grow. The Convention we are discussing, inter alia, refers to cooperation at technological level and in research programmes, encouraging - it says - the participation of economic operators, namely the expression of entrepreneurial interest in these areas. First of all, it is hypocrisy to want cooperation in areas such as research and technology, when over time all governments drastically cut the state spending on research, when they are financed through the European Union business groups to make this research and to promote their own products, in order to make profits in the context of this infamous competitiveness. We are vertically opposed, knowing that the European Union is running research programmes on issues for growth, employment, competitiveness, the knowledge economy, for strong Europe, the modernisation of the social agenda, Europe as a global partner, namely issues relating to the core of European Union policy, policies that have led us to what our people are currently experiencing as a result of these political choices. These programmes, which are concluded between Member States, are essentially given to research fields which can generate profits either directly or in the medium or long term. Moreover, raising funds from European Union programmes does not solve the problem, as these funds are available. Apart from going to specific economic interests, they are made available to targeted actions that have been set by the European Union itself and cannot be exploited for research in different areas for the development and prosperity of the people. We often don't just read a text. We also read fine letters and what they may actually pursue such contracts. Finally, knowing that research programmes funded by NATO are being promoted, without often mentioning - only if cross-references to our specific websites, including our own university and research institutions - are financed by NATO with the participation of countries that are either members of NATO or states serving naval and imperialist targets. With all this reasoning I have developed, as a Communist Party of Greece, we are voting against this convention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u181	The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr President. Listening to my colleague from the JRC, I will say that for a week ago Western Thessaloniki has had huge problems with the scab. We've had fourteen cases of crumbs. I wonder where these came from. It may be poverty, it may be poverty, it may be a lack of money, it may be something else. But when diseases that have disappeared, like hepatitis and crust, are afflicting the entire western Thessaloniki - seven schools have already been closed - that means something very simple: let us leave Montenegro a little bit and look at our own, so we can be a little serious. I would not speak today, but I will necessarily speak, because the New Democracy repeats the exact same mistakes. I will connect Montenegro's theme to Albania, because no one in here has looked to find what Montenegro means. I mentioned Albania why? Many years ago, the New Democracy made the same mistake. It has put them within the European Union, it has given them financial resources, but it has nothing to do with Albania. Which country? The country of the drug trade, the drug dealers. When they have a president, Rama, who is one of the most famous mafia cartels, we have given him easy and comfortable access to the European Union. You'll tell me you couldn't do anything because you had taken the EOZ. That's how Mrs. Bakoyannis told me. Of course we lost AOZ then. While they signed an EEZ, after some time the Albanians "licensed us" once again with their Constitutional Court. Now what are you and Montenegro doing? Do you know what Montenegro means, Minister? It's the country of cigarette smuggling. Are you all right? As the Europeans tell you, does it also have to save cigarette smugglers well to give incentives to get into the European Union? Montenegro is the smallest population in the Balkans with just six hundred thousand eighty inhabitants. It's like Liechtenstein one thing, much bigger, of course. The smuggling of cigarettes there is their "science". It is one of the most corrupt countries in Europe. The government has been Juganovic and his family for too many years. It is a country that is the twenty-seventh NATO member, and the West has been making the wrong eyes for decades for cigarette smuggling - because mafias are winning, you and I are not winning - because they had to deceive it from Russian influence. That's it. He's working with the Italian mafia. The Italian mafia gives and gets to the area clearly. All the time boats are leaving Montenegro and going to Italy and transporting cigarettes. There were two - three cases of ours with smuggling cigarettes. A ship was caught under Crete. Go to Montenegro. I'm telling you this to understand that you probably don't know what you're legislating. You really don't know. Giganovic's friends made huge properties. The cigarette smuggling centre with a report from the Commission is located in Montenegro. The city of Bar is the hot spot of the smuggling. I visited the area a few years ago. If you go to the area, you will find whatever cigarette you want to smuggle, which is moving across Europe. All foreign chips are there. You come here today to legislate something in which you really should be opposed, because the smuggling cigarettes shared in Aristotle, Ermos and other regions of Greece come from Montenegro. What are you legislating for? I don't understand. What are you doing? Fast track legitimisations? What are you doing in this Parliament? Have you taken a condition to see her seriously? Let us say that here we have an issue, that from smuggling Greece is losing at least one billion euros. Many ministers have said so. I'm not talking about the oil you don't touch. The oil smuggling doesn't touch it. What about cigarettes are you still afraid of? You're making mistakes again. On the other hand, we also have another issue, Minister, which all sensitive left-wings have since mentioned. The Orthodox Church of Montenegro is being persecuted in Montenegro today. If Islam was being prosecuted, you'd all be in the bars here on the left. The Montenegrin Church is being persecuted by the government. Our Archbishop sent a letter of protest to the Montenegrin Prime Minister and you are coming today without any commitment from the other side to do so. You will tell me: 'What are we interested in in the Church?' We are interested in why it is the Orthodox Church, because geoculturalism is the lever of a country's foreign policy, if it really wants to succeed. I tell you because honestly there are some things that bother me in this Parliament, this selective sensitivity of charity that many people have in here. When we're talking about Islam, everyone's in the bars. When Christianity and the human rights of Christians are violated, no one speaks. I have before me the Open Doors report on the persecution of Christians. I'll testify to her in the Minutes. Nobody was interested in this because Christians are being persecuted. "Under persecution, Christianity," says the report. “In 2019, the worst year for Christians. Two hundred sixty million Christians were persecuted for their faith, thousands murdered, two thousand nine hundred eighty three were killed, three thousand seven hundred ones were imprisoned, nine thousand four hundred eighteen attacks in churches and in Christian buildings all over the world, eight Christians each day being killed on the planet, twenty three Christians are raped or harassed daily, one hundred and eighty two attacks on churches every week." One in the ten most dangerous countries, then, that Christianity is persecuted is Afghanistan. My Minister, you have filled Greece with Afghans. The others had an open border, and you have it more open now. They were open, you have them openly closed. You open them and close them like your structures. Open and close the doors. Afghanistan, which persecutes Christians and stones them daily, is a country in which we welcome its own immigrants here. In Somalia 99% of Somali citizens are Muslims. All minority religions are persecuted. In Libya, the same thing. In Pakistan, the Pakistani people are coming here, making me a course from Omonia to the center, being donated by this strange type of Antarctic - whether by high or by yachts the same thing - and this man Constantine puts them in and continuously swearing to Greece - Pakistani - and Christianity is persecuted. It has been officially mentioned by the UN as well. Nobody's talking in here. If it were for Islamics, we'd all yell. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Yesterday we had an incident in Thessaloniki, Minister. Some punks called "Free Movement" - I don't know what they're called - and they threw paints at monuments of Christian, church, Metropolis, etc. No one spoke in here. If they did it in an Islamic mosque, you'd all go out to the bars and say "Racism". The offences they're accused of, not just crimes, but they'll come out. Why don't we talk about racism, too? In the Law on Racism New Democracy include Christians. I don't understand, what are Christians in Greece? Are they the easy victims? You are a Greek-phobic government and I say it many times. Why would you, friends and friends of colleagues of the New Democracy, such offences for all religions be racist? Not selectively I can curse the god, Jesus Christ, Holy Mary, and not be persecuted. To curse Allah, poorly persecuted for racism. Why? You didn't even do that. To close, I'd like to say something. Mr. Treasury, where's he gone? I'm looking for Mr. Teddy, your Minister. Do we have a new Minister, Mrs. Bakoyannis? Is Mrs. Bakoyannis a Foreign Minister? She always says: "Let's give, give," as if her father's house would like Mrs Bakoyannis to give. "Let's give, talk." Why 'giving and giving'? Did he ask the Greek people? What is Mr. Dendias? Is he the protected Minister of New Democracy, as "NOVARTIS"? Are you protecting him? Get out and talk. Does she agree with what Mrs Bakoyannis says, yes or no? Because there are too many statements. And I'm gonna make a comparison, and I'm gonna stop here. When the Indians in America, Mr. Minister, and fellow Members of the New Democracy, - who are always a few, three, you are four anyway - wanted to make war, they took out the axe of war. For the last five days, you have taken out the axe of endemicism. You've taken out all the Paleolithic findings of the previous decades that were in favour of meditation, endemicism, retreat, took them out in front of: Bakoyannis, Rosakis, a bud in here - I don't know what it's called - Courides, everyone's in favour of the bid to give. Give what? Their own property? And today Mrs Bakoyannis goes out to "ANDENNA" to Mr Papadakis and says: "If we were to table a law on the twelve nautical miles - which is our absolute right - but if we were to submit unilaterally coordinate EEZs, we would violate international law. Christ and God bless you! This Mrs Bakoyannis was a Foreign Minister and today she said that. Would we violate international law if we safeguarded our international law and that was the Minister of Foreign Affairs? So, what are you talking about? Faithfulness! That's a pity! Also, the Greek Solution has tabled a proposal for a law on AOZ that we have tabled to you in your Government. Why don't you do it? Why don't you touch the twelve nautical miles now, shelf? I'm not telling you about EOZ, because you're fearful, but 12 nautical miles now and go to The Hague afterwards. Because if you go to The Hague with the six nautical miles, we're lost by hand anyway. We are trying in every way to show you this: You are going to Finland. Do you know what Finland means? I'll read the term. It's the covert dependence of a small country on a stronger neighbor. And what Turkey wants is constantly putting it into practice. I'll tell you one more time. This story with Turkey will be your new Imia. They did Imia the PASOK on Simitis, the new Imia will be the story with Turkey. The one with the AOZ, with the continental shelf will be your new Imia. And as for your friends, Piat and his company, he told you yesterday raw: "Participation in the Aegean Sea". Your friend Piat! Has he taken a picture with you, Minister? Did you date Mr. Piat?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u183	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u184	Well done, so you all go out together, because all the ministers if you don't get there, it's not work.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u185	Complete, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u186	No, Mr President, I'll see you here. All the ministers of the New Democracy photo with Piat and half of SYRIZA. It's this story, Piat. And he came out yesterday and what did he say? "You must take on board," he says. That's what Piat said. He said it clearly. It doesn't clear islands, islands and rocky islands in its declaration. He avoided clearing it up. Because those who know International Law and this issue, because it was one of my work at the university, know very well that there are three already: islands, islands and rocky islands. He avoided diligently. He said: 'Another rock island, another island'. I'm telling you this to collect those who talk a lot. They don't give anything out of their property. They don't give anything from their father's estate. They offer the property of the Greek people. If you're not able, you can go to elections and ask for a new mandate to go to The Hague, or you'll go to a new Imia. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And by closing, to say about "NOVARTIS" that gentlemen, the protected witnesses cease to be protected witnesses when they are hidden. The protector can't be hiding all the time. He was summoned one, he was summoned two, he was summoned three, so it's time for you gentlemen to remove the hoods, drag them here to tell us if they were lying or truth. Because the protected person when he is hiding himself and does not accept what democracy says cannot be protected. We'll get them out of bed so we can see who wants to cover up the scandal or who doesn't want the truth to come out. In conclusion, I would like to say that this pragmatism with NOVARTIS would not exist if New Democracy were to listen to our proposal in the Constitutional Review. All cases go straight to the judge. No relationship between the House to be tried. The Members of Parliament have now become judges. Christ and God bless you! There's no way this is happening in any country. It's not serious. Because there was no conclusion to any examination or pre-examination. If you want not to make a conclusion again, you will continue the same pragmy. And I repeat: the resurgence of all these two, three, four, drag them to justice to us, which ultimately happened with Novartis. Because a protected witness hidden from the Greek Parliament and justice cannot be protected. It's over and out. We don't play with democracy like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u187	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President. Let me just read to clarify the subject of today's debate. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Montenegro, of scientific and technological cooperation’. You know respect for the institutions is also demonstrated by respect for the rules and the issues that we are discussing. When we go to the Step and do not talk about the substance of the matter, it is like not respecting the institutions themselves. All I want to say about foreign policy is that we are not making foreign policy with the cries. Foreign policy wants responsibility, consistency and very much attention. That is what the New Democracy Government is doing, and I would like it to be done by the whole political world. So I do not first understand what the Greek solution is as far as this agreement is concerned. I heard something about cigarette smuggling. On the substance of the agreement, however, I have listened very carefully to both the President of the Greek Solution and its special speaker in the committee. You said we were going to fund the Montenegrins. If you read the special report simply, you would see that we are funding Greek institutions, Greek research centres and even Greek companies. The objection of the JRC, although I ideologically disagree with this, that companies can also be financed, I understand it. We believe, however, that a very large part of the research is carried out by the private sector, by businesses, not only in Greece, but throughout the world, and we must respond to this reality. So the KIC's attitude can be understood. Colleagues, I have not even understood what your position is. I want you all to bear in mind that we are talking about a research agreement between two states in a nearby geographical region. The Balkan state is Montenegro. We do not solve all the issues of research in this country with this transnational agreement, but precisely because it is in our neighbourhood is a country that is strategically important for our country. The aim should be to see how we can extend international agreements to a bilateral level with other countries, both in the Balkans and with countries like the United States. Indeed, Mr Tsipras, we have also told the committee that we are signing an agreement in March with the United States on research and development issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u189	It was starting beforehand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u190	He hadn't started before. You can see this and the contacts you have with the United States. It started in the strategic dialogue in November 2019. That government was first set up. I visited Washington with both the head of the White House technology, Mr Kratsio, and the respective Secretariat-General for Research and Technology in Maryland, we discussed it for the first time. So he had never been discussed before. We're closing the deal. We're signing it right now. In this case, I think it is important that a large majority of Parliament's different parties have been achieved. I cannot understand the attitude of the Greek Solution. I understand that we may not resolve all issues in bilateral relations with Montenegro, but I think it is an important step towards consolidating the friendly relations between the two countries of cooperation and solidarity that will improve bilateral relations. It is a very good initiative, and that is why we support it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u193	Why are you asking for a reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u194	We were recommended by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u195	You're an institution. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Article 68 there is no reproach contained in the Minister's hybrid declaration, firstly. The second case is that the contents of your speech are altered. There's no such thing as that. He made a review of you getting out of this. I don't think there's any staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u196	The President speaks of any matter he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u197	Under the Rules of Procedure you are not right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u198	I'm used to it. Customs law. Are we changing it now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u199	You say why the parliamentary representative is not speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u200	Is what we're talking about customarily? It's true. Let's not just change it for the Greek solution. The President is used to talk about other matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u201	Listen. The party presidents are speaking. But you have asked why the parliamentary representative did not take the floor. You should have gone ahead and said that. I don't think it's worth it. They're all gonna ask for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u203	Please, just for a minute. But not as an answer to the Minister, but as a complement to what you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u204	For my part, I have read the title of today's debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u205	But you didn't say anything about smuggling cigarettes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u206	Not in private. There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, I would like the floor for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u208	Why? You have no objection to anything. Not provided. He didn't say anything. They'll all ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u209	Only for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u210	Okay. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u211	The strategic dialogue has officially started since 2018. It had been practically started since 2017. There was a great deal of vendal issues within which the technology issue. What is reflected in every phase of the strategic dialogue needs its time. And technology had started before. Ask your counterparts in the United States too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Villard, you have the floor for a minute. From your position, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u213	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u214	In the end. You may need to answer others. Mr. Villard, please. The president spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u215	In the position of the parliamentary representative, I have spoken, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u216	Here we voted at the outset that we agreed and there was no objection. That only the adversaries will speak. Now we're breaking the Rules of Procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u217	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u218	Mr. Villarddo, if you want a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u219	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u220	Good. Resign. We are creating precedents, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u221	You do not apply the Rules of Procedure. I have complained to the President of this House too. Only to us are you applying the Rules of Procedure. Not you. All the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u222	Don't say that. Neither the President nor the Vice-Presidents. You're wrong with us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u223	We come here every day. The rest of them are in their villages.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u224	That's another matter. Everybody's judged.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, I would like the floor for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u226	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u227	I would like to say to the Qualified Opposition that I am very pleased to hear you agree with the initiative we have taken. So when we bring about ratification of the agreement with the United States, which we managed to sign, we believe that you will support it too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u228	The debate on the principle and articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment is closed: "Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Montenegro Scientific and Technological Cooperation". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, the first article, the second article, the hotel article, and the entire bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u229	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u230	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u231	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Definition of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Montenegro for Scientific and Technological Cooperation’ was accepted by a majority in principle, under Articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u232	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u233	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Wednesday 4 December 2019, Thursday 5 December 2019, Friday 6 December 2019, Monday 9 December 2019, Tuesday 10 December 2019, Wednesday 11 December 2019, Thursday 12 December 2019 and Friday 13 December 2019 have been distributed and the House is asking whether they are validated.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u234	The minutes of Wednesday 4 December 2019, Thursday 5 December 2019, Friday 6 December 2019, Monday 9 December 2019, Tuesday 10 December 2019, Wednesday 11 December 2019, Thursday 12 December 2019 and Friday 13 December 2019 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-20-S1-commons.u235	With the consent of the House at 13.12 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, February 21, 2020, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
