ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 13-7-2020, the minutes of its PRACTICAL meeting, 13-7-2020, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance: ‘Accelerating and simplifying the strengthening of audiovisual works, strengthening digital governance and other provisions’.]] Before entering the agenda, I would like to inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Wednesday 15 July 2020. A. FURTHER QUESTIONS (Article 130(1)) 2 and 3 and 132 paragraph. PRESIDENT. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for 1. The question under number 929/13-7-2020 by MP Ahas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Markos to the Minister of Justice, on "References to Justice by the Minister of Development Adonnis Georgiadis". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 911/10-7-2020 topical question of the Evangelia Lykoulis movement to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Serious problems of subsistence and aged material for the fire services of Larissa". 3. The question under number 924/13-7-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Removal of a teaching service from an educational school due to threatened pregnancy". 4. The question by number 912/10-7-2020, raised by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Vassiliou Villiardou, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject of the European Supreme Court ruling on damages from the 'Diselgate' scandal. 5. Under number 915/12-7-2020, a topical question by Piraeus II Piraeus, Mr. Fotinis Bakadammas, Minister for Maritime Affairs and the Island Policy, on the subject: "In the Peeraikos continues the mess despite the temporary order to suspend works from S.A.". B. QUESTIONS second-round QUESTIONS (Article 130 paragraphs). 2 and 3 and 132 paragraph. PRESIDENT. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for 1. Question No 932/13-7-2020 by Mr Kegeroglou on the subject: 'What are the measures taken by the Government to prevent further collapse of the olive oil market?' 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 925/13-7-2020 of the F' Vice President of Parliament and Member of the Greek Communist Party, George Lambroulis, to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Direct payment of the gains received by the workers of the Private Educational Instructors of Nea Ziridis and the safeguarding of their rights". 3. The question by No 922/13-7-2020 was raised by MP B2' West Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Simulation of twenty-six workers in the Municipality of Agia Varvaras". We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote at the outset, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Company governance of public limited companies, modern capital market, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2017/828 of the European Parliament and of the Council, measures to implement Regulation (EU) 2017/1131 and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 9 July 2020 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. Before giving the floor to the rapporteur of the New Democracy Mr Kedicoglou, I would like to make a statement to this House: "The Ministers for Development and Investment, Economic, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, State Ministers, as well as the Deputy Minister for Culture and Sport, tabled a draft law on 13-7-2020: "Supervisory Unit for Markets, Regulatory of Economic Activities, Responsibility for Trade, Fines for the Trade and Trade of Miscellaneous/false Products, Arrangement on Issues on Industry, Private Investment, Public and Private Partnerships, Research, Innovation and the Economic Chamber of Greece and other provisions". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. I would ask the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Kedicoglou, to open up the electronic system for the registration of speakers, which will be open until the end of the speech of the first two rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. This draft law aims to modernise the functioning of listed public limited companies, in terms of transparency the interests of shareholders - especially small shareholders - and to make the Athens Stock Exchange more attractive to international and institutional investors. The need for modernisation is imperative. In view of the fact that the framework that has been in place so far is almost two decades old, with little legislative intervention in the medium term, this is a very urgent need. Since 2002, when the previous law dates, too much has changed in international financial markets. New trends, new practices, new products, and the prospect of unification of the European financial markets. We must realise that there is an informal but very substantial competition between the financial markets today. The funds of international and institutional investment bodies, which have specific criteria for their orientation, mainly with the criteria for the reliability and transparency of transactions. The determining factor of the reservations of international investors is the experience of the stock exchange scandals that have erupted in recent years. The examples of many worldwide, but unfortunately also of us. The cases of FOLLI FOLLIE and CRETA FARM cost not only investors - and especially small investors - who lost their money, but those cases have hit the credibility and validity of our stock exchange. It is our duty to restore its prestige, to regain credibility, by establishing transparency conditions, safeguards, audit procedures. In other words, adopting the most recognised international standards. But what is corporate governance? It is a set of rules applicable to public limited companies and regulate the functioning of the board of directors in relation to the shareholders of the company. Corporate governance seeks the responsible organisation, operation, management and control of a company, with the aim of increasing its value and protecting the legitimate interests of all its shareholders, but mainly of minority shareholders vis-à-vis large shareholders. The corporate governance rules shall define the way in which corporate objectives are achieved, establish corporate risk monitoring and assessment systems, and ensure transparency of management activities towards shareholders. The general philosophy of corporate governance is to take decisions by as many persons as possible and to function democratically as possible on the board of an undertaking. Corporate governance shows the degree of seriousness of each company and whether it respects its shareholders. This draft law contains provisions aimed at more effective and transparent corporate governance of public limited companies, while adapting the existing framework for the operation of the capital market to the newest Greek and European data and strengthening its competitiveness. In addition, the draft law contributes to the protection of shareholders and investors, attracting international investors and facilitating the creation of flexible forms of alternative investment organisations, so that, among other things, an incentive to invest in newly created companies is given to the newest Greek startups. The main points of the bill are as follows. In the first part, we have provisions for corporate governance. Companies shall have a policy of suitability for the members of the Management Board, approved by its Board of Directors and shall, as a minimum, include the principles relating to the selection and replacement of members of the Board of Directors and the criteria for assessing the suitability of members. Among the responsibilities of the Governing Council, the Board is to oversee the implementation of the corporate governance system that companies are required to implement. In addition, the Governing Council shall ensure the effective functioning of the internal audit system and the independence of its functions. The Management Board shall be composed of executive, non-executive and independent non-executive members. The responsibilities and the scope of responsibility of executive and non-executive members are defined and specified, in detail, the cases of a dependency relationship. The President of the Management Board shall be appointed a non-executive member. If an executive member is appointed, the Vice-President shall be a non-executive member. In addition to the audit committee already provided for in the 2017 Act, two new committees, i.e. the remuneration committee and the nomination committee, are introduced. The task of the remuneration committee is to effectively satisfy the requirements of the Company Law on the formation and control of the company's remuneration policy, while the work of the Jurisdiction Committee is to formulate and submit proposals to the Governing Council for the selection of persons as members, in application of the suitability policy. The powers of the two committees may be entrusted to a committee. Companies are required to have rules of operation, the minimum content of which is reflected in the draft law. A summary of the operating regulation should be published on the website of the companies. The issues of organisational structure of the internal audit unit of companies, which is an independent organisational unit within companies, are defined and aimed at monitoring and improving functions and policies regarding the internal control system. In addition to the organisational issues of the unit, its responsibilities and the obligation of its head to attend the general meetings of the shareholders are laid down as a minimum. Companies must apply a corporate governance code, which will be drafted by an acquaintance of unknown prestige. Provisions setting out the transparency, timely and complete information obligations for the shareholders of the companies, with a view to the election of members of the board of directors, shall be introduced. Companies must have a unit of shareholders' service, which is responsible for the direct, accurate and equitable information of the shareholders, as well as their support for the exercise of their rights. The obligation to operate a company communication unit is introduced and its powers are provided for in order to provide information to shareholders and the investors in accordance with the applicable legislation. There are more specific conditions for increasing the company's share capital by paying cash to change the use of capital raised by it, as well as conditions for the transfer of assets representing 51% or more of the total value of the company's assets. Finally, the supervisory competence of the Securities and Markets Committee is determined, and the threatened sanctions for infringements of the provisions of the draft law relating to corporate governance are put in place. In the second part, for the modern capital market, issues are regulated for the establishment, licensing, operation and disposal of alternative investment funds. The aim of the arrangements, as part of the development of the Greek economy and strengthening of entrepreneurship, is to establish and operate these agencies in Greece, in the form of mutual funds, according to the standards of other Member States of the European Union. The legislative framework on the requirements for the publication of a card, in cases of public securities supply or when securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market is reformed. The third part concerns matters relating to the organisation and functioning of the Securities and Markets Committee and includes arrangements concerning the functioning of the Securities and Markets Committee, with the composition of the members more importantly. In the fourth part, the time for payment of the income tax instalments is regulated, the tax deduction in the one-off payment by natural persons and the instalments of HNVIA are increased from five to six. At this point I would also like to make a proposal to the Minister, because the changes made are important, but the capital markets are a sector which is changing rapidly and I think it would be useful for us to have a reassessment of the law every two years at the hearing of the institutions. I think that the experience of hearing the bodies in the committee has been very useful and good to see in two years' time from implementing how it is progressing and what improvements, if any, could be made. Mr President, the amendments we have been given to refer to now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u4	Will the ministers develop them first? But if you're ready, you can already report.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u5	I do not know that, but we have already all been informed about the amendments, so I shall say a few words. It is the subject of the first amendment. Article 1 provides, under conditions, the possibility for specific categories of main tourist accommodation to place underwater pipelines and cables necessary for the implementation of projects serving their operation and all this with full respect for environmental legislation. Article 2 solves chronic problems of ambiguity as to the regime for the management and exploitation of property owned by the OSE, located in a land port area, but there is an ambiguity as to whether GAIAOSE has a reason. This solution should facilitate the use of these ports. The regulation in Article 3 regulates issues of special winding-up of public undertakings so that special winding-up procedures can continue for reasons of overriding public interest. From 1-2016, issues relating to OAED subsidies to industrial, craft and mining enterprises located in border regions of the country shall be retroactively regulated by Article 4. At the same time, the question of the unpaid financial claims of the beneficiaries until 31/12-15 is addressed, by means of a set of netting with existing and future public requirements. In accordance with Article 5, additional provisions are introduced for the operation of the "Greece 2021" Commission, which facilitates its activities and, in particular, cooperation with significant personalities, exemption from the collective agreement on remuneration, since the "Greece 2021" Commission is financed by private resources. Article 6 allows the Commission to have a special series of commemorative currencies to provide additional resources from private individuals. Arrangements shall be made for the development of table and umbrella shading in areas of land zone from sanitary shops for the period from 1 June to 31 October 2020 due to the health crisis. There is therefore the possibility that they should either be extended by 50% to an extent without any more costs, or, if there is no further extension, that they should be reduced by 50% respectively. Finally, the second amendment introduces the necessary procedures for the implementation of the distribution of the metropolitan Pole – Agios Kosmas, as well as for dealing with issues relating to the right of surface on it, thus opening up the way to the implementation of the vital work in the Greek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr Kedicoglou, especially for keeping time. I would now ask the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Miltiadis Hadjiyannakis, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have fortunately had time for the committees to develop our positions on the bill you are bringing us, because destiny has not brought it to plenary, too, to be able to talk about the bill itself, as I will again welcome, with great admiration, the 'final state' of the New Democracy Government! Two amendments are coming. And it is my fate that the Minister - because we are from the same region, not elections, but from the Region of Central Greece - each time I am rapporteur, to bring amendments to relatively indifferent bills, which introduce directives or regulations and in which the majority of the parties are positive, which are very important. In the first - and I would remind you - we have had eleven amendments. One was the tombstone of 'LARCO', where we had to in plenary and talked about 'LARCO'. There we have been eating all our time. Today you are bringing us a very good amendment to the Greek, which I read - two, three, four times the explanatory memorandum and the amendment itself - I cannot say that I understand very well what you want to have. It is a badly-written amendment. The explanatory statement is, unfortunately, very badly written. I wonder, in other words, whether it has been put into law by this amendment. I imagine, of course, because it is in the interests of the national investor that you have obtained many of these parts from the legal services of the investment company. I imagined, however, that the investment company will also have legal representation quite good, so that they can write, at least, a text where we can understand what you want to say. However, it is likely that it has resorted to the legal services of foreign companies and we have done a google translate here. Otherwise, I cannot understand why such things are said and read in the amendment. We have been created too many questions. I know it's not your amendment, Mr. Undersecretary. The long-lived explanatory statement on its content is completely incoherent, indeed unreasonable, in the objective and objective of the amendment, and the amendment, as I have said before, is even worse. I hope it's random and, as I said, it's done by bad and hasty work. My question is: Since you have told us - and indeed have been consulted - that we will have two more bills from the Ministry of Finance in the next few days, why should such an amendment come today, without any consultation, without any time for preparation by anyone? In fact, in the report you have in the consultation - obviously there is no consultation and it seems - that the entities that received knowledge and had no objection were the "ELELENIKI SA", the TIPE and the "KEYOLOGY S.A.". We were very pleased that the "Hellenic S.A." and the TIPI, because we were not sure if they would be in agreement! With vagueness, however, and incoherence, I really don't know whether wicked perverts are seen in relation to this provision. You are enjoying companies to circumvent unparalleled constitutional provisions in favour of the investor by attempting to present items of the contract, such as the beach and the cavalry, which is well known to everyone that they are out of transaction, and perhaps - perhaps - I really say this to check - an attempt is being made to change the original contractual terms, which, I would remind you, were checked at the request of the TEAPD. In other words, the Convention has been checked and passed since the Court of Auditors has been approved. If we are going to make substantial changes today - because, in fact, I say that it is for investigation, I do not say that we are going ahead, because I cannot understand exactly the specific provisions - the convention must not go through again, as is the case with today's amendment, if it is law, by the Court of Auditors' control. I do not really know who will be won by such amendments. However, from what I could understand, I have identified three concerns. First: Why the transfer is being made to TIADE by the Greek State and not directly to "ELLINIKI SA", which, I recall, is currently owned by TIADED and thus by the Greek State. In other words, we have no problem if the transfer takes place to a private person. Following the performance of the contract, 100% of the shares will be transferred to the investor of "ELLENIKI SA". This is the contract we have. So, at the moment, I think it would be right, once we pass it by law, and in the recital, we say that we are avoiding, because it is very difficult, to perform notarial acts for the entire process of transferring the rights which the convention determines, to do it directly at the "ELLENIC S.A.", which will be at the end of the day and the beneficiary of the rights concerned. So, why do we put HIAD in the middle of it? It's a question to answer. Tell us why they were chosen. He was chosen for legislators we haven't spotted them, because it was hard to track them in so few hours, or is there anything else? Why am I saying it? As you know very well, this contract includes that 30% of the land will be transferred to "ELLENIC S.A." and therefore, after the transfer of the company's share capital to the investor, and 70% will remain in the remaining "common" uses - I put it in quotes because they are obviously not commons - but, after ninety years, they will return to the Greek State. If the beneficiary with today's amendment is TIADE - in ninety years' time, do we understand, of course, whether there is a problem with returning? And I say that, because we do not know what legal form the HICP may have in some years. Do - I repeat - there is a problem, and now, after transferring, is the Greek State itself directly to "ELLINIKI SA", after ninety years, is it clear that it will return to the Greek State? It is a question, but it needs an answer. And to God, let us not see that these amendments are made and these legislative interventions are chosen, so that there can be notable acts after the transfer of all of the assets - I do not mean, obviously, by "ELLINIKI S.A.". - to private individuals, to establish rights or horizontal or vertical property. Apparently there will be notorious acts over there. I mean, the transfer from the HIDED to the "Hellenic S.A.", of which he is the sole owner of the HIDED. As far as the regulation is concerned, you have an entire article on the regulation. I understand that you want to put a provision - but to explain it to us, obviously, when the Minister comes in which he suggests it, explains it to us - such as the regulations that define horizontal and vertical property, that is to say the regulations on building, to be understood. On what terms will the investor do it? The explanatory statement states that it is for the benefit of both the private economy and because it is unclear the framework above the plans, although the Minister may correct me, because I have not handled this case in any case. But I have the impression that the presidential decree which has been issued clearly defines the locations and properties which will represent 30% in which the property, the full ownership, will belong to the "ELELANDS S.A." and will now be 70%. It seems to me that this process is also confusing. It's not clear. Because I understand from the text that I am trying to conclude that from the topographic charts and from all the diagrams in the contract, it is not clear and we do not know exactly what will be granted in the form of full ownership or the right to use the surface. Another discovery that isn't due to you. It is due to the original contract. We've discovered new legal terms, like the surface. Old people probably, very old, 19th century, who were brought to memorial times. I can't say anything about that, because we didn't change it either. It was a patent that you tried to do from the original contract. We kept her because the legal framework is so unclear. We have the impression, because it was exactly because he had prepared our environment department, because in these very nice photos and video demolitions that you started a year later, despite the fact that Mr. Georgiadis had said they'd get boulders in a week. Okay, we've mentioned this too many times. After a year, after a few bulldozers got into demolition around fifty square feet from the total for photography and video, we have the impression that you did all of this without any permission. We will be tabling you - if we have not already tabled a question for that. We believe that today's amendment, one of the reasons for it, is to legitimise retrospectively any action taken and so that you do not have a problem with the actions to be taken. If they do, because we don't know when they're gonna happen. It can be done in one, two, five years. We don't know. We see that he wants a piece - part of the investor to start selling, making money to finance it. Finally, because he saw - for this matter at the end - the light of publicity yesterday with articles in the press release, we understand that it is like a very - very - very good - that is why - we think it is the answer and not in the next bills that the Treasury wants to issue - an ad for the new bond loan that the investor wants to issue. So after we give him saints, beaches, to choose which plots he wants, to shape exactly what he wants the place wants, we will soon give him the right to legislate... We won't legislate here. We'll give it the right to the particulars, whatever company Mr. Latsi chooses. It doesn't have to be the particular one. He can choose another one of his companies. So since we are going to give them these possibilities, the bond loan will also be able to have better luck if this project is ever financed. That is what we would like some answers. They may also arise from the reading of other colleagues. That's what I was able to do, and I got out, to tell you the truth. We understand in the second amendment that it concerns the realisation of GAIOSE property within port agencies. You are trying to make the fillets that are for sale more attractive, that is, the ports - we understand it - and let it appear in the recital that a chronic problem is going to be solved. We have no particular objections. We understand, especially for Alexandroupolis, where we read that you are ready to proceed with the procedures, that such problems need to be solved, so that you can sell them under better conditions. As I do not have any particular remarks on the extension, obviously, of doubling, because it is an extraordinary treaty. It has happened in all public places. The possibilities for developing bank seats have been extended as a result of this year's juncture. We are positive about such interventions, which, of course, - to be perfectly honest - are aspirins to the heavy pneumonia which, unfortunately, seems to be going through the Greek economy this year. We hope that these interventions will help people a little, although we very much fear that the patient will not have a good end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Hatzyannakis. Is there a colleague who is not a speaker before the list is closed? Nobody. I would ask that we close the list of speakers. Mr. George Arvanitides of the Change Movement has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u9	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today - as I mentioned last week - may not have stolen the lights of publicity, but is vital to the credibility of the capital market and the funds for Greek businesses. In particular, the question of the credibility of the capital market is very important if we want to attract investment and also to protect investors. The case of FOLLI FOLLIE, which these days are on the news again, is an example of how the control mechanisms worked or rather how they did not work. The Government handles this draft law on corporate governance, puts an end to the FOLLI FOLLIE phenomena, 'CRETA FARM' that dragged the country. I hope so, and I hope so. However, it is a good thing at some point to know exactly what happened with FOLLI FOLLIE. Of course, there is the question of whether more than two years after the scandal broke out and with all this mobilisation of the capital market, which, in fact, went on to appoint members of FOLLI FOLLIE's board of directors, we can't even get to the preparation of the balance sheet, so what exactly are we talking about and when exactly are we going to learn the truth? Really, what can one from the Securities Committee say to a small investor who purchases FOLLI FOLLIE shares, a capitalisation company of more than EUR 1 billion, even proposed, when he reads that financial statements cannot be published? Was there or not a complaint to the Securities and Exchange Commission about falsification of the balance sheet by FOLLI FOLLIE since 2015, but has no one dealt with it? So the question of credibility and confidence is of great importance to investors and businesses. The other important issue, of course, is the need for liquidity that exists at the moment. The market, entrepreneurship and research, innovation, employment and the productive sector have great liquidity needs. The arrangements in this draft law help in this direction and can be a useful support tool, when both bank lending and the process of absorbing Community funds from the NSRP in the best of cases have a great deal of stagnation and, of course, they put obstacles and give hopes to satisfying the real needs of companies. The banking system does not set back despite repeated recapitalisations, and it does not, of course, help to find reliable liquidity solutions to business problems. The problem of liquidity is even worsening in small and medium-sized enterprises which, unfortunately, seem more vulnerable to pandemic. 99.9% of Greek companies are small and medium-sized enterprises, according to the OECD report and are experiencing a greater difficulty in meeting the credit criteria than the minimum large companies, but also more limited alternative sources of financing, such as raising capital from the capital market. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the Greek economy is sinking day after day in the recession and the government is trying to curb evil with communication doctors. And that, of course, is a lenient feature, because how can one describe the fact that while the Prime Minister takes pictures of the picture of the demolition of buildings in the Greek on 3 July, seven days later in today's bill, namely, Amendment 393/54 on the distribution and creation of land rights between the Greek public and the HIDE? I will not dwell on the fact that once again they are tabled without consultation or other information provisions on the other nationally important work, nor will I comment further on the fact that it was clear that your Government's agony to enter the bulldozers, at least, before the anniversary of one year of governance instead of one week after taking over government, as the Minister of Development announced at the time on 15 June 2019. However, I would like to ask the government - and I expect a clear answer - this: When will the work be legally and administratively mature to carry out? When will ad hoc stop provisions for the project? Because while the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Scorcho, stated - his wording - "eighteen special laws were needed, twenty-three ministerial decisions and fifty-two administrative acts to start the project", he actually did not start by the concessionaire but he was set up with a state mandate only, unfortunately, for photographs, while the provision that you bring, at least, an even later law of ratification of distribution and creation of land rights and even demolitions, had to bring about an amendment of your own law to make divisional demolitions - I have told you - for the Greek you have been trying to show half the work. Unfortunately, Mr. Mitsotakis begins to remind Mr. Tsipras, who was inaugurating pre-election with mosamades on the Thessaloniki metro. Unfortunately, however, for you, communication management does not save, as Mr Tsipras has not saved. The data of the recession are becoming even more discouraged. The European Commission's summer forecasts last week were disappointing. While the 2020 recession was projected to -9%, slightly below -9.7% of spring forecasts, recovery for 2020 was revised to just 6% compared to 7.9% of spring forecasts. This means that the recovery in 2021, in which your Government is obviously investing, is likely to be much more than dynamic and revised as an overall valuation. However, the government reassures that the figures will be better. Of course, what comes out of your policy is what the President of the Change Movement pointed out in her timely question to the Prime Minister that you are, unfortunately, going on with the "seeing and doing". What other conclusion can be drawn, by reading the other amendment, also on 10 July, from an amendment which, without consulting the environmental bodies, enables hotels to place tubes and cables for desalination and biological cleanup? Without consulting the OSE and as recorded in the explanatory statement, for the service of the OIE and for the service of the investors concerned in the ‘Regional Port S.A.’, the assets of the OSE and the management of GAIOSE are allocated to the organisations in return for consideration to be determined by a ministerial decision. Without documentation, it is still the public bidding process in public-private liquidation that is in the public interest, as mentioned, to be completed in August and by September at the latest. Without justification, it is also because the provisions for the Commission 'Greece 2021' are constantly in need of revisions. The government has obviously no plan for restoring the crisis to date or for the next day. We have before us the European Council next Friday in Brussels on the crucial issue of the Reconstruction Fund. The amount of the funds from the Reconstruction Fund should remain at the level proposed by the Committee and the funding should be in the form of transfers rather than loans. Of course, transfers must not be accompanied by memoranda-type conditions, of which our society and, in particular, the European south has suffered. If the government does not resuscitate and use a national compass, unfortunately, our homeland will soon be in front of new dangerous economic forests, but unfortunately also national ones, because there is no wind for the one who does not know where it is going, especially when it is becoming increasingly clear and clear that the final formulation of the European development package can be delayed for several months. Thus, the perception that is trying to inspire the Greek society by the government that money will flow immediately begins to be severely shaken. That is why, Minister, despite the proper arrangements of this bill, you should give further answers to the concerns of businesses and the concerns of the Greek economy and society. Correct and we are voting in favour of this draft law, although it has been delayed in modernising the institutional framework of corporate governance and the capital market. However, other necessary breaths of oxygen and liquidity are definitely needed on the market and more substance than communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr Arvanitides, for the time. Mr. Synthrakis, special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government, loyal to its election anti-linguistic programme, is engaged in a race to close on behalf of the capital that the SYRIZA government left for. Until now, we have counted over eighty-five bills, while others have been waiting in line since September. It has proved, once again, that the renowned and well-advertised state is nothing but the continuity of the urban state and anti-grassroots policy, which serves all urban parties, regardless of who is at the wheel of the government's power, regardless of New Democracy's greedy and pointless controversy with SYRIZA about the paternity of the anti-grassroots measures or the performance of who is the best manager of either the capitalist crisis or capitalist development. Proof and this draft law, which concerns aspects of the operation of the capitalist economy, has the ultimate support of SYRIZA, the Change Movement and the other parties. Its provisions on the modernisation of corporate governance, the upgrading and strengthening of the capital market committee and its single operation in the European Union, the incorporation of Community directives into Greek legislation on regulation of the money market market, the facilitation of long-term active shareholder participation and the more effective operation of the financial markets have one goal, the elimination of any obstacle to stimulate the business confidence climate on the part of investors, business groups, and the safeguarding of their capital from speculative games of various funds, from competition of interests within business groups, to avoid vibrations and to reduce their profitability. We must admit that your policy is not a fragment. He's got a whole plan, and what's that? To create this very favourable environment for increasing profitable investments, not that it does not now exist. After all, in particular in recent years of the capitalist economic crisis, a number of measures have been taken in this direction. At all costs, the financial markets must be saved and the interests of monopolistic groups guaranteed as organisations by toys from separate shareholders - capitalists, which are the European Union's main objective. In particular, in the face of the new capitalist crisis, the government, the European Union and business groups consider that we need to strengthen even more this environment that has been created over the years. The commitments you make to the representatives of capital show that industrialists demand and simply governments implement. On the one hand, we have promises of cheap money in the monopolistic groups, tax exemptions, tax exemptions, financial packages and others, and on the other hand, we are committed to ending an hour before, by releasing workers' conquests, which are a cause of the crisis. In this respect, therefore, it has no particular meaning on our part to discuss the technical details of corporate governance and Community directives on the operation of financial markets, how to protect and stimulate the interest of shareholders and investors, or the aspects relating to their functioning in terms of transparency, as you say. All the provisions concern the conditions of competition between them and nothing more. You want to breathe and perpetuate this obsolete and parasitic system, become more effective in capitalist exploitation and social injustice. Therefore, all these rules, the Community directives, the protection of shareholders and investors, which are littering in the framework laws and the amendment of Community directives, have nothing to do with protecting the people's interests. To clarify things about corporate governance, anonymous companies do not serve populist interests, as the Government, New Democracy, SYRIZA and other urban parties like to say. It may be a collective form of ownership of capital, but individual property remains. They operate on private economic criteria, having as the only god the profit. Those who do not understand this either do not know or consciously hide the truth, demagogating, drawing up various theories of popular social capitalism, presenting anonymous companies as an opportunity for workers. In fraudulent and creative ways, capitalists and governments call on workers to invest in business shares, with the illusion that their incomes will be strengthened, even that they can become major shareholders and that their sovereignty will be strengthened in the shareholder company. In any case, the share of profits and the conditions under which it is to be made, determines the one with the greatest economic power, i.e. the majority of the shareholders. After all, the larger the mass of small-scale owners - of shares in a company, the smaller package of shares is enough for its control. The parasitic function of the public limited companies is seen by the fact that their shareholders are seconded by the production process and profit and goodwill are fruitful only because they are owners of shares. In addition, Directive 2017/828, which was adopted in March 2017 in the European Parliament and which we are discussing today accompanying, only concerns certain measures to encourage the participation of small shareholders in general meetings and provides for the remuneration of managers to be decided by the general meeting of shareholders, without, of course, limiting the provocative astronomical amounts that are fruited. It is also necessary to publish certain information on State subsidies and tax ruling agreements, since it concerns few companies, excluding the vast majority of large groups. The aim is to deceive workers that, allegedly, with good corporate governance, monopolies can operate at social benefit. It provides for parallel measures that shield business groups, reduce the precariousness in the face of vibrations, crises, involving a reduction in profitability within groups of speculative games of various funds. From this point of view, the directive under discussion comes to ensure the interests of the capitalist shareholders, who have the highest percentages of shares and so-called institutional investors in the groups. Furthermore, it also ensures them against the managers, arguing that, for the problems of crisis or bankruptcy or the reduction of profits, it is the mismanagement of some well-paid Golden Boys or the games of some speculators, reproducing false dilemmas: productive capital on the one hand, speculative capital on the other. Otherwise, however, it maintains the confidentiality of the shares, the commercial and banking confidentiality. It is really ironic, on the one hand, that the European Union should be able to create offshore companies and, on the other hand, that there should be transparency. It is challenging when there are international tax havens with known toys for though who will ultimately be included in the European Union lists, as will capital investment and stock purchases made from different regions worldwide, without any information being provided. In addition, while the obligation of intermediaries to provide public limited liability companies with the information they receive from shareholders is introduced into the directive. On the other hand, it does not oblige them to provide this information either to the State or to make them public more widely. Therefore, anonymous companies, as a capitalist undertaking, have nothing to do with the interests of the employees nor ensure those of the small shareholders. There is nothing more to do with the operation of the socialist units and the socialist way of production and address, as the Minister told us the other day, accusing the JRC that the anonymous companies existed in the former socialist countries. The socialist units, which exist in working power conditions, presuppose the socialisation of the means of production, the central planning of the economy, where the criterion is not profit, but popular prosperity is social property. This proposal, to the extent that, in practice, ensures the active participation of workers, social and labour, democracy in the workplace, is the real way out of parasiteism, the hunting of profits and speculation. No corporate governance can and will not change this ironic law of capitalism on the nature and purpose of capital, which is the pursuit of maximum profit with the hardest exploitation of labour force. The shareholder company has differences from a single-person company. It is an expression of collective property of capital, always in the context of capitalism. In fact, it is the passive proof that the owners are no longer unnecessary and do not need to, since all the functions of production can be carried out by the workers themselves. In other words, it shows the need to move away from capitalist property to social property. In relation to the regulations and the Community directive on the strengthening of the capital market, the Government puts forward the need for supposedly transparency, control and supervision of financial markets and derivatives, which are traded on a stock exchange to enhance confidence in financial markets. It claims that it imposes fair and transparent rules of operation. Which area is it? In the most parasitic and speculative part of capital, in stock markets that accumulate accumulated capital and are a mechanism of huge wealth that came out of the workers' sweat, part of which is led to stock market gambling, is multiplied or even reduced and disappears in periods of crisis literally overnight. This was the case with the Exchange and the bubble of the 1990s, when with a systematic culture of developmental and stock exchange euphoria, in a phase of capitalist development, thousands of small savers were lured, who eventually lost their savings with the crisis. No supervision, no transparency and no rules can change this reality, they cannot guarantee popular savings. Large investors have, anyway, the protection of their position and, of course, the protection of each Member State of the European Union and of the European Union itself. It is no coincidence that incentives are introduced for participation in the capital market, such as dividends from newly established companies, tax rebates for participation in capital increases, reform of the tax regime on investment funds. At the same time, it goes on to gamble the reserves of the insurance funds, public bodies, i.e. workers' lives, only to boost capitalist development and investment. IOBE's report is clear. It says ‘the measures to strengthen the domestic capital market and the reform of the insurance system are working in addition. They reduce the financial burden on the insurance sector in the long term, reduce the non-wage labour costs with positive effects on the competitiveness of domestic enterprises." This means, new facilities and incentives to business groups, so that the new profit fields for private insurance groups can be opened up even faster, along with the downsizing of social security, which has been starting for many years. Of course, the speeds took forward and with a SYRIZA government and now a New Democracy government. On this basis, a new cycle of collapsing the reserves of around EUR 100 billion over forty years is envisaged, mainly from the reserves of new entrants in the labour market and is expected to contribute EUR 80 billion. The modern single market, which you call for, in our view, is an adaptation to the new needs of capital. It is necessary to complement the banking union, which jointly seek to ensure strong and uninterrupted capitalisation of business groups, strengthen their profitability and position in competition with groups from other strong economic forces at global level. The soul of the association of capital markets is to significantly increase the capital of all kinds, which are invested in stock exchanges and out of them, and which in turn fully fund listed business groups for free. You see, the bank lending of businesses is not just making it difficult, but also entails a burden on interest and the freezing of their assets as a guarantee of these loans they receive. All this does not exist in the case of the financing of companies from the stock exchange and the over-the-counter transactions from the funds of investors that play in them. Next, the only sure thing is that, with or without rules on the financial markets won, it is always the big capital. Money markets are a mechanism that raises money, cheap money, cheap funds, to give the business groups an opportunity to invest, as you say, to develop the economy, just to increase the profits of business groups. But there will be a robbery mechanism to make richer and poorer. People's strata should not have any confidence in their financial markets and derivatives at all. The easy profits they promise at times and present in the eyes of the people are simply bait. Every time a circle is closed, the people come out, anyway, twice and three times lost. Workers must end up with the illusions that if they invest properly any small savings they will improve their lives. Finally, any provisions in the latest provisions of the draft law on tax repayment in more than six instalments, the reintroduction of the 2% deduction to the one-off payment of the additional tax within the first instalment, the extension of the doses of the ENPI from five to six, as well as the extension of the doses of legal persons for income tax from six to eight, are not going to take away from the current economic deadlocks the working folk strands that are being plunged. They are just measures to enhance collection and nothing more. Consequently, the draft law is rejected by the Communist Party of Greece, lies outside and beyond the real needs of the people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. If any of this has to come to a conclusion, it is that the workers must quickly be detached from all these illusions, which you cultivate, such as that there may be a mechanism of folk capitalism, which everyone will have a share of the socially produced wealth. In this respect, then, we are clearly saying that as many democratic rules as you put for corporate governance, as much as you apply, the financial markets, the stock market will not be democratised, there will be no transparency, nor accountability, as you say. Your death, my life. That's the rule. Winners will not get the investors and the people in general and vaguely. Capitalism alone is a scandal. In the face of profitability, there is absolutely no obstacle. Only by socialism and the abolition of capitalist exploitation, the socialisation of the means of production and the central planning can it really be ensured that transparency, control and democratic participation are ensured, since the means of production belong to those who produce wealth, i.e. the working class which, through the institutions of labour control and labour power, manages and organises production, on the basis of widened fulfilment of social needs, i.e. when capitalists disappear as a class. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u12	The special speaker of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliou Viliardos is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the first meeting of the committee, we mentioned that provisions on corporate governance are being adopted in this draft law, while some interesting possibilities for raising funds are being introduced and some specific issues are being regulated. This is because of the scandals that have hit the capital market in recent years, such as FOLLI FOLLIE, which for a long time have been projected by the media as a successful outward-looking operation or CRETA FARMS, which we recall was a projected financing of the Junker package. These scandals, however, prove that there are no ideal situations, as well as that the private sector in Greece, especially the few large companies, do not even have the potential to help the country. This is precisely the case, inter alia, from the transfer of the headquarters of certain companies outside Greece, either for better funding terms or for tax purposes, such as ‘COCA COLA’, ‘TITANA’, ‘BIOHALKO’ or ‘VOHALKO’. We also said that the problems of mismanagement are not solved institutionally and that they cannot prevent major fraud or occur only in Greece. A recent example was the German ‘WIRECARD’, which was presented as a dynamic company of the new economy and of electronic payments. Finally, it was a nice window with intangible activities around the world, without any money, after it was revealed that intangible liquidity was an air of EUR 1.9 billion. However, WIRECARD had, as an accountant, a large international company, ERNST&YOUNG, used in Greece by Mr. Hatzidakis to assess the viability of PPC, proud of their choice. It was a company that, after six years, still has not completed the liquidation and re-activation of ELVO. Of course, the 'ERNST&YOUNG' has nothing to do with the British, except for the use of its name, because it is a Greek limited company, with domestic staff, and it had estimated in 2013 on the basis of FOLLI FOLLIE - the deaf, in essence, of LINKS OF LONDON - to the astronomical sum of EUR 83 million, as we will present in the Minutes. So there's nothing else to add for the minister's critical ability. Occupied accountants, however, and internal auditors, have had many other scandalous foreign companies, such as ‘DEUTSCHE BANK’, ‘Siemens’, ‘LEHMAN BROTHERS’, ‘ENRON’, ‘PARMALAT’ and several others that have often dealt with the topicality or have been bankrupt with the known consequences for the global economy, while ‘ENRON’ has played a part in its bankruptcy on Thursday, once a larger audit firm, ‘ANDERSEN’. It is documented, and that the most corrupt country in the European Union is Germany, while the Greek governments are constantly blaming Greece. WIRECARD, however, was supervised by the German Securities Committee, since it was listed on the Berlin Stock Exchange, and indeed one of the thirty leading companies in the DAX index. The results of this surveillance were at least embarrassing for a country that is supposed to be a model for Europe. WIRECARD, of course, had very good lawyers who tortured the journalists of FINANCIAL TIMES who were in vain seeking EUR 1.9 billion. Of course, he did not publish corporate governance audits that did not help anything at all. However, attention needs to be paid to what systemic banks in Greece could start after the project "HRAKLIS" which will not help anything, but will only cost Greeks EUR 12 billion more than EUR 60 billion to the recently and the hive-down, when bad banks have cleaned up the red loans, which will be sold out in funds with retention of real estate and without the use of the provisions of the deferred tax, which will remain in books and will not lose its supposed value. We continued by the fact that Greece's main problem today is not the institutional framework, but the economic crisis, financial tolerance, as well as the government's lack of vision and planning, with regard to the change of our failed economic model, what has been bankrupt and will fail us again, the model, which has made us the benefactors of foreigners, which is causing us great questions, as to the possible real causes of the bill. We mean changing the institutional framework, which will facilitate the further deletion of Greece by foreigners, since the Greeks no longer have the possibility of investing. Furthermore, the bill introduces some generally common practices abroad on the Greek capital market, which we regard as an interesting theoretical exercise in an economy, which is instantly unfunded, with an anaemic capital market, without any development plan, with multinationals dominated by services, but few produce, as well as public enterprises which, instead of being used for the development of the country, are cut and sold at degraded prices. As far as the contents of the draft law are concerned, in the first part, under Articles 1 to 24, the corporate governance framework of listed limited companies is described as follows. Firstly, the functioning of their board of directors, which determines the choice of its members with the obligation to include by 25% a sex - women obviously - or at least six-member compositions of executive, non-executive and independent non-executive members, the remuneration committee of directors and the candidate committee of directors. Secondly, provisions relating to internal control, where the internal control unit, staffing and responsibilities are established. While there was, of course, the relevant institution, there is a need for rules of operation, the corporate governance code of the company, as well as its important subsidiaries. The responsibilities of the shareholders' department, which ensures that the announcements and the provision of comprehensive information on the financial data and the progress of the company are recorded, with shareholders and the investment community, as well as the exercise of their rights. Therefore, the requirements for this activity are increasing. So we're gonna need information professionals, just like it's going on abroad. In the second part of the draft law, Articles 25 to 75 refer to some very interesting financial instruments, of course, the money. In particular: First, they cover issues of recommendation, licensing, operation and disposal of alternative investment funds, of AIFs, which, according to the Securities and Exchange Committee, include the following legal forms: Anonymous Portfolio investment companies, Anonymity Investment Companies in a Real Estate, Cash Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship, ACPS, Capital Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship and Annuity Management Companies, AEDEs. The management companies of the above funds, i.e. with the executives taking decisions. The AEDOEs include the state fund, which, together with the EIB, with the Development Bank, is in a position to allocate, in our view, a maximum of EUR 2 billion, which is certainly not enough for the horrific needs of the Greek economy. We believe that companies in this category are analogous to the institution of private equity, that is to say, companies with a predetermined level of investment, which are able to provide alternative financing and loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, which cannot be imported on the stock exchange or to obtain money from the banks. In the present case, they benefit from liquidity from their relationship, as well as from their follow-up by the professionals of these companies. We must note here that limits are placed on the leverage of 150% of the capital of Alternative Investment Agencies in Article 50, which, of course, was not put into micro-banks, as well as on the 20% of their share capital in the same investment in Article 38. Secondly, a simpler form of raising small capital is introduced through a public offer and the introduction of securities into a regulated market. We consider this to be analogous to the United States' 'Regulation A' in a form of crowdfunding with lower demands and relationships to companies that are not on the stock market. In particular, for sums requested between EUR 500,000 and EUR 5 000 000, an information bulletin is being drawn up and not an information bulletin, under the EU regulation since 2017, which means that it costs less while it is easier. For the sums requested, and less than EUR 1 million, the offer can be made without a card, provided that certain conditions are met, such as the participation of the investor concerned, limited to EUR 10 000 or 10% of its revenue, as well as to EUR 50,000 per management company, so that there is a risk spread. The particular part of the bill, however, is the most interesting and hopeful, especially the one concerning alternative financing, possibly the future for Greece under the conditions of refusal to finance companies by the systemic banks. It must, however, be separated from the stock exchange procedures, i.e. it must not fall within the scope of listed companies, which issue bonds, as should small businesses, which seek to draw low amounts of Article 59. As we mentioned, it is appropriate for the Ministry to consider something similar to the American "Regulation A" which we will be tabling again in the Minutes. In addition, it would be interesting to have new forms of non-listed companies on OTC electronic platforms, such as some, that appeared with enough success in the United States over the last decade, taking advantage of interest, upstream start-ups, as Facebook was then. One of the things we mentioned was bought out and part of Nasdaq is what you know and is known as 'NASDAQ PRIVATE MARKET'. This platform is registered for the sale of shares of non-listed companies, as well as securities, such as claims on bankruptcy, loans and others. In other words, it looks in a way like the electronic registration of real estate for sale, only shares are sold here. In addition, it may be more appropriate to access small and medium-sized companies indirectly to the capital market, such as through AIFs, such as EGTCs, within the framework of private capital, private credits abroad, which can provide them with financing, as well as advisory assistance, while having the size and the ability to meet market requirements. Finally, in the remaining parts of the draft law, in the third, fourth and fifth parts of the procedure, in Articles 76 to 85, I would like to say the following: Firstly, recruitment and reorganisation of the Securities and Markets Committee are scheduled, obviously because of the growing procedures, we hope not in the context of the customer state. In this respect, twenty-eight seats are created and ten are abolished, with a total cost of EUR 435,000 per year and by amending their internal rules. Of course, there is a great need for supervision on the part of the Securities Committee, especially if you consider the level of knowledge on the capital markets in Greece, where the main shareholder of a large listed company was, in the midst of underestimating speculation, to have no money for the basics. We obviously mean PPC and Mr Hatzidakis a little after the election last year, where, in a similar question, the Securities Committee replied to us that it is now overseeing the company. Rather, it did not start after the unacceptable statements made by the Minister, which in other countries would have very serious legal consequences, have stopped. Secondly, tax facilities are provided due to COVID -19 or a discount for the partial payment of private income and business income taxes, as well as HISPIA. Finally, the bill lays down certain fines for infringements by sworn accountants, which fall within the spirit of tightening up the framework. What does not exist anywhere in the bill is to provide incentives for those who are active on the stock exchange, provisions for the protection of minority shareholders, as well as rules for the actual display of the financial sizes of listed companies, while the easier exit of companies from the stock exchange should be institutionalised. To close, one of our main reservations is whether Greek companies can pay off at the extra cost of the draft law, the sad situation they are in, and the inability to finance them from the leftover banks, while large companies have already emigrated abroad. In this regard, a proper framework, like today, could be disastrous, however paradoxical it may sound. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u14	Mr. George Logiadis, special speaker from Mera25, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law introduces basic corporate governance principles, mainly in application of Union law. However, it is deliberately ignorant on some points, as the relevant literature provides for principles of corporate governance that are much stricter, for example, a majority of independent members on the boards of companies, more frequent and more substantial internal and external audits, greater transparency and accountability. As regards the articles, we propose that: Articles 3 and 4, because the discretion of the administrative boards in the policy of suitability and the fields of responsibility touches the limits of arbitrariness. Article 17, because the preparation of the Code of Corporate Governance is contrary to a body of unknown prestige, without reference to criteria and qualifications for the selection of that body. Articles 37 to 56-B and C' Chapters - because they relate to alternative investment funds in the form of mutual funds - which, yes, constitute an alternative source of funding outside the contractual sources of the banking system, which, under normal circumstances, could actually contribute to growth. However, the Greek economy and society have not been in normal conditions today, at least ten years ago, which we must say again and again, precisely so as not to get used to, not to accept the memorial situation in which we have been in 2010. Article 77, because it provides for the setting up of thirty organic positions in the Securities and Markets Committee, without specifying the way and the recruitment procedure. We are proposing that Article 83 should be voted in favour, not because we consider that the increase in the payments of income tax and HISPIA really relieves households and small and medium-sized enterprises at this time, with a view to the otherwise uncertain increase in collection, but because it is an indirect assumption on the part of the Government that it has lost financial control. As far as Amendments 393/54 and 394/55 are concerned, these are provocative arrangements in favour of documentary oligarchal interests. By way of derogation, the first gives additional rights to the real estate of Greek, Agios Kosmas at "ELLINIKI SA" and the second relates mainly to the services of other private interests. We shall vote in principle 'the present'. Continuing, I would like to remind you that what the Greek people call the'money-market scandal' was a huge amount of violent redistribution of income. Apparently, it was designed by a particular group of politicians, bankers and businessmen. The then government created the right environment and hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens played their money in stock exchange gambling, waiting for the certain profit promised by the hundreds of ELDE, who escaped throughout the country, while the then Prime Minister and the Minister of Economics urged the citizens to invest in strong Greece. What's left? More than a million households lost their economies and several assets and many people killed themselves. A circle of businessmen picked up the money and fused it abroad, a newly created clique, people who pretended to be insiders, moving shares and information wealthed out of nowhere, a bond of journalists and politicians had a leading role in this game. The stock exchange scandal proved to be the perfect crime, as no one was held responsible and no one was punished for it. Now, for corporate governance and the Securities and Exchange Commission, having such a prehistoric - as I said - we would expect that a relevant bill would be as comprehensive and comprehensive as possible. However, such virtues do not appear to have. On the contrary, at first reading, it is dismantled from the creation and operation of supervisory mechanisms both internally and externally. In addition, it contains a large number of ambiguities or contradictions in its provisions, as regards the functioning of the Management Board, the procedures for the suitability of roles and the allocation of responsibilities between its members, the creation and procedures of the Committees set up, the modalities for the establishment of a corporate governance system and for the functioning of the Management Board, the preparation body of the Code of Corporate Governance and others. In addition to the selection of this training organisation and the relevant criteria, the way in which the capital market committee is to serve with additional staff needs to be clarified, to avoid 'days' as usual over time, unfortunately. For alternative investment funds, they are essentially funds - investment funds - which participate in the form of funding for various business initiatives. It is an alternative source of funding outside the contractual sources of the banking system, which under normal circumstances could actually help to develop. This is where we have to stand for a while in the big picture. The Greek society and the economy have not been in normal conditions for at least ten years, as I said before. We must see this again and again in this Chamber, precisely so that we do not get used to it, not to accept as normal the Memorandum of Understanding in which we have been in since 2010. That's not the regularity. We do not accept, as normality, the constant austerity, deregulation and privatization, even of the most basic goods. Regularity is not to have a smug banking system, a high tax system and policies that favour the greatest, the concentration of the few of them, taking out of the midst of many small ones, those who you of co-population, but of the Officer of Anti-Population before you called "the backbone of the Greek economy". You have dismantled this backbone with your memorials and 'yes' to everything. So you are now coming to strengthen the legislative framework with new alternatives to financing. In fact, in a country with some 190% of GDP of public debt, with more than EUR 70 billion of red loans, which is continuing to increase, with virtually bankrupt, with a decorative Competition Commission, which does not inspire confidence in the serious investors and, above all, with a long-term commitment by the governments of the Memorandum Arc for primary surpluses, i.e. the continuous bleeding of the private sector by 2060, which, unfortunately, neither pandemic was able to succeed, since the Minister of Finance Mr Stagioras has committed himself to a primary surplus of time in 2021, in the last Eurogroup of 11 June - what serious investors will want to invest, through these plans of the Alternative Investment Agency? Actually, it looks like we're getting a really nice steering wheel for our car, just the same time that the engine of this car doesn't exist, it doesn't work. So before we go to ways of alternative financing business, let us heal our social economy, so that these instruments can flourish. The front of European Realist Disobedience 25, Mera25, has submitted a public consultation with institutions and citizens, an integrated proposal for a law on the protection of citizens against the growing economic crisis. There are all those realistic, directly applicable solutions and treatments for our banking system, for highly indebted enterprises and households, for the drastic reduction in taxation, which will give a real incentive to investment. Mostly through the shape of ATHENA, the new Development Bank we propose, we bring solutions to the political table for the real financing of productive investments. It is truly awkward, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss the plaque while the whole body is suffering from gangrene. With regard to the income tax for natural and legal persons resulting from the clearance of this year's tax returns and which can be paid up up to eight monthly instalments, instead of three monthly instalments for natural persons and six monthly instalments for legal persons who have been in force so far and, secondly, for the ENVY which is specifically for the year 2020, as long as the act of determination is issued in September 2020, up to six monthly instalments, from five that had so far, we consider that not only does it relieve households and small and medium-sized enterprises for this time, leaving the problems unresolved, but also it is aimed at a further uncertain increase in collection in any case. In conclusion, I should like to refer to the artificial intelligence which changes the financial sector and we should take it seriously into account for the future, Mr Secretary-General. Artificial intelligence will be an important driving force for financial service providers over the next two years, based on a global survey carried out and evaluating its current level of definition by the industry. The COVID pandemic -19 proved the need for innovation. In many cases it has accelerated the transformation of many agencies as an essential condition for their survival. The speed with which businesses in the sector worldwide, and also in our country, will adapt and integrate the new technology, will largely judge who will dominate the new environment in the coming years. Apart from the obvious benefits and potential of these new technologies, it is also important to take account of the risks involved. The integration of emerging technologies, such as artificial intelligence, is one of the top ten risks that financial institutions should manage over the next decade, as has shown in recent research. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr Loyades, for keeping time. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, when I read the bill and saw the title, memories of black and tragic came. Exchange! People killed themselves, lost property, committed crime, and the state put its hand on it. Ministers and Prime Ministers said: 'Invest in the Stock Exchange'. We are talking about people who have unfortunately been re-elected and, unfortunately, have been re-engaging us back to theatres with the IMF after a while. Unfortunately, today is most missing. I'm talking about PASOK. You know, many of us might have short memory and forget what had happened back then. Sadly, however, there were people who mourned huge sums, houses all over the place. I remember every corner in Thessaloniki had an ALDE. ALL AELDA! All stockbrokers had become! Everybody! It's like the suffrage shops. It is our philosophy of the economy, that is, it opens up one and it goes well, it opens another fifteen. The problem is that in the Soublantian shops, the Soublange risked, and in this story we risked only the Greek people and we grieved the dead. My question, Minister, is this: Do we have a stock exchange? Is the stock worth it? What capital market are we talking about today? You know, I'm not going to trial intents. It is a good intention, but we are talking about an issue that does not exist for Greece. I mean, there's no stock exchange. Do we have big companies? Most of them have left abroad. Bulgaria went, some others went to Turkey. Well, few have left here. And as for those who have left - I will tell you names: 'FOLIE - FOLIE', 'CRETA FARMS' - we are talking about lame. And I'm telling you it's very simple to understand it. Lamoya! They are people who have taken down the Greek people through these companies. He tried to help them - I don't know why he wanted to help them - and they put back on many political faces for these gentlemen and ladies to exist in these companies. And because you're talking about tourism and you're saying it's the heavy industry, can you tell me how many tourist companies they're on the Stock Exchange? If you see the companies in general on the Stock Exchange, Mr. Minister, they have neither a standing nor a lack of self-sufficiency, to be called "monetary companies". That's a reality. Another is your case - I repeat - because it is also at a difficult time for the economy because we have gone bankrupt, there are no funds, no resources to be raised, there is no public expenditure, there is nothing. All right, we'll see it along the way. But I would like to propose something to your Minister and to your ministers. You know, they've relocated to Bulgaria about a thousand Greek companies, large and smaller. Do you know why they left, Minister? My people live in Greece, here. I'm taxing here. And I will say it again: 35 million euros, 477,000 euros tax, I pay them in Greece, in my home country. So these people left. Why did they leave abroad? Because the company is exaggerating. And PASOK did it, and SYRIZA did it, too. They're overtaxed. What would I do to raise 6 billion euros tomorrow morning? I would say to them: "Those who are in Bulgaria and come to Greece, from what taxes they have in Bulgaria 1% below". And I'll have six billion euros! Jirun 6 billion euros! Do you understand? Bring them here, because only from VAT and turnover to earn money is money and jobs. I told the Prime Minister from the budget if I remember well, Mr. Villard, and he did nothing! Why? I don't want the Greek companies coming back? It's just so! Let me tell you another example that Euripides Stylianides knows about. Northern Greece had most dullies. That's what we called them in our villages. Our village, which is Axos Giannitson, Minister, had two hundred seventy dulls, "Axos TRANS". It was a small village with two hundred and seventy bullies. Do you know that all the daisies are gone and gone to Bulgaria, Minister? Do you know that? And you also allowed Bulgarian companies to work in Greece with Greek drivers. And the worst part is that your Minister, Mr. Costas Karamanlis otherwise, has not done the same thing for a whole year. They do not have electronic tachographs, our trucks, so that the drivers are out of work and that others, foreign companies, Bulgarians, Romanians and other companies work in Greece. And drivers don't take a bit of a break. I'm telling you the simple things. Leave the Stock Exchange. I'm telling you, just do it. A year's unemployed drivers of public transport vehicles, lorries. Why? Because we don't have electronic tachographs. Some papers must come from Poland which the European Union does not accept. He's been delaying a whole year with the Ministry. I told him personally, Minister, and he remembers it. I called him in the summer in August. Eight months have passed. If you want to do e-government, do basic governance and leave e-government. You do the basics. And you know, you legislate in a strange way, I'd say hand-to-hand. You come here and say: Stock Exchange. As if we have colossal companies. Tell me a company very big that Greece has. In Greece, Minister, the S.A. - You know, I don't have to tell you - they're small family businesses. Dad, the kid, the woman, cousin, the most - and we stop there. These are companies, because the Greek state has never promoted the investigation, it has never helped a company to grow really. Let me give you another example, Mr Minister: the future is not very good, it is bad and wars in the future will not be done with the planes, they will be done with the drones. I told the Minister of National Defence, Mr. Panagiotopoulos - I wish the remodeling was still a Minister - for children from the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki: Get them together, make them an industry - model for drones, to have exports, but also our own weapon systems. I don't know what happened. We left it like this and rented - and we do well - from Israel, but we could produce our own drones since we have our heads. What's simpler? All companies with weapons systems, my Minister, arms industry fund their companies indirectly or directly. The banks here do not give loans to small and medium-sized enterprises. What stock exchange should we talk about? Let us leave this, Minister, and let us take it seriously, the very serious ones. I don't know how many you heard Mr. McCron, Mr. Loverdo today. Mr. McCron made statements. His speech to the Armed Forces of the French army: the Mediterranean region will be the challenge of the coming years. Crisis factors are many. First: Sea zones. Second: destabilisation of Libya. Third: Immigration - illegal immigration. Access to resources, i.e. natural gas and oil, and Macron says Europe must redefinite its role without naiveness and reassurance. And I am addressing the Greek Parliament: all that McCron says is about Greece, all the conditions for destabilising the Macron declarations. Macron for his own interests loves Greece at this stage, but he must have the "Greek-French alliance" lead the government to other options, better relations with France. And let us not forget that France and the Revolution of 1921 and later had a philosophical attitude, perhaps because they owe the Enlightenment to us, why was the Renaissance? What was reborn, what was enlightened? The ancient Greek spirit was reborn. That's the reality. Anyway, do something. He's shouting. Macroon says so. Mr. Anastasiades came today. Shouldn't all the political leaders be, Minister, ladies and gentlemen? Shouldn't Mr. Tsipras, Mrs. Gennimatas, Mr. Koutsoubas, Mr. Varoufakis be there? Shouldn't we all be there? Greece and Cyprus are sister states. To me, we are a nation. You're talking about different states. For me, Cyprus is close, it's Greece. That's it. Shouldn't all the political leaders be leaders to meet him, talk to him, see what he thinks? Cyprus is a cornerstone for the Greek EOZ. If we defined an EEZ for Cyprus, Turkey was finished. I'm saying this because for me the next two, three months are very important and we all have to understand it in here. We're few, but it doesn't matter the quantity, but the quality of people. And here I see good colleagues. Old defense. We must unite all parties. It can't be done. It's been a long time. We've got to start a relentless party alliance against what's coming for a relentless race. And I hear SYRIZA and New Democracy fighting on both sides about the mosque in Agia Sophia, about who is to blame and who is not to blame. The crimes of national, dear friends and friends, ladies and gentlemen, have never been made by a party, they are time-consuming. I will set an example for Andreas Loverdos my friend. In 2002 you were not a State Secretary for Foreign Affairs. Were you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u18	I was.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u19	So, Andrew, at the time, had posted an article saying that Greece's Minister of Foreign Affairs on his own oral mandate - George Papandreou - said to NATO Council not to veto the rename of the Dardanelles Steins in Stenna Turkish. ‘PRODUCTYPE’, 2002. I'll get you the file. You know these little mistakes, small crimes, little mistakes, involuntary or voluntary, lead to a course that is unfavourable to our national issues. The Imias, the non-reaction and the affliction of many decades have been mistakes we have all made. You've all done it. I was never Minister or government. However, because everyone is talking about Europe, I have an objection and is on the ground. When does political and social cohesion become a reality? When you have an army? When does an economic policy, social power gain power? When you have an army. How do you invoke the European Union and UNESCO for Agia Sophia, which other mosques make, and say that UNESCO and the European Union will save us? Look, because I was born in Germany, more European than I do there is no one in here. I, however, envision a different Europe, a Europe with a common army, with common defence, with a common foreign policy, with common interests and common interests - I will say it directly - institutions for the whole of Europe. It's not bad, I guess. However, by invoking the machine god, a Europe that does not exist in the military, to save you, I believe that you are investing in the unknown, not to say that you are stranding on the cliff. So when the French started the European Union, do you know why they put Germany into the European Union? What was the French saying? To reform it and make it better. That's why they put it. It is the same philosophy of many in New Democracy, SYRIZA and PASOK, who have been telling us for decades that Turkey wants it in the European Union to control it, he says, does not escape. Listen, Turkey is not a European country. It's never been and it's never gonna happen. And you know why? Not because we don't want it. They don't want it. You need to make that clear in your mind. You may say what you want and want Turkey in Europe, but Turkey does not want it itself. Turkey wants to take Europe's money, but behave as an Asian country. That reality. If we see it in our minds and think about it together and understand what is coming, we will see that, as Germany has not reformed it from France and France has failed today, it is Germany's pigeon, and Turkey will remain Turkey, as Mongols, because that is where they came from the Mongolian steppes. What can we do? Can we change them? To civilize them? It can't be done. When you do not treat yourself in a monument of global cultural heritage, such as Agia Sophia, with proper and due respect, it means that you have an uncivilized, barbaric attitude. I will not make them European. They don't want to. By the way? And because you invest in Europe, I will be very consistent with the numbers. Turkey and Italy. I want you to listen to the trade balance and if you think that Italy will do the favour of Greece to help Greece against Turkey, you are wrong. It's all a matter of interest. There are no friendships. The Russians are neither our friends, nor the French are our friends, nor the Americans are our friends. No one's our friend. Italy-Turkey trade balance in 2017 was $19.7 billion. In 2018, the third best customer for the Italian war industry was Turkey. Markets of arms from Italy: 632 million in 2018 and leave 2017 and 2016. So I ask you, why are you serious people, why do you have a little mind, why are you thinking with common sense, common sense: can Italy shoot its feet? Only Greece did this with the AOZ with Italy, who is a bored EOZ. Only Greece shoots its feet. Example: All your MEPs the day Erdogan announced the mosque had the courage to say 'yes' to EUR 500 million to Turkey. Not your MEPs have said not about the price of arms, all of your MEPs have said. To say "no" all together. Only the Greek Solution said "no". What simpler than reacting. And you know, I'll tell you other things. Turkey - Germany: commercial balance of 35.9 billion and you expect Merkel to have a good talk? I lived in Germany. Merkel is hostage during the election process by the Turks who vote there, second and third generations. You don't know that. I know Germany better than you. Eighty thousand Turkish-based companies in Turkey are waiting for Germany to help us? The best client of Germany's war industry is Turkey. What else can I say? We're going to Britain. Turkey's biggest partner, 18.8 billion euros, after Germany. That's why Britain insulted and said it's Turkey's internal matter, so that it doesn't lose customers, that it doesn't lose the money. What Europe are you talking about? Of course, because you invest a lot in the Americans, I'll tell you what Pompeo said. Do you know what Pompeo said today? ‘Illegal Chinese claims to the China South Sea’. Because it suits him, because Japan is a partner of the United States of America, and Pompeo intervened. Illegal Turks claims don't say it's illegal. The mosque doesn't say this happened illegally. Don't wait for anyone I'm honest with. We're alone, we'll stay alone. Of course, I would like to say something to my friends, ministers of the New Democracy. Yesterday there was an incident in Mykonos, not Paradise, isn't it? Five or six fishing boats came in and took a ride. The port said that "because of the wind," he says, like the cables that were slamming behind Crete and the air took the ship, Mr. Comrade. Voridis, the fisheries minister, said it was illegal. It was in the two nautical miles. Do you know why Turks do this? Why didn't you make fishing zones, not PASOK, neither SYRIZA, nor New Democracy. Fishing zones since 1981 and ends in March 2021. We don't have fishing zones as a country. Three parties have ruled and globally had fishing zones we do not have the effect that the Turks can fish wherever they want, the Moroccans where they want, the Algerians where they want to. As a result, we sit in Mykonos today and watch in Mykonos while other Turkish boats bathe to make patrols and rides. How do we tolerate this? Make fishing zones. It ends in March 2021. We'll logically have a New Democracy if the Prime Minister doesn't go to an early election. Do it now. It's not bad. Do something. Because you are criminalized against Greek fishermen. The Turks consider the Aegean fricket to be either in the air or in the sea, or in the islands. Don't we get it? Responsibility is burdened with all of us. So, what if something happens? Should we not at some point realise the obvious that some things must be done on the basis of the convergence of political leaders? Let's talk, son, and all the political leaders make a commitment that they won't get out to talk. Only the Prime Minister will speak, and he will say, "That's what we agreed and we go forward together." I mean, how do you tell me? And say, "We will only declare EOZ unilaterally," that is our right. And then come on, the Turks, and we'll talk about it. Because that's how it works. You know, you don't demarcate, but you're proclaiming and it's your one-sided right. And then we talk about it with Turkey, if it wants, under international law, as you say. Because for me there is no international law, I have said so. Let's make new alliances. The alliances take place with common interests. Who are the countries? United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, which are hostile to the Erdogan regime. Let's talk to Israel openly. The Palestinian friends of SYRIZA went out and were pleased that Agia Sophia was mosque. What would I do? Official recognition of the State of Israel, not least! To end the story of traditional friendships that were never friendships. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Also, let the Minister of Press Mr. Petsas go out and tell SKAI and the other channels "do not put Turkish sirials" my child. You've flammed us with the Turkish sirial. Immediate suspension of the glasses, gentlemen of the New Democracy, which you gave to the Dodecanese. Yesterday you were supposed to do it. Mr Levaneaux, please tell Mrs Kerameau to suspend her leave to the Dodecanese. Because there are two hundred notorious Turks saying, he opened up mosques. Three months ago, it happened in here and I told her not to. Suspend it. There are ways. Seal the illegal mosques. And tell you the other one? Don't rush in September to do the Botanic. Make him in September 2023 if you want. Take him down. There are ways. Of course, I'll say something that some people might plunge them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u20	Complete, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u21	Yes, Mr. President. Because I'm a Pontius in the origins, I wouldn't seem bad to do the house of Mustafa Kemal Pasa Museum of Pontian Genocide. Can you imagine Israel having Hitler's museum in Jerusalem? Kemal was a slaughterer of the Greeks. We gave him a museum. We gave him space. Why did we do that, you tell me? Crime is timeless, not one. And finally stop the Turkish consulate in Komotini. I don't need to go to Andrianoupolis or to Smyrna. Turn it off, son, and close this too. I am also closing here, Mr President, to economic measures, I have told the Prime Minister a long time ago and in private. He heard it, but I didn't see him implementing it. Let's stop shooting at our feet. Remove the embargo with Russia. The peach producers from northern Greece give their peaches to Russia and throw them at the dumps now, because we have an embargo on Russia. Why should Germany make Nord Stream II, Germany make a MERCEDES factory in Moscow and I, which need Russia's money, shoot myself? And don't people start at me about Putin now that he didn't do anything, he didn't do one, he didn't do the other. Listen a little to be serious: tell me a European country that deported Russian diplomats. Only Greece with SYRIZA for the scorpion. Only Greece deported Russian diplomats, no other country in Europe! There may have been cords, shots, clashes, but only the SYRIZA gentlemen deported Russian diplomats, please. We're not talking about civilians. And to say it differently, the New Democracy, on a mandate from the Minister, sent two warships to the Black Sea against Russia. Why? Instead of sending them to the Aegean and Crete, are we sending them against Russia? And I could say other things. Already the Prime Minister reacted 15 days ago at the summit, and he reacted well and said "it is worth wondering why penalising Russia, it is wrong what we are doing" and after half an hour he imposed them, that is, he did not respect the pretexts either. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, because the time is pressing too, if I were the Prime Minister, I would have imposed a little health checks on all products from Turkey. I have the right. He has pesticides, pesticides, he has biomedicines, a pile, a product that is competitive with Greece. I'd impose duties on them. Erdogan put in eight hundred European tariff products. Greece gives EUR 2 billion every year to goods from Turkey. That's where Erdogan hurts. No one wants war. Away from anyone in here, the word war. But if need be, we'll call her. So I say we do countermeasures. I'm not saying ban, but countermeasures. We close the Gardens so that they don't pass their trucks as a state, but with constant checks on the highway of traffic, customs,'stop right to control you', to delay them, to create them. Where Turkey is hurting right now is in the economy. Let's hit them there. It is worth wondering that even now there are Greek entrepreneurs who have invested in Turkey and have their factories there. It's a disgrace! And also, tell Vorides to stop catching from Turkey. Hundreds of millions of euros we give fish from Turkey, which is Greek. From the Aegean Sea they fish them, they take them to Turkey and they transport them to Greece so that we can take them. These are incredible things.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u22	Please conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u23	Turkey's European funding veto was vetoed. At some point, we have the right to veto. You don't put on Albania, you don't put on Skopje, you don't do an examination in New Democracy. At least now that our church, Agia Sophia, has become a mosque, veto Turkish funding. And here's who Erdogan puts imam - and here I close, Mr President - because it's symbolic. It announces hoja, imam from Bosnia, please. Because he wants to do his Ottoman empire. He wants to infiltrate his Islam because he wants to be the sultan of all. It's what we call the tactics of the half moon. This is Erdogan's dream of Turkey becoming a great half-life from the Balkans to Libya and North Africa. That's his dream. And he puts Bosnian imam, it's semantic, doesn't accidentally do it. He wants to show that he will infiltrate the Balkans and that the Balkans are a party of the empire. And it is shameful and I feel, frankly, that I say this, that there are parties of the Greek Parliament at the time when the mosque became "yes" to five hundred million - all parties other than the Greek Solution - of Turkey. All the Members of the European Parliament together should vote against this story. Unfortunately, they didn't. And you know these are repeated mistakes. And when you repeat the same mistake constantly means that you're a veil or that you're dangerous. Pick. Route your logic to get the place ahead. It's been a long time since August. Be ready for their research. I have already learned from today that he has commanded that, now, the maintenance of the three research scientists should be done and that he should have the Aegean, Crete and Kastelorizo. I'm afraid we're getting off the hook. Meeting of political leaders, red lines, to know where the limits of Greece are and where the limits of tolerance and resentment are. For us there is no sedative. What's Greek is Greek. What violates national sovereignty is plunged or destroyed. There's no other way, guys!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u25	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. As a Parliamentary representative I listen with respect and interest to all the political leaders, not only Mrs Gennamas, trying to get away from everyone who wants to contribute to the country's joint efforts. The Chief of the Greek Solution, Mr. Velopoulos, has asked, and has been taken over by the MPs of his party, that Greece officially recognise Israel.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u27	I said capital, Andreas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u28	In 1990 Israel was recognized unless his memory deceives me. The question of the capital transfer is another matter. But the country has officially recognized this state since 1990.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u29	We shall now enter the list of speakers. In view of the fact that there are enough speakers and that the parliamentary representatives have not spoken and we have come out of time, does the House agree to put six minutes? Without meaning you won't talk seven. Seven you're gonna talk, but let's start with six so we don't get abused and we're over it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, while I was speaking, President Velopoulos told me that he was talking about the capital. I am assured that all Members have not said 'in the first place'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u31	I meant capital, I was wrong. The easily understood ones shall be omitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u32	Good. Mr Stavros Keletsis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago a great political change took place. The Government of the New Democracy and the Kyriakos Mitsotakis continues today, one year later, to enjoy the confidence, the absolute trust, the Greek people. And that's no accident, but it's based on certain specific factors, it has specific bases. One of the main features of this government is the credibility, respect for its promises, respect for what we promised in the election and immediately started to apply on the next day of the election. We have also demonstrated a practicality in terms of - and it is not by chance that I would mention practicality - the resolution of specific problems, either years old or recur and come every day new. We have therefore shown practicality, efficiency, and this has strengthened the credibility of this government in society, but at the same time also the credibility of the political system as a whole, and that is the important thing. So we move on to a relationship of trust with Greek society. One of the bills, which responds to these requirements of the time, which gives solutions and modernises the whole of the capital market, is the draft law that we are debating today. It really solves the malfunctions that have been observed in the past, facilitates the raising of capital by public limited companies and, more generally, adapts our entire legislation to the European environment and to the European economy. So it's a very important bill. But I will not speak to you in detail about the arrangements in this bill. I shall deal more specifically with the issues that opens up a very important amendment, which has been retrospectively addressed by Thrace. As one of the Thrace Members, who I represent the Prefecture of Evros, I have to deal with these two very important issues. In particular, Article 2 of the amendment solves a problem, which was practical, but which created huge issues in the use of the port and in the development of the port. What was that? It was the fact that within the port area there were assets of the OSE which were managed, under the current legislative framework, by GAESOSE. Therefore, while we were looking for a vital place at the port in order to be able to move forward to the next stage of development, this issue should be resolved. So it comes in a practical way and gives a solution, enabling and transferring these properties of the OSE to the Organization for the Port of Alexandroupolis, so that at the next stage of the development of the port and until the end of the concession contract between OSE and the port today the port, the organization, can use this area freely. It is an important regulation, which takes us forward as far as the port is concerned. And I must say that a solution has already been given in relation to private property. In other words, the expropriations of private property located in the area have gone ahead. Today this is the second step and very quickly we are moving towards completing the great question of the development of the port of Alexandroupolis. It is therefore a very important work for Alexandroupolis, for Evros, for Thrace. The second issue, which is resolved by Article 4, is the chronic problem, the major problem, the major issue to which I referred in my speech, again in a bill from the Ministry of Finance, on 24 June, Minister - and you were here, I recall - on the issue of the reimbursement of the debts of 12% to the undertakings of the border and Thrace, which we are concerned with. There were, of course, processes, contacts, consultations with the institutions, with the chambers, with the businesses and colleagues, the Thrace Members, we have worked together, and today we see that the Ministry has indeed listened to us and I also want to express our public thanks for this. With this arrangement, it offers a solution, enabling the State to offset with obligations of the past and also in future, to offset the company's liabilities with which it owes its businesses. It is, as you can see, a very positive development, because at a very difficult time, there is a lack of liquidity in enterprises, following the economic crisis that we have experienced, following the crisis that has created us and the pandemic, it gives a breath to the operations of Thrace. That is why, Minister, once again thank you. We are optimistic, ladies and gentlemen, and I will close with this - we are indeed optimistic about Thrace. Because every time we asked and everything we asked, this government really listened to us. Initially, we had the issue of agricultural compensation for cotton and wheat in the period of 2018, which the previous government had really left in a loose end, which seemed to be no solution. We've given a solution to that, too. Today we are giving a solution to the practical issue of the development of the port project, we are giving a solution to the 12% issue. It is very important that you have a government that listens to you and gives solutions. And we are optimistic for another reason, because only a few days ago the Prime Minister announced the establishment of a intergroup committee under the presidency of Mrs Bakoyannis, a policy with great experience, for the development of Thrace. I believe that through the processes, through the exchange of views, the submission of proposals, which will be made by all of us, and above all by the institutions, we will have a positive result, which will be the compass, which will be the compass for the development of Thrace in the years to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u34	Mr Dimitrios Haritou, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. I take the floor to refer to the amendment that you incorporated into the draft law, which is of particular importance to the Thrace region, the number 394/58 which, by Article 4, repeals Article 21 of Law 1767/88, which concerns the financial support from the State to the border regions and, of course, the treatment, at the same time, of the government's unpaid financial obligations towards enterprises, with financial aid as a percentage of the company's wage costs, known as 12%. A positive undeniable development, however, primarily as stated in the explanatory statement, between 2010 and 2015. I repeat from 2010 to 2015. And I repeat it. because I hear triumphs, in particular, from the majority Members. What don't you remember, gentlemen? How did this debt accumulate about 240 million? What kind of creation is it? Do you forget that he was giggled over your days of successive governments? Since the first half of 2010, I would remind you that it has to pay the aid to enterprises! Do you think the world of entrepreneurship forgot the trial and the incredible suffering it has suffered? Yours are mostly the wounds that have been opened to the body of entrepreneurship in the region. And if you are in a position today to alleviate the effects with regulations by offsetting debts to businesses, with the existing or future public requirements, this is mainly because we are in another period that we have led it, apart from memoranda, without a committee, with a stable economic environment, so that you can bring arrangements that were obviously incompatible with the period of previous governance. So leave the celebrations and land on the ground. Because the legislative regulation abolishes the incentives to support entrepreneurship in the region. You are reminded, among other things, by a joint communication from the regional chambers. They mention that in the unfavourable economic situation, the disadvantaged characteristics of firms in the region make employment vulnerable and irreversible to growth, unless entrepreneurship is strengthened by targeted measures. May I remind you, gentlemen, of Law 4608/19, that Article 41 on support for enterprises active in less developed regions, in regions with low GDP, with high unemployment? May I remind you that the planned financial support for enterprises is made in line with wage costs? Will you finally activate this existing legislation? Will you make a provision in the budget? Will you make the necessary ministerial decisions or, gentlemen, will you also consider abolishing this useful legislative instrument for businesses at the border, so that it does not appear that you are making use of a positive arrangement of the previous government? The truth is that you have not convinced us that your interest in supporting investment and entrepreneurship in the region is being sincere. Twelve days ago from this Step, in my timely question about the reopening of the SELMAN plant in BIPE Komotini, the Minister for Development assured me that in ten days it will be over. The same thing was confirmed three months ago by the Prime Minister himself, the actors in the region. Yesterday was the day when the investors' bid was submitted, along with the subsequent commitment made by the Minister here in the House, to participate or at least to express the interest of the Development Bank. None of this happened, nobody showed up in the bankruptcy proceedings. Once again, the government kicks the can away from September and we see it, and together it also kicks any credibility and seriousness of the Minister himself. While, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, for SELMAN you are not in a hurry, when it comes to the port of Alexandroupolis, you are not detained in order to serve the already announced sales of the majority package of 67% of public shares. That is why you have tabled, in the draft legislation under discussion, the arrangements with which they are transferred as long-term concessions to the OSE-GEOSE ports that are located in the land area of each port. A provision that leaves no doubt at all that it relates primarily to the Agency for the Port of Alexandroupolis, while, as you know, the concession also follows from the port of Kavala. You will, gentlemen, grant the region's main development infrastructure without integration planning to the development objectives of the region. One last point. I have listened very carefully and with interest to the Prime Minister of the country proposing the setting up of a cross-party committee for Thrace. There is no doubt that there is a need for understanding, seeking confrontations and a possible common place for the development issues of the region, a particular region of importance, without, of course, implying that the deep differences of strategy that exist today and, obviously, they are distinct. The region needs a coherent sustainable and fair development plan, which will take advantage of its strong comparative advantages, its productive potential, which will further strengthen the preconditions for the region to become, as already, a positive international example of the harmonious and democratic coexistence of its citizens. I would like to stress, gentlemen, and to know that the world of work and entrepreneurship, the region does not need to be able to cope with communication processes that will exploit existing accumulated problems, nor does it of course need to serve personal strategies in the region. As SYRIZA we have, not only a strong viewpoint and positions for the region, but we have already given a tangible sign of writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u37	Mr Colleague, I will submit to the Minutes the approval of the operational programme of TIDE by the Governing Council of Economic Policy, 17-5-2017, signed by Mr Drasakis, Mr Tsakalotos, Mr Papadimitriou, Mr Stathakis, Mr Spirtzis and many others, where he refers to the use of the Alexandroupolis Port Authority - because you have wondered that we are doing so for the first time - Elefsina, Lavrios, Rafina, Igoumenitsas, Corfu, Kavalas, Volos, Patras, Heraklion. This is for the Minutes, so we don't forget.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u38	I will now give the floor to Mr Stylianides and after Mr Stylianidis, I will give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Zavvos, and then we will be on the list again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u39	A comment on my friend Takis Haritou. They give us donkey - after ten years - and we look at him in the teeth. Today, ladies and gentlemen, this is a special day for Thrace, because it restores an injustice against Thrace and shields a unique development perspective. With Article 4 of the amendment, due obligations of the state are being settled, vis-à-vis the undertakings in the outermost region, and the image of an inconsistent, inconsistent and - I dare say - of an unsatisfactory state, which, in its past few years, has been unjustified and destroyed by dozens of companies, and has also persecuted thousands of locals abroad. I would therefore like to thank Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis for his consistency and sensitivity, Mr Christos Stakoura, for the persistence and effectiveness with which he handled the issue, all the co-legislative ministers who contributed, and also the representatives of the market in Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, who, over the past few years, have insisted quietly and systematically to defeat injustice and abandonment. Ladies and gentlemen, since 1975 they have all realised that the development path of Thrace has been similar to its demographic armour, with the economic extroversion of Greece, with the national security of the country. The first was Constantine Karamanlis in 1976 and with Law 289 he set up a package of incentives which caused and invited three hundred seventy applications for new businesses to create twenty-seven thousand jobs at the time. Despite any management failures of the time, this was the beginning of a policy that brought the first industrial development in Thrace. This national policy has been respected by all subsequent governments, supplementing or correcting the institutional framework and development interventions: The Government of Andreas Papandreou under Laws 1262/82 and 1682/87, the universal government, the Government of Constantine Mitsotakis with Law 1892/90 and Law 2234/94, as well as the Government of Costas Karamanlis, who, with the thematic improvement of infrastructure and consistent support for the motor framework, improved the sizes in the region. Despite any failures, this cross-party and time-consuming consistency in the motor framework from 1976 to 2009 created industrial growth in Thrace, maintained thousands of jobs, strengthened demographically the region, stimulated exports and national extroversion and created synergies with the surrounding countries. This dynamic was interrupted, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, forcefully and surprisingly at the beginning of 2010, when it stopped paying 12% employee subsidy and, indeed, while companies had taxed and balanced this money in their accounts. This injustice and the irrationality of the state reached its peak in 2015, when the government of SYRIZA with the Ministerial Decisions Stathakis unlawfully and unconstitutionally abolished this incentive, completely unreasoning the fate of the companies in the region and the survival of their employees and families. This downturn in liquidity resulted in a ministerial decision by Mr Stathakis, who was declared unconstitutional, many businesses closing down, others moving to neighbouring countries and others enclaved. Unemployment was escalated from 4% to 33% and thousands of young people left the region, dismantling their families. Eastern Macedonia and Thrace have weakened demographically, even jeopardizing the country's national security. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I emphatically emphasise that, today, in the vote on Article 4 of the amendment, we are not simply resolving a lack of state inconsistency, but closing the accounts of the past so that we can all build a safer and better future together. The institutional basis for claiming development incentives was ensured early and long with my colleague Marietta Giannakou when we proposed that the border and degraded areas be protected at the European Constitution assembly. Our proposal was adopted by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 174(3), and is currently in force. In the last revisions, with a proposal from the New Democracy, we have drafted this policy nationally, introducing Article 106(1) of the Constitution which imposes such state support for border regions. I am tabling the relevant document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Evrypidis Stylianidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The patronage of our arguments was strengthened when, after co-operation with business, we reached a court decision last spring, the Council of State, where the supreme court declared the Ministerial Decisions SYRIZA and Stathakis as unconstitutional. I am tabling the decision of the Council of State in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Evrypidis Stylianidis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This development has been strengthened by the response given by the European Commissioner, Mrs Westager, to a question which we have raised through our competent MEP, Mrs Spyraki, that this means of aid is permitted in border regions. I am replying to the Commissioner for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Evrypidis Stylianidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have waited for the five-year period to give up the right to claim from the European Union possibly illegal state aid, and at the same time we have created a patronage of new arguments, by making a comparative study throughout Europe, where it emerged that the whole of East Germany has received state aid in its entirety. How little Thrace is entitled, what East Germany is entitled to. With a weapon, therefore, these arguments and absolute coordination, along with the colleagues of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, as well as the dear friend and colleague, Dimitris Ciridis, elected in Athens, we met all the relevant ministers and Undersecretaries. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like, if I may, a little more time, because it concerns our region. We have then submitted a letter, together with a full legal and political documentation file, to the relevant Minister, Mr Staikoras, and to the Prime Minister. I submit this letter for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Evrypidis Stylianidis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Prime Minister's sensitivity to the interest and coordination and steadfastness of the present Minister, Mr Stavoura, has led us, ladies and gentlemen, to today's outcome. Article 4 of the amendment repays the State’s debt to the undertakings in the region from 2010 to 2015. Anyone he wants can continue to claim after 2015 in court if he does not enter this compromise. We are giving a privilege right now, which was buried by the previous government. At the same time, of course, the companies they do not owe do not need to offset the present debts they do not have, but the future ones. This move echoes many of Thrace's businesses, creates conditions for viability, facilitates access to cheap funding, now that the Prime Minister brings 32 billion from Europe and creates new prospects because of liquidity in creating jobs that the region and its world need. The abolition of the old type of State aid is accompanied by the adoption of a new development philosophy, the content of which will be determined intergrouply by the new intergroup set by Prime Minister for the development and promotion of Thrace under Ms Dora Bakoyannis. This proposal by the Prime Minister to the President of the Parliament and by the parties is the foundation of a new national understanding and on it can be based on a national cross-party, time-consuming and ultimately national policy. That is exactly what our Thrace needs today. I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the government's proposal. Thrace, recently in Evros, proved that it deserves and deserves it, because she knows how to guarantee the security of Greece and effectively protect the European borders. And before I come to step, Mr President, I am presenting in Minutes my recent study of Thrace as a model of open democratic society and a model of alternative ecological development, which has also been published in English and Greek, which concludes that Thrace, because of its geopolitical importance and its population composition, or will raise on its back the recovery of the Greek economy and the return of Greece to a role of regional protagonist, or because of the indifference and mistakes of the Athenian centre, as it has so far been, will be the most serious national issue of the country in the years to come. [[At this point, the Member, Evrypidis Stylianides, presents for the minutes the above study, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am pleased that today the government and our Parliament are making a decisive move towards the first and the second chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Dimitrios Ciridis has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, thank you. I will be very brief both to facilitate the debate and to follow the good colleague from Rhodope, the dear Euripidis Stylianides, who said everything in his thorough speech. I have asked to speak in plenary to support, with all my powers, the very important amendment tabled by the Government and to personally congratulate the Minister of Finance, Mr Staikoras, on the sensitivity and effectiveness he has shown in addressing a long-standing problem relating to the major, nationally important region, which is Thrace. I'm not a Thrace MP. I am a Member of Athens, but I think Thrace is about us all. It's the national battalion. We should not think of Thrace only at the time of the Greek-Turkish crisis, such as we had recently in Evros in February, but should have a time-consuming care and care of the Greek state in this sensitive area. Thrace's problems are well known. They concern the borderline of the region, its removal from the centre that creates problems in the transport equivalent, the incomplete infrastructure - port, rail, energy - the difficulty of finding skilled personnel, the demographic decline while the eastern Thrace, east of Evros, is gigantic. Only Adrianoupolis nowadays has a larger population than all of our western Thrace together. This poses a number of dangers, which were also seen with the recent crisis of the immigration-refugee in February and with the coronary. And then all the time. The Greek state, the Government of New Democracy, now comes to correct an injustice that has been caused in recent years in the vortex of the memorandum and to give the undertakings in the region, which it owes for the period 2010-2015, the famous subsidy of wage costs. Businesses have recorded this revenue in their balance sheets. Many of these have been discounted to the banks, they have been taxed for them, but unfortunately they have not been collected. And not just that. I am surprised to hear SYRIZA's spokesman a little while ago referring to the government in a disgraceful way. I would tell you to be more careful, because it was SYRIZA who, by ministerial decision in 2016, abolished this subsidy in a way, as judged by the supreme administrative court of the country, the Council of State, unconstitutional and illegal and then, in a hypocrisy bed, came to present a collective question a few weeks ago, inviting the government for not paying the wage bills they abolished in 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u42	In 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u43	The ministerial decision was of 2016, if I remember correctly, Euripides. It does not matter, 2015 or 2016. So the government is now coming after a coordinated effort by all the local parliamentarians, who are leading Mr Euripid's friend, but also my own, with constant contacts with all the co-legislative ministries, to restore the injustice and strengthen the liquidity of businesses, the affected, the tested businesses there, productive, exporting, dynamics that have lasted ten years of crisis and which, Mr Minister, are really guarding Thermopylae. Because, without productive web, we do not have Thraces and without Thraces, we do not have national defense and we do not have the security and peace that all Greeks are entitled to and deserve and we must have. I would like to congratulate you once again on this initiative to be restored to our country, and on this point the rule of law, which had been faded by inconsistency - not to say a heavier word - of the state. I think - I am entitled to say - the precursor of a wider development strategy for Thrace and the whole border, which will be unfolded in the coming months. We have the recent Prime Minister's decision, which quite rightly set up a intergroup with the participation of all local MPs, in order to have a genuinely open dialogue on the basis of concrete studies and proposals for the development of Thrace. I am committed to trying to strengthen national security, national defence, to shield these difficult moments in our relationship with Turkey, and further to the sensitive and very important Thrace and the wider - because I see other Members - Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, since I myself am from there. I congratulate you once again and thank you for the excellent cooperation we have had over the past period. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Courides. Just for the press to say that the Prime Minister has made a request to the Conference of Presidents. The President and the Conference of Presidents will end up in the intergroup committee. Just for the guy. No one doubts what will happen. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Stavros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Starting to earn some time, to submit some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, the Government and the Treasury, along with the implementation of the plan to deal with the economic consequences and consequences of the coronary pandemic, continue to promote structural reforms in order to preserve and stimulate the dynamic Greek economy. To this end, he tabled the draft law under discussion with a view to reforming, strengthening and modernising corporate governance of public limited companies and the capital market. I'll come back to this. We are talking about a corporate governance law that existed since 2002. Corporate governance, as indicated by the same term, refers to the way in which a company is run. Under the narrower, but more widespread version of the definition, which is also adopted in this draft law, corporate governance is primarily about listed public limited companies, where they appear strongly, because of the comparatively strong multi-participating composition, the problem of the distinction between shareholders and owners, on the one hand, and the management of the company, on the other. This separation inevitably leads to an important problem, precisely because of the ability of the managers to run the company, within the power conferred on them, for their own benefit and not to the benefit of shareholders-owners, which is known as a representative issue. In this context, corporate governance introduces regulations and mechanisms in order to ensure that the interests of the management of companies are subject to the general corporate interest, but also to the interest of their shareholders - owners, and hence to effectively address the problem I have just mentioned, the problem of representation. Under this perspective the corporate governance rules, such as those proposed in the draft law, constitute additional mechanisms for controlling companies and balancing the interests of operators of the company, beyond the regulations of company law and the law of the capital market. In general, the corporate governance system in Greece is structured on two pillars, on two levels. At first level, the state, as we do in this draft law, introduces the minimum, legally binding and binding rules of good administration of companies. At second level companies, assisted by codes of governance that have developed market operators, can adopt but also implement even more detailed and demanding regulations, principles and corporate governance practices. Therefore, good corporate governance contributes decisively to the creation of sound, transparent and efficient corporate organisation, management and culture, with obvious significant benefits for creating growth opportunities and ensuring a competitive advantage for these enterprises. In particular, the adoption and implementation of best corporate governance mechanisms contribute decisively to achieving the following positive results for companies: Firstly, implementing procedures that support good governance creates the necessary confidence in all the interested parties of the company, what we often invoke in Greece as starters, for example shareholders, workers, creditors, local communities, which allows for the development of stronger and longer-term links. Secondly, corporate governance mechanisms allow companies themselves to identify directly and effectively address any weaknesses, omissions, errors, failures, effectively reducing the possibility of a crisis and the costs that this entails. Thirdly, transparency and accountability are strengthened, a sense of responsibility is cultivated and the company's staff are stimulated. Fourthly, the introduction of corporate decision-making mechanisms following a weighting of the interests of all interested parties creates a responsible attitude, creates a wider vision and a much stronger incentive for all members of the company to participate actively in order to maximise corporate value. Fifthly, the adoption of best corporate governance standards strengthens the company’s adaptability to the changing environment and even strengthens its own competitiveness. Sixth, good corporate governance strengthens the company's credibility and improves its external financing possibilities and conditions. Finally, seventhly, the implementation of best corporate governance practices by the leadership of companies enhances the effectiveness and efficiency of business through the integration of common values at all levels of the company, which further strengthens the confidence links of all production factors. With these criteria, on these lines, on these pillars and on these priorities, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed draft law which has been formulated following a fruitful and constructive consultation with market operators, with the parties to counter-population, but also with extensive public consultation, is modern as it responds to new trends and reforms the existing legislative framework which - I repeat - has been in force since 2002. It is also compatible with corporate governance models in force in other Member States of the European Union and is consistent as it overall regulates the legislative framework for corporate governance and introduces rules that meet the increased requirements set by the modern capital market. It is targeted to ensure the effective compliance of the company with the new framework and to ensure transparency. And finally, it is also flexible as it enables companies to adapt their obligations to the size and complexity of their activities. In particular, the provisions introduced update the legislative framework for corporate governance of public limited companies. The new framework, on the one hand, meets the increased requirements laid down by the modern capital market and, on the other, does not affect the company's functional and decisive autonomy governed by corporate legislation, as well as by existing legislation on the capital market. At the same time, it seeks to clarify issues that have sometimes dealt with both legal and theory. In particular, a detailed set of provisions governing the functioning of the board of directors of listed companies is introduced. Among other things, the obligation of listed companies to have a policy of suitability when selecting members of the Board of Directors, both individually and collectively. It is intended that the Board of Directors shall be composed of persons capable and appropriate to exercise their responsibilities in the most effective manner ever in relation to the size and business characteristics of the company in question. In addition, there is a detailed provision for specific responsibilities and fields of responsibility of the Management Board, express provision for the minimum obligations and responsibilities of the Executive Board and for the non-executive members of the Management Board, as well as for the significant strengthening of the role of the independent members of the Management Board. Secondly, two new - beyond the Audit Committee - committees of the board of directors aiming to ensure effective and rational company compliance with the legislative framework are introduced. It is the remuneration committee on the one hand, the work of which is to meet the requirements of the company law on the formation and control of the company's remuneration policy and the Committee on Candidates on the other hand, whose work is to formulate and submit proposals to the Governing Council for the selection of persons as members, always taking into account factors and criteria according to the policy of suitability. Thirdly, with the legislative initiatives that we incorporated into the committee, the main task of regulatory compliance is to establish and implement appropriate policies and procedures in order to achieve the company's full and lasting compliance with the current regulatory framework in good time. Fourthly, the required organisational structures of the company are substantially upgraded. The company is now required to adopt and implement a corporate governance system depending on the size, nature, scope and complexity of its activities. Provision is made for the adoption of a regulation of the company, a summary of which is published on its website. In addition, there is provision for a regulation which should include, inter alia, organisational structure, prevention policies and procedures, conflict-of-interest situations, the process of managing privileged information and informing the public and the sustainable development policy of the company. While the company's obligation to apply a corporate governance code is also provided for. Fifth, clear and specific information obligations are introduced by the company to shareholders and the investment audience. It is envisaged that a company should post on its website a detailed CV of the candidate members of the board of directors and explain the reasons why it proposes them. The responsibilities of the shareholders service unit shall be reflected, which shall ensure that the shareholders are informed and informed promptly and on an equal footing and on their support for the exercise of their rights. A company communication unit shall be established with the responsibility to properly inform the investment public in compliance with the applicable legislative framework, and the supervisory competence of the Securities and Market Committee shall be determined and penalties provided for in the event of an infringement, taking into account, inter alia, the gravity of the infringement, the impact of the infringement on the orderly functioning of the market and the degree of liability. In addition to these provisions on corporate governance, the draft law also introduces provisions on the development of the modern capital market, as well as provisions on the organisation, management and operation of the capital market committee. In particular, issues relating to the establishment, licensing, operation and disposal of Alternative Investment Agencies are regulated and the legislative framework on publication requirements in cases of public securities supply or when securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market is changed. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, this draft law aims at more effective and transparent corporate governance of public limited companies, while adapting the existing framework for the operation of the capital market to the newest Greek and European data with a view to increasing its competitiveness. In addition, it contributes to the protection of shareholders and investors, attracting international investors and facilitating the creation of flexible forms of Alternative Investment Entities, including to boost investment to newly-born companies. We hope that companies will take their own share of responsibility, demonstrating the required degree of compliance with the rules and corporate governance codes, which will strengthen the investment climate with a view to the country's high economic growth. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law also includes provisions that are further to show that the Ministry of Finance, even within the junction of the krone, implements reforms and promotes investment, with a view to strengthening the productivity and structural competitiveness of the Greek economy. Firstly, the use of public property is progressing, as is the Greek. The proposed provision makes a decisive, a necessary step - there will be more - for the realisation of the investment. We introduce the procedure to proceed with the distribution of real estate between the GOI and the Greek State, a process that is essential to complete the transaction between the GOI and the preferred investor. Furthermore, property that will be fully owned by the GOI is to be taken care of in order to develop the business plan of the preferred investor with homogeneity and uniform rules for all those who acquire rights within the “Metropolitan Pole of Greek – Agios Kosmas”. This concern is reflected in the adoption of a special regulation which will be made public - for reasons of transparency and security - of transactions and which will specify terms and conditions to be concluded on issues of morphological characteristics of structures, aesthetic uniformity and a number of other issues. Of course, the regulation cannot conflict with mandatory rules, i.e. any private agreement cannot ignore the current legislation of the Greek state. Some questions were asked. There is no question of the intervention of the GOI. No change in the provision of the contract. The real estate is distributed under the stock sale contract, which was ratified by Law 4422/2016 at the government of SYRIZA, 70% public and 30% government. Secondly, the establishment of the regulation, as I said a moment ago, on the properties of the HICP, on which the right to surface will be established - I repeat - to serve the security of trade and publicity and to protect those who are going to acquire property rights in that area, in that they will be known in advance - I repeat, in order to be very clear - the terms and conditions which may be borne by the property they are going to acquire. The reintroduction after ninety years of the right to land to the owner of the ground, irrespective of the legal form of the company TDIDE in future, is returning to the public, not to the GOI. At the moment, the Greek state with 70% and TIADED with 30% are indivisible. Its object in distribution cannot be "ELELANDS S.A." as it does not have ownership. Initially, the property will be distributed autonomously between the Greek State and the GOI and then the GOI will transfer the properties that it will now have in full ownership of the Hellenic Republic S.A... I'm closing for the Greek. The proposed provision is merely the definition of the methodology of a given procedure as provided for in Law 4422/2016 on the Government of SYRIZA. Secondly, the use of public property, such as that of the regional ports of Volos and Alexandroupolis, is indeed promoted. We're picking up the thread from where SYRIZA's government left it. The regional ports were integrated from 31-1-2017 into the operational recovery programme, i.e. the ADP of TEAD, which was approved under CYSOP 63 decision No 17-5-2017. I filed it in the Minutes. The proposed provision removes significant obstacles which the previous government had, which were delaying their exploitation, acting dissuasively for potential investors. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I want two, three more minutes to develop both the amendments and make an overall position. In particular, the management of the property of the OSE which is part of a land area of a port, so that the management and exploitation of the areas of the port area are not fragmented, but entrusted to a single body of the port concerned with clear limits of its liability. This is done, in fact, without prejudice to the ownership of the OSE or its responsibilities as railway infrastructure manager. At the same time, the interests of GIAOSE are protected. This is because the relevant provision provides for the payment of compensation to GIAOSE, which is laid down by a joint decision of the Ministers for Finance, Infrastructure and Transport and Maritime Policy. And there was a relevant press release together, my own, the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport and the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy yesterday, which I also present in the Minutes, as far as other problems, for example, existed in Alexandroupolis concerning the expropriation of certain acres within the terrestrial zone of the port are concerned, precisely so that we can move forward with the use of the asset. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thirdly, I have referred to that, ladies and gentlemen of Northern Greece a moment ago, who have given a real fight not only in recent months, but also in previous years. Industrial, craft and mining enterprises located in border regions of the country shall be supported. The proposed provision solves a long-standing problem facing businesses in particular in Thrace. The question of the unpaid financial claims of the beneficiary companies up to 31-12-2015, which were not paid by the OAED for five years by means of a netting agreement with existing and future public requirements, such as taxes and social security contributions, is addressed, so that there is no doubt about the undertakings. A prerequisite for clearing the claims of those beneficiaries who have brought an action or an instrument for claiming such sums shall be their prior resignation. The regulation supports the viability of these enterprises and strengthens their perspectives. Finally, fourthly, it promotes the uninterrupted conduct of public auctions of pending special winding-up procedures with a view to defending the public interest and restructuring of public undertakings. This is a literally transitional provision that is adapted to the needs that have arisen as a result of the health crisis. In conclusion and on the basis of the proposed provisions it is shown that the aim of the Ministry of Finance and of the government as a whole is high, sustainable and inclusive economic growth, so that they can be created throughout Greece - and in Northern Greece and Thrace - qualitative and well-paid jobs. With vision, design, confidence in our powers, confidence and hard work, step by step overcoming the great but temporary difficulties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Minister. On behalf of Mera25 Mr Arsenis followed by the Change Movement by Mr Katrinis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Members and MPs said in the previous bill that it was a very positive surprise that there was no photographic amendment for the Greek. The positive surprises are over, so we returned to normality and now each bill has its photographic provision for the Greek. This is another fine amendment for the Greek. Our national investor managed and got unprecedented state aid and from a company with financial hardship in 2012 - I will repeat the information that exists in the FEK - and while he had losses of EUR 51 million, own capital of EUR 330 million, EUR 593 million loan commitments, credit claims in real estate of EUR 192.3 million, he managed to increase with all your efforts. The bill contains photographic provisions with an increase in the capital of EUR 650 million, and this amendment comes just before the bids were submitted on July 15 to 17 for the EUR 320 million bond that our national investor, who is not willing to invest anything but our own economies, and that is the essence. By way of derogation from any general or special provision, there is a procedure for the preparation of the contract between the Greek State and TIADE for the distribution of the properties of the metropolitan pole of Greek and the amendment will mean how the right to the above property will be established and how the fillets to be granted to the investor will be safeguarded. Now why are all of this defined by law? There is also a contract for the distribution of a land right between the Greek State and the GOI. Why all this by law? Are you afraid of being offended to the Council of State? You forget that there is a case-law of the Council of State. I would remind you that there is a case-law in the case of Mall, our own strategic national investor, that a law that conceals an administrative act can be insulted. The amendment lays down a two-speed system which restricts even the owners' own rights, the investor. The "ELLENIC S.A." that will be transferred to the investor, unless the Council of State decides otherwise, will be able to recommend and amend unilaterally a notarily notarily notary document of regulations, restrictions or obligations that may be submitted in the form of limited personal duties in favour of "ELLENIC S.A." in the specific property. In other words, it will change the specific conditions of use by the buyers concerned. However, not all buyers will have the same treatment. The company may exclude from the regulation restrictions or obligations which it likes. I mean, we're not just creating a private city. We create a city where the owner – manager in the Greek, our national investor will have rights that no other seller – owner – has in any other location of the Greek area. And these are shocking. Major buyers may find themselves in very unpleasant surprises. It was written that the legislative safeguarding of distribution of property in Greek - your amendment - solves the company's hands to proceed with the sale of luxurious dwellings in the first half of 2021. It is impressive that this is done and promoted before the appeals are dealt with in the Council of State. Indeed, you have chosen the President of the Republic from this institution, but we see that you do not really care about the decisions and decisions of the administration from this institution. The hearing at the hearing on one appeal has been held on 16 September, Minister, while the first appeal on 6 March has not yet been decided. Let's see the big picture. As a government you announced as flagrant investments this Greek, hydrocarbons mining and gold mining skouries. In Greek, one year later, with the financial hardship of the investor, you have come to do at our own expense some tears. Hydrocarbon extraction - with your own declarations - has gone to the bells and Skouria, following the decision of the Council of State, in practice is illegal and cannot go ahead with the project, as the technical specifications cannot be continued, they do not apply, they have fallen. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please, Mr President, a little more time. Now there is another investment, of course, Minister, in Zakynthos. It's the Emir of Qatar's investment in 2.5% of the area of Zakynthos. And Mr. Georgiadis goes out publicly and supports her, but to find out that this company of Emir of Qatar has bought nothing, as the man who sold it had nothing in his hands, and the procedure is in court and proceedings are initiated and against the CEO of this company. We also learn that this company doesn't even belong to Emir of Qatar. Illegality, fraud, businessmen who do nothing, if they don't give all the public, if they don't have a guarantee - profits in the public sector, if you don't give up public property, if you don't change the law to make the illegal law over and over and over again. These are your terrible flagrant investments, at the same time that you are pulling out of their offices and shops the people who actually produce employment and public revenue in that country, the small and medium-sized businessmen, the real businessmen to whom you evict through “HRAKLI”. You give 12 billion, Minister, to these funds and to their Greek shareholders, who at some point need to know who they are, instead of giving them to the real economy and strengthening real entrepreneurship, rather than giving them to these small and medium-sized businessmen who produce employment and public revenues. This is your vision for Greece and, unfortunately, we will be faced with it, Minister. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr Arsenis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, I would like to ask two questions about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u51	After Mr. Katrin, Mr. Hatzyannakis. Mr. Katrinis now has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u52	Minister, I would like you to give us some clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u53	Minister, because Mr. Hatzyanakis said he wanted to ask you two questions, will you stay in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u54	I have the institutions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u55	With the tolerance of Mr Katrin, here, Mr Hatzigiannakis, you have the floor to ask your questions to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, thank you and Mr Katrin. Mr Minister, because it may also depend on the attitude we take to the subject of the amendment, we want to clarify this. In Article 1 of the amendment, where the distribution contract is obviously ratified and ratified by the law, it is rightly stated that there will be an attached distribution diagram. Will it be the same as the original purchase, or will it be amended? We want this to be clarified in order to know whether there is actually a substantial change in the contract, whether it is concealed or not. One is that. Secondly, because there is a blockage - and that is what has been confused with us - in relation to the recital to the regulation, will the regulation concern only the part that will have the full ownership of the TIADED and thus also the 'Hellenic S.A.' or 70%? Because it is clear in the provision of the law, but in the explanatory statement there is also the right to surface, so 70%, but there is also a reference to the cavalry and the beach that is outside the transaction from what we know outside the contract. To clarify this, then, so that we know exactly what the amendment will include. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u57	Minister, will you answer now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u58	Let Mr Katrinis speak first, Mr President, and then I will give the answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u59	Good, Minister. Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the shadow of the deterioration of economic indicators, and just before Haul's bourgeoisie opens up for first-haul auctions, 15 days before the end of the protection, we still have no clear position on whether to extend it and what is the form and content of the new bankruptcy law, because we have heard too much for loan subsidies and for the property management body of natural and legal persons who will end up without having seen anything - and I expect, Minister, a clear position from you - we are discussing a bill that is late in this House, despite the fact that the provisions that have been proposed by the Securities Committee for many months now. The previous government, of course, because of ideological turbulence, has not exploited the proposals that had been put forward on its day so that these issues can be regulated. And that is something that does not surprise us, because SYRIZA has demonised the markets, when what was needed was proper regulation, so that they can contribute to growth and increase the liquidity gaps in small and medium-sized enterprises. On the other hand, the government which ideologically stands in favour of self-regulation of the markets, after a year of government, brings a bill rather technical, as I could call it, which is essentially a simple update of corporate governance issues. And the debate is taking place on a stock market that has lost nearly 17 billion in the first half of 2020, for a market that has dropped by 3.88% last week, despite the positive climate that prevailed on most European markets, for a market that is the third worst in Europe characterised by foreign capital fleeing, inertia of domestic investors and, unfortunately, presents a scene of the collapse of trade activity. And instead of your aim is to introduce many companies, you maintain a centralised system that serves interests of banks and a few large listed businesses. We are therefore talking about corporate governance rules for listed companies. How many are these listed companies at last? How many companies, Minister, have they voluntarily chosen no longer to negotiate on the stock exchange and how many have they not published their financial data? We want you to respond honestly to this. We are talking about an anemic institutional framework which allows a company to set up a subsidiary anywhere in the world, in which the Securities and Market Committee of course does not have access. We are talking about a framework that allows the consolidation of balance sheets without the committee being able to control them itself. We are talking about companies that have declared cash assets for many years, without dispensing dividends and without these assets being controlled. We are talking about a procedure that is so simple, but also so brief. And not generally speaking, the FOLLI FOLLIE case highlighted the institutional inadequacy of the Securities and Exchange Commission, which did not care for the effective protection of investors, thereby undermining both the credibility of the committee and the stock exchange. Reports, of course, were made years ago for tempted balance sheets, without causing any interest from the then management of the capital market committee. Did the data be checked on the basis of a mandate from the Securities and Markets Committee? Did it send any evidence from Hong Kong or did we not know that both China and Hong Kong do not respond to requests for legal aid? No, of course not. The company that took over on behalf of FOLLI FOLLIE to check the financial data sent a finding to the prosecutor Dratsis, whose thorough work revealed many aspects of the case, which would have been unknown to date. Cases such as this, but also several that saw the light of publicity shake the credibility of the investors and highlight the institutional failure. While both the Securities Committee and the stock market itself should be an essential development mechanism for the territory, unfortunately there remains a mechanism for a few. That should, ladies and gentlemen, be the subject and content of our debate, the functioning of the capital market institutions and not act as if we were not to see and limit ourselves to technical. So will you be interested in the important things, or will you prefer the level of armoring of the investors to be determined by a few brokers? And what protection are we talking about when the mutual fund may not in future be able to cover the compensation of investors from misuse of brokers? Will you continue to tolerate distortions between participants, which do not form a competitive environment compared to other European countries? In recent years, the stock market has only been mobility in the light of developments, and this is in line with the circumstances. When these are favourable, the positive impact of increased revenue is fruitful, and when the circumstances are not favourable, the neutrality justifys neutrality and does not play a substantial role in the economy, while few of the listed companies show some investment meaning. That's the reality. As far as tax provisions are concerned, it is the right direction to extend the time-limit for payment of tax obligations. But we should also see the real facts. The certified revenue for 2020 will reach EUR 7 billion, when the recession is between 8% and 10%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We have a deterioration in the economic climate of 1%, according to the recent study by IOBE, at the same time as in the Eurozone there is a recovery of 8.2% for May, after the fall of March and April. The dues are increased by 545 million in March 2020 compared to the corresponding previous period. We have a descent in the retail trade, and you only reduce rents in certain sectors. You saw the reaction of both the HSY and the Athens Commercial Association calling for the universal application of the reduction of rents throughout the retail sector. And, of course, with regard to the end of a trade, the abolition of which you have announced for farmers, we as a Change Movement have insisted on reducing it overall for professionals. All this creates a suffocating economic climate, ladies and gentlemen, on which this debate is taking place. We, of course, as a Change Movement, have placed ourselves in a positive position on this bill. We believe, however, that it is necessary to strengthen and modernise even further both the corporate governance framework and the supervisory authorities, so that the capital market can finally play its part as a key source of raising resources for Greek entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor on the questions. Mr Amanatidis will be followed on behalf of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u62	The SYRIZA rapporteur is missing, but I have already given him answers. I would like to give them in public too. In my prototype, in fact, I answered additional questions because I learned reasonable concerns raised by the Qualified Opposition, and that is why I gave concrete answers. In answer to two questions, I would say that the chart is one. The Regulation shall apply to the part where there will be complete ownership of the Hellenic Republic. In other Members' questions, why did we bring a law, I say that there can be no contract of classics, as the recital itself says - I am not referring to you, but to other colleagues - the property cannot now be identified and the necessary certificates issued. As far as other questions are concerned about what we will do with the bankruptcy or what we will do with the bridge programme or what we will do with liquidity, we have answered many times. I think we have a meeting in Parliament on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u63	Mr Amanatidis has the floor on behalf of the New Democracy, followed by Mr Athanasios Ljupis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a few days after the vote on the micro-credits bill, where a admirer was achieved, I would say - let me express the parties' views - the Ministry of Finance brings the bill on corporate governance of public limited companies, aimed at modernising the operation of listed companies, to shield the interests of shareholders - especially small shareholders - and to make the Athens Stock Exchange more attractive to institutional and foreign investors. This draft law is another decisive step by the Government to stimulate growth and to assist entrepreneurship. Under the draft law, anonymous companies are treated as a complex and multifactorial system, which should operate in procedures, comply with agreed rules, i.e. rules, and check whether they are complied with, ensure a minimum quality and adequacy, distinguished for the allocation of roles on criteria, operate in participatory procedures, have a corporate governance system, rules of operation, a self-control system and other provisions. In particular, the legal framework for corporate governance of public limited companies with listed shares or other securities on a regulated market in Greece is updated in Part One. I am very pleased to note that, for the usefulness of this draft law, there is an absolute agreement, both by the bodies called upon to express their views and by the rapporteurs of the parties who have heard the previous days. Of course, it's no accident. Two are the reasons for making this draft law absolutely necessary. Firstly, the existing law dating back to 2002, which regulates the capital market, the stock market and all operators, is now outdated and the need for modernisation is imperative. On the subject of today's draft law, too much has been changed on the international financial markets. New trends, new practices, new products require corresponding adjustments ahead of time and the prospect of unification of European financial markets. I believe that no one disputes the fact that there can be no European Union of capital markets without a single European supervisory authority, which of course ensures transparency and investor protection. We need a competitive capital market, namely the possibility of raising capital for our businesses, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, in rules and in terms of transparency. Secondly, in the wake of related scandals, this draft law is necessary for the investor, who must be protected. But it is also necessary for the financial system that should inspire confidence, credibility and security. In particular, Article 3 mentioned to the committee that the term 'appropriateness' introduced by the draft law involves vagueness, which may make it difficult to control the assistance of the conditions of the law. By listening to this view and in the context of legislative improvements, the Ministry authorises by a new regulation the Securities Committee to define the content of the term ‘suitability’ within two months of the publication of the law. It has been heard in committee that the government has a typology of punishment. How is the necessary tightening up of penalties to be identical to a punishing simple logic? So how can they be identified? Is it or is it not necessary to tighten up? I think the scandals of recent years leave no room for a negative answer. When, as has been said, the motive is high, it must also be equal. The Ministry, and on this issue, takes the appropriate measures, through a legislative arrangement. Continuing, I would say that the issues relating to the organisation, management and operation of the Securities and Markets Committee are being dealt with. The Securities and Exchange Commission, i.e. the stockholder, is of key importance and there is a clear and expressed political will of the Government to strengthen it as much as possible. It is very important to say that the government has proposed a quasi-institutional innovation involving the strengthening of the Securities Committee with participation in the Board of Directors of the President of ELTE, namely the sworn accountants. It has also been mentioned to the committee that this draft law does not give the necessary incentives. Indeed, it is. It was also said by the Minister. That is why I was very pleased to welcome Mr Zavvos' statement that at the present time a special committee consisting of all the players on the capital market is preparing concrete proposals so that there can be those incentives that will give, on the one hand, the necessary competitiveness on the capital market and, on the other, the extroversion. In conclusion, let me turn to a number of regulations which have not been heard very much in the fourth part. These are that the income tax of legal persons and entities for the tax year 2019 is regulated, an incentive is provided for the one-off payment of -2% and the doses of HISPIA are also increased. In the light of these interventions, by closing down, I support this draft law both for the innovations it introduces and for the necessity in the banking system to continuously improve, following the messages of the times and trends of the pan-European market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, too. Mr Lippes has the floor from New Democracy, followed by Mr.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, at an international economic situation such as the one we are experiencing, where insecurity and uncertainty prevail, it was absolutely essential to update the legal framework for the operation of listed companies so that there is strict control and legal certainty. The first part of today's bill regulates corporate governance rules of public limited companies that have shares listed in the regulated market. The company is required to have a policy of appropriateness for members of its board of directors, so that the conditions for the selection of such persons and the general features that make them appropriate are laid down. Significant at this point, the representation of both sexes by at least one quarter of the total number of members of the board of directors, in an obvious effort to strengthen the role of women, which are much less chosen than men. The current rates are very disappointing and the regulations introduced seek to limit the exclusion of women from these posts. Equally worthwhile is the provision which obliges there to be diversity in the selection of members of the board of directors. The company is required to set up two new committees: the remuneration committee and the Candidates Committee, which are recommended to the Management Board for their matters of competence, aiming at alleviating disputes in these internal matters. One of the main obligations of the companies in this form is to have an adequate internal audit system and a corresponding internal audit unit which is independent and responsible for monitoring the procedures and for complying with the rules of operation. The bill includes a specific chapter on investor information. The Shareholder Service Unit is responsible for providing all shareholders with equal information on all issues and on their legal rights. The Company Communications Unit shall inform shareholders and public about the applicable legislation. Of course there is a regulation on sanctions imposed in the event of a breach of corporate governance provisions. The Securities and Exchange Committee shall be entrusted with the responsibility for specialising the system for the enforcement of such penalties. It increases up to EUR 1 million the financial fine imposed on sworn accountants if they violate legislation in the performance of their duties, aiming at a fairer and more effective system of penalties, based on the principle of proportionality. It is crucial to prevent such phenomena of unreliable audit reports that mislead investors. In this context, the Securities Committee is being strengthened by increasing the number of employees it can recruit in order to effectively fulfil its key supervisory role. In the fourth part of the bill, there are tax legislation arrangements. There is a one-off deduction of the tax to natural persons, as is facilitated by increasing the instalments of the EMI from five to six. In any case, listed companies obey stricter rules regarding their governance and action. However, it was necessary to modernise their operating framework to enhance transparency and make shareholders' best access - and especially small shareholders - to all information. Ensuring that legality is respected is in the interests of not only each company and its investors, but also of the entire stock exchange system, which is strictly necessary with a view to regaining its credibility and with a prospect of development. The attraction of investment requires a stable, modern and secure legal framework for control, ensuring the proper functioning of the Greek capital market. All this is achieved with today's bill. That is why there is so much consensus on the new provisions. It remains the application of the new arrangements to deliver the expected results and give new impetus to listed companies and to the Greek stock exchange system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u69	Here you go, Mr. Besyropoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, I would like to table a legal improvement for Article 1 of the amendment, which I shall be presenting in my speech shortly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u71	I would like to ask you to take a photo and give Members a better picture of the situation. The floor is raised by Mr. Pschakis from New Democracy, followed by Mrs. Papanatsiou or Mr. Kavvas. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion of the Ministry of Finance promotes key structural changes and reforms. The aim is to facilitate investment and strengthen productivity and competitiveness of the Greek economy. The rapporteur of the New Democracy and the relevant ministers have done away with the matter. I will refer to two issues that promote growth and enhance entrepreneurship in Evros and Thrace and are good news for my country, which this year celebrates the centimeters of our liberation. Provision is made for the removal of major obstacles which delayed the development of key regional ports in the country, such as that of the port of Alexandroupolis. The issue of expropriation of 195 acres within the terrestrial zone of the local port and the zone of GAIA OSE is being addressed. As far as area compensation is concerned, Mr Ministers, for good there is the best and best. A second look would be useful, and even when it is sought and applied out by the owners. I was pleased by the Minister for Finance, who had a pioneering idea, and I believe that the common place will be found. Thank you, Minister, by all the representatives of the business world and also by workers in their businesses. These thanks in fact relate to the amendment that settles the company's outstanding financial claims in relation to the payroll subsidy of 12%. I am conveying you the gratitude and recognition of the government's consistency. I would remind you that the work subsidy of 12% of Thrace's businesses has been an institutionalised aid since 1976, as has evolved over time from all governments, except those who have fortunately abstained. However, it has ceased to be paid, even late, to the undertakings in the region in the first half of 2015. The undertakings in this regard declared the aid in their balance sheets, paid the tax and received the amount in question within a reasonable time, without ever completing the five-year limitation period of the State’s debt to natural persons and not only. However, despite these delays, the State becomes overdue to the payment of the debts liable only by the SYRIZA Government. The Commission's position of the Minister responsible, Mr Stathakis, followed that this aid was contrary to European law. Businesses have resorted to costly legal remedies, suffered a great deal of hardship and is justified by anger to the state. Today this injustice is restored. The current government was listening to the bell through the parliamentary control I have been exercising for four and a half years as the only opposition Thracian MEP. I have come to the European Parliament through the European Parliament Maria Spirakis. Currently, the issue of the unpaid financial claims of the beneficiaries for 2010-2015 is dealt with definitively. The amounts due are offset by existing and future government requirements such as taxes, insurance contributions and others. This is a great justice to all the coordinated efforts that have taken lately to this day. It is given life to the businesses in the region, while at the same time restoring the confidence of entrepreneurs and workers vis-à-vis the state. With this amendment, but also with the recent proposal by the Prime Minister on the establishment of a cross-party committee on the development of Thrace, the Government's interest in the nationally sensitive region of Thrace is demonstrated. Mr Minister, the relevant clarification of the Rules of Procedure, which will be issued and specified, should also provide for certain categories of undertakings. In the period during which many companies closed down, went bankrupt or transferred their seat to tax havens from neighbouring countries. These actions have arisen either because of an economic crisis or because of a need for survival. If it is possible to save even one undertaking from them by offsetting debts, it is important to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, the financial instrument for subsidising wage costs is now officially abolished. Thrace expects equivalent development measures that will enhance entrepreneurship in our region, always in line with the spirit of European law and spirit that encourages and strengthens economic and social convergence measures for disadvantaged regions with the other regions of the European Union. The Government of New Democracy, led by our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, bent over Thrace and Evros with affection, as we are. The Immigration Crisis, as well as the promptness of the Prime Minister, have launched new developments for our country. The first steps are already being taken and the work and conclusions of the Intergroup on Thrace Development are expected with joy and anxiety. Armored in every way Thrace means strong Greece. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Treasury. Mrs Papanatsiou has the floor from the Radical Left coalition. Then Mr. Kavada and the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Besiropoulos, follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the bill comes at a difficult time for the Greek economy, at a time when the market cannot achieve what neoliberalism tends to be, self-regulation. The pandemic has shown that we need to discuss what state we want. Is there a need for a strong state that controls and intervenes, or does we want it to be a mere refugee for market failures? In our opinion, all the necessary measures must be taken to ensure that businesses do not act uncontrolledly. On this basis, we understand this side of the bill. It is a matter that our government has dealt with. Of course, whether it operates the framework laid down by the bill, it will in practice. We have reservations. We have also heard bodies put themselves in favour of regulating corporate governance issues through non-compulsory acts. I would like to focus on the possibility of paying the tax for the year 2019 in more monthly instalments, but also the ENVY year 2020 as well. This is a limited facility, since an extension of the income tax has been granted for only two months and respectively of HISPIA for just one instalment. Every facility for the citizens is, of course, welcome by us. Minister, you have chosen a restrictive policy in support of business and workers. Since the beginning of the pandemic, we have stressed the need for forward measures. Require our proposals and choose to proceed with suspensions and extensions. How do you expect citizens to be able to meet their monthly obligations after the restrictive measures have been lifted? We have heard the Prime Minister announcing new aid measures. I repeat, every support for our citizens is in agreement, but some points from the announcement must be discussed. Especially for the tax advance payment measure, we must note that there is already a regulation: Article 70 and 71 of VAT - you know that very well, Mr Minister - which provides for a reduction in VAT if there is a reduced turnover of more than 25%. This means that if the measure is not permanent and horizontal, it simply switches the liquidity problem over the coming years. In other words, it turns the tax advance into a refunder, as you do. The benefit of this measure which will be profitable in subsequent uses will be called upon to pay an advance at 100%. We're waiting for the bill you'll bring us to see exactly how you put it. The cycle of the Greek economy that starts with the consumption of households and brings movement into the market and growth in the turnover of businesses has been shattered by your restrictive economic policy. You've got to answer us. How do you expect the citizens to cope with their debts which are slowly being imposed by public funds? What does the government plan to protect professionals and workers from financially difficult months to come on the basis that new debts will be created after the restrictions have been lifted? I dare say that spasmist movements characterise your policy. You have put an amendment to the vote, for example today. Let's see what's foreseen in it. You will be able to transfer double space within the port zone to health stores in order to develop more bank seats by 31 October 2020. But without citizens' support and immediate liquidity, who do you think will fill the banks? You don't live in this country? Do you think the situation is dealt with by spatial provisions? You do not, of course, forget to turn the crisis once again into an opportunity. Replace a partial provision under Article 14 of the Habitats Act of the Government of SYRIZA, which provided for the possibility of authorising works for the installation of pipelines and cables for very specific purposes, associated with the use of the saint, such as works by seafarers, works for public purposes or for environmental protection or water-growing projects. We were asking and consciously exempting tourist purposes so that this public good would not be subject to over-exploitation. So you come today to give this possibility to hotel accommodation. Where are they targeting such settings? On the occasion of the pandemic you are modifying provisions that protect the cavalry and make its alteration permanent. You are, of course, moving forward with regulations relating to port agencies. You are attempting to regulate the use of the properties of GAIAOSE located in the terrestrial port area of which the port organisation concerned is supervised. So what are you doing? You grant these properties to the port agency in question, stating that you have to pay a mere fee, as you demarcate it, in return for the OSE. And why? To satisfy the individuals. Not for the use of ports, of course, as the SYRIZA government would have done, as Mr Stagioras said before. And because Volos is one of the two most important ports that you are aiming to exploit in this way, namely the sale, I must tell you that the study of the University of Thessaly is under way in collaboration with GAIAOSE and OLAB, which aims to develop all the counties in the region of Thessaly. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, with your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u75	Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much. It gives the opportunity to develop through the use of combined transport provided by the geographical area concerned as it combines an airport, a train, a port and a road network. How, ladies and gentlemen, will the development of the wider area and also of the city of Volos itself be achieved if the exclusive exploitation of the area is granted to a private person? What undeniable need for the private person do you think will help to make use of the port for the benefit of the city, let alone coupled with the other possibilities of the region for the benefit of Thessaly? Let us not laugh, ladies and gentlemen, you do not care about development in terms of society, but about marketing everything for the benefit of the few and the strong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Papanatsiu. And from SYRIZA to New Democracy, we're going to Mr. Athanasios Kavada from the beautiful Lefkada, where you go by car.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u78	It's accessible. Thank you, Mr President, for your reference to Lefkada once again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u79	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u80	And not only is Lefkada an accessible island, but it has the best and most beautiful beaches in the world, not in Greece, Porto Katsiki, Enremnoi, Gialos, the Cathism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u81	Greece is the most beautiful plot on earth.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u82	Porto Katsiki is one of the top ten beaches in the world. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the capital market and the stock market are a lever for economic growth. A prerequisite, however, is the creation of a framework of transparency and confidence in their operation. After all, we all remember what happened just twenty years ago at the Greek Stock Exchange and how much it cost Greek small investors. This draft law establishes a framework for transparency in the operation of companies tailored to the best European standards. The objectives of this effort are primarily focused on the creation of an integrated framework for the protection and safeguarding of shareholders and investors' rights. Secondly, the sovereignty of transparency rules in corporate governance. Thirdly, to strengthen the supervisory and supervisory role of the Securities and Market Committee. It is also foreseen that a representative of the Audit Committee will be involved in its board of directors. And fourthly, the facilitation of the creation of flexible forms of alternative investment organisations which make up the vehicle to support investments in start up companies. In addition, specific information obligations are laid down by each company to shareholders and the investment audience. Listed companies should have a policy of suitability to members of their board of directors. At the level of transparency and controls, close cooperation between the Securities and Markets Committee and the Audit Committee is enhanced in order to provide new and flexible information exchange mechanisms. At the same time, strict sanctions are provided for in the event of infringements or unlawful action by listed companies. Through the bill we are debating today, a new framework of transparency is being established, but also faith in the Greek stock exchange that is an essential condition for attracting investment. Most of all, however, a corporate governance framework is being formed that sets out the conditions for the development of healthy entrepreneurship. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a given fact that the consequences of pandemic touch the whole range of economic activity, the whole of society. There is an established inability for citizens to fulfil their obligations. Beyond the universal demand for access to sources of liquidity is an important part of the tax facilities. They have listened with great satisfaction to the Prime Minister's announcement that the tax advance on seasonal enterprises active in the tourism sector should be abolished, which is the sector with the greatest exposure to the effects of the crisis. The same applies to exempting the companies concerned from the obligation to pay employers' contributions for the quarter of July - August - September. The third round of the repayable advance announced by the Prime Minister comes to support seasonal enterprises active in tourism as it provides for the integration of non-working individual enterprises and also of cash machine. Obviously, the provisions of Article 83 of the draft law which increases the number of instalments for the repayment of the tax liabilities of natural and legal persons are positive and positive. With the new framework, payment will be made in eight monthly instalments instead of the three quarters envisaged so far. There is also an increase in the number of instalments for the repayment of HNVY in six monthly instalments rather than five that applied to date. I would, however, like to raise another issue that has been raised by the pandemic of accountants and taxpayers who are unable to respond to the volume of work that has been accumulated and due to the pandemic crisis. When it is pending submission of two and a half million tax returns, it is impossible to submit forty thousand declarations every day by 29 July, which is the end date. At the same time, the cash machines of all enterprises must be connected to the TAXISNET process, which is also done by accountants. I believe that the Ministry of Finance is aware of the problems and will give a shorter extension. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] Finally, I would like to refer to a very positive amendment from the Ministry of Maritime Affairs concerning the development of bank seats and umbrellas in land ports from sanitary shops. The regulation also provides for the doubling of the area in which shops are able to occupy, so that the measures for the coronary can be complied with, but also for the shops to be able to operate. If there is no space available, the amendment provides for a 50% discount on the rent for the months of application of the regulation. The arrangements shall apply retroactively from 1 June to 31 October. I would like to thank the Minister, Mr Placiotakis, for responding positively to this request from ten businessmen in Lefkada, but also from all of Greece, who had transferred it from 2 June to a meeting we had in his office. It turns out that, in the midst of a crisis, the government will do what is necessary to help businesses survive while ensuring public health. Ladies and gentlemen, thousands of businesses and workers are trying to stand on their feet. The effort to return the country to positive growth has no participatory features, it has national features. This is how the New Democracy Government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis perceive this effort. And the fact that the index of public confidence and the Prime Minister's acceptance is being confirmed that Greek society recognizes the efforts made by the Prime Minister, its structured thinking and function, its seriousness and the sincerity with which he is addressed to the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, too. Now there is the floor for the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Vessiropoulos, for ten minutes. Then Mr Mamoulakis, a parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, will speak - I say a certain number - then Mr Simopoulos from New Democracy, Mr Paschalides from New Democracy, Mr Famelos from SYRIZA and then Mr Zavvos State Secretary for Finance. Of course, a parliamentary representative may be intervened, but I just read it so that it does not interfere, but speak immediately afterwards. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's legislative work, along with its modernist and reformist instruments, in specific institutional interventions, is combined with key legislative regulations aimed at supporting the citizens and the real economy, but also at reducing the consequences of pandemic. The bill we are debating today focuses on the establishment of rules of control and transparency in the operation and activity of listed companies. The role of the Securities and Exchange Committee, as regards the control and supervision of listed companies and the auditors responsible for supervision, is strengthened. An additional insurance key shall be created in accordance with Article 78, which provides for the participation of a representative of the Accounting Standardisation and Control Committee, supervised by the Ministry of Finance, on the Governing Council of the Securities and Market Committee, with a view to achieving maximum efficiency of the system, in the matters of controls and corporate governance. Through achieving this objective, the climate of confidence in the investment community and micro-investors will also be strengthened. It is an intervention with a strong reformist figure, which sends an undeniably positive message. At the same time, however, as in all the bills to be voted on in the House, we include legislative regulations in the direction of supporting taxpayers. I am referring to Article 83 of the bill, whereby the tax administration seeks to facilitate taxpayers in the process of repaying their obligations. The method chosen is to increase the number of instalments for the payment of the income tax and HISA, as well as to provide facilities, in the form of a discount, for the one-off payment of the tax. In particular, there is provision for repayment in eight monthly instalments of income tax, both for natural and legal persons. I note that to date the income tax has been paid for natural persons in three-monthly instalments, while for legal persons in six monthly instalments. The payment time range for the relevant instalments extends until February 2021. So far, as we know, the ENPI is paid in five monthly instalments. The regulation that we are bringing increases the number of instalments to six, and there is a clear forecast and a statement that in case the tax determination act is issued in September 2020, the first instalment of the EMI should be paid up by 30 September 2020 and the last by 26 February 2021. Another major facility, in the form of a tax deduction, is the arrangement that taxpayers will have a tax deduction of 2% if they pay a one-off tax on income. I must also stress that the validity of these arrangements has retroactive effect. It also includes taxpayers who have already submitted their tax declaration before the relevant legislation is published in the Official Journal of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pretext that dedicated opposition, having to face up to citizens' distrust and issues of moral and political order, cannot reconcile with the idea that the government has not only kept the chapter of confidence in its relations with its citizens intact, but has strengthened it even further. Greek citizens trust Kyriakos Mitsotakis, they appreciate positively the reflexes he has shown in crisis management, the seriousness and effectiveness that characterize his work. The government intervenes targetedly, has taken and will continue to take measures to support businesses, workers and taxpayers. These measures relate to strengthening liquidity and also to tax relief. Despite the criticism, the first round of the repayable advance was completed, in which fifty-two thousand four hundred ninety enterprises shared EUR 602 million in May. In the first round of the repayable advance, twenty - one thousand eighty-five individual enterprises and thirty - one thousand four hundred five legal entities were integrated. The financial support for each undertaking was on average EUR 11,500. The second round of the repayable advance, totalling EUR 1.4 billion, is under way, in which the appropriations are constantly being absorbed. It extends the scope of the beneficiaries, since small and micro-enterprises and micro-enterprises are integrated, even if they were problematic at 31-12-2019 but also individual enterprises without employees having a tax cash machine. It follows that the third round of the repayable advance, to which the companies are incorporated without workers and without a cash-pool of the tourist industry. In principle, the third round of the repayable advance is addressed to seasonal tourist enterprises. At the same time, in the next few days there is a vote in Parliament on another important draft law by the Ministry of Finance, which includes significant interventions, such as the suspension of the obligation to pay the rent for the farmers of normal VAT arrangements, reductions in passenger car tax rates, the establishment of a committee for the tax settlement of tax disputes, which aims to quickly resolve outstanding tax disputes, the possibility for businesses to provide free of charge for workers as an incentive to pay and the introduction of a low tax rate of 15% for workers, with regard to the taxation of goodwill from the sale of shares, the provision of incentives for foreign pensioners to transfer their tax residence to Greece and to subject themselves to alternative taxation of their income of foreign origin, with a tax rate of 7% over a period of 10 years. As I said, this bill, which will include other provisions, will have been passed by the end of the month. You will also allow me a reference to the first two articles in the amendment with a general number of 394 and a special number 55, which are the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. The first article is linked to the concept of sustainable and sustainable development in tourism and to the need to harmonise tourism accommodation on the basis of these principles. In particular, hotels, camping and complex tourist accommodation are allowed to place underwater pipelines and cables for projects such as the installation of biological cleansing, in areas where there is no sewerage network, and desalination for areas where there is no water supply. At the same time, they are given the opportunity to place other structures, such as floating boats, platforms and sailors, which contribute to the upgrading of the whole tourist product. These projects are part of the authorisation procedure referred to in Article 14 of Law 2971/2001, where, inter alia, a prerequisite for their authorisation is the decision approving environmental conditions and an approved environmental impact study. Two insurance barriers moving towards environmental protection. The second article of the amendment is linked to the establishment of a single management body of the port zone, without prejudice to the ownership rights of the OSE. This will facilitate the development and investment process. By joint decision of the Ministers for Finance, Infrastructure and Transport and Shipping and Island Policy, the consideration paid by the relevant port authority to GAIAOSE shall be determined. I would like to point out that the application of this provision excludes real estate and real estate which serves the rail network and infrastructure functionally. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has a concrete plan to deal with the consequences of the pandemic, which is being implemented. Despite budgetary constraints and difficulties, we are committed and firmly geared to reducing tax burdens. At the same time, the design and development of an integrated proposal for using the resources of the Recovery Fund and the new NSRF, which touch on EUR 52 billion, has begun. These resources, in the next six years, should be directed towards the productive reconstruction of the Greek economy, to the development of a model of economic growth in terms of sustainability, sustainability and with a view to strong growth. We're moving forward and looking forward. We are going along with the citizens at this difficult time and we are taking what they need to ensure that no one stays helpless, so that no one stays behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Mamulakis, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. I take the opportunity to take the opportunity of a revulsion of the speech of the Deputy Minister Vesiropoulos on a relationship of confidence between the citizens and the state. The relationship of confidence, Mr Minister, and fellow Members, is based and is an enduring process, a process which is constantly reassuring. And because we are talking about topical issues, and especially at this time of events, where we see that the Greek people really are paved and we are ante portas, before the gates, of a very difficult school, a very difficult autumn - all the recruits we have advocated in this regard - we believe that the ultimate state of government, Mr Mitsotakis, does not go hand in hand with the need to create and build a relationship of confidence between the citizens and the government. The opposite is true and I will further substantiate it. The bill, and I will probably start from the branches of the bill that are not in the main body, are our amendments. Greek. A relationship of civic confidence with the government. An epitome of the speech is the act. We were here a year ago. Mr. Mitsotakis had just taken office. One of the first things to come was the immediate start of work in the Greek. I think he's been through in the consciousness of the world now that's been a joke. An unfamiliar joke, because first of all, a basic and structural uncertainty was created in a project that was truly visionary, which had to be properly shielded by its developmental route, but above all by what? What came here today? Another amendment has been made, which demonstrates the curiosity of the state of service, the curiosity of approaching such a serious issue. And why am I saying it? Because it is not possible to have a show, a communiqué tatarakum a few days ago, where we had disguises, demolitions of buildings with the special exodus of Greek citizens and not of course private individuals. Five out of a total of nineteen and it is also worth wondering who will bear the very great cost of launching the entire surface of the Greek after. So the famous amendment is coming here. There was an ambiguity. I think Mr Hatzigiannakis, the rapporteur, has rightly exhumed it. There was an answer from Mr. Stakoura. We hope this will be closed here. It is not possible for the report to leave the issue of the seaside and the seaside open and to see that it is not the case. I want to believe that after the Minister's position, this is a matter considered to be over. But it is another example of the rough approach to such an important issue, such as the Greek one. One year later - of course the private investor has not even passed - there are still many conditions and norms that need to be fulfilled, in order to really have a contractor, a friend or not, in the work of the Greek. Questions other than the state of service and how much the confidence of Greek citizens has been disturbed for a year. Article 54, National Documentation Centre. Here, from this Step a year ago, Mr. Mitsotakis again in the light of his programme statements, said that the National Documentation Centre for your Government is a very important tool for an institution that you intend to strengthen and you have even transferred it, you moved it as an Agency, to the Ministry of Digital Governance, thus trying to prove your heat and trust in this National Documentation Centre. What happened? Today, through this article, we have a clear staff dehydration of the National Documentation Centre and not only this, but also the crucial part concerning the library based on all the information, which is subsequently documented, appropriately moved. I think that there is also clear evidence at this point that there is a confusion which concerns everyone. Now, on behalf of the state, the reason. I continue for the relationship of trust between citizens and government. Transmigrant army, Minister. We've reached an incredible number in an intransigent number. More than 250 percent of what the SYRIZA government is the number, the number of posted employees. With this dimension, which is essentially with your government policy, you are moving forward, you are creating and disturbing a logic and a worthyness in the country's own labour regime and it is understood by civil servants. But be careful here, 250% more than SYRIZA, 600% more postmasters from the Papandreou government, 1000% from the Samara government - Venizelos 2012-2015. What does that mean? It means, obviously, that the effectiveness, coexistence of activities and rationalisation do not go hand in hand with politics. And do you know what the financial cost of the six hundred and seven employees is, who are currently numbering cumulatively and globally in the country? You are a competent Minister, you can make a rough reduction, but it is much more than the list of Pecha and Mitsotakis every month and that is good to know. An average wage cost of these employees is EUR 25,000 per year and we have 1600. That's 35 million euros a month. They're inconceivable numbers. So this thing needs to be done with a serious approach, costly and documented, and not only our own children come in anyway and do whatever they may. Now, a repayable advance. Because you have praised, at the edge of your speech, the necessity and effort of the government to make progress on the issue of repayable advances - which, incidentally, is to say that it is really a loan, because the businessman is then called upon to repay the sum - our information - and I would ask you, Minister, to reply to us in this regard - are talking about 1/3. A total of 1/3 of enterprises are currently in the country, individual and other legal persons, have been served or in any case are entangled in this attempt. I think that the rate is particularly low, combined with the Timing of the crisis we have as a country, and you must definitely move on to further measures of attractiveness in this action, because it is necessary and very important. Now, of course, in the final state and the relationship between the people's trust with the government, Mr Chardalias came yesterday with another amendment. I can't expose her, twenty-eight additional transfusions. You see, every day, the number goes together. It is also a question of a fiscal approach, because it should also be aligned with the budget that is currently being implemented by the state and with all the other issues that concern it. TEPIX. I think now that all the people on the market who are involved in the market are involved, discussed and we are getting married with the market are clearly visible, that only the very chosen bank customers have the high priority, the so-called, the high priorityization, to get these loans, even if they don't need them. In other words, banks call on good customers - so they have guaranteed disbursement if the money is paid back to the banks - and they tell them what? Come and get a loan. That doesn't make sense. When the medium and small business goes through, and it cannot pass outside, as you well know, from a financial institution, at the same time, it is not possible for that institution to invite its friends or good customers to take these loans. So what happened with TPAX I and TPAX II. We have had a high absorption, in fact, but in a desperately low number of applicants and, of course, by magic, the companies that actually belong to TEPIX - that is, they are being borrowed - are the very big companies in our country. I think that the government, even now, even in five and, if not five, is directly required to act accordingly and to be able to integrate, if possible, most of them - and the other companies that have actually applied for and received a negative answer. I will not mourn this House any longer, Mr President. I'm looking forward to it. After all, it's a dynamic process. But we also expect the Minister's replies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Mamulaki. Mr Simopoulos has the floor from New Democracy and will be followed by the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement Mr. Loverdes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Mamulaki, did you think well before speaking in this Chamber about the word trust? Confidence for the Mitsotakis Government? Have you seen out what's going on? You have seen the polls, which I have always believed, and when I came 40% you have. It is unprecedented that a government after a year, in a terrible crisis, has increased the level of public confidence. That's because the state is working. Even the amendments that have come today are a proof that the final state operates. It is a structure above the Ministries, which, when actions are in trouble, when joint ministerial decisions are needed, when there are bills relating to one, two, three ministries intervening and solving problems. This is the final state and not a state with incredible committees that never make decisions or throw the ball into the stands. That's what you've done for five years. And what's that fetish, anyway, with the Greek? The Prime Minister has said that from Stepma. We underestimated complexity. He said that from the Step. Yeah, but problems solved behind each other. You also said the state pays demolitions. You're wrong. Check it out. The investor. Take a good look at this and then you can ask for political apologies. The investor. Apart from the Greek, we come to the issues of GAIAOSE, the port of Alexandroupolis, Volos, where I want to focus. You know, over the years, since 1996, all governments have invested so that Greece, and especially northern Greece, can become a hub of combined transport. In order to do this, Ennatia had to be granted the concession, the ports had to be granted, the airport of Thessaloniki, and the second airway. All governments have done that. It is simply that the present government solves the problems in their turn. That is why the infamous amendment or amendment to GAIAOSE and to the concessionaires has come, because that is how we will resolve problems of another type that exist in other airports, for example Volos. We have huge potential for northern Greece to do what the Netherlands is for North-West Europe. We can do this now for Greece and especially for northern Greece, for south-eastern Europe. This design is also served by this amendment. I have also heard a colleague from SYRIZA again succeed because there has been some sort of regulation for the cavalry. I personally believe that a bill needs to be immediately used to make use of it, of course, in accordance with the rules on the environment, as is the case in the foreign countries. Greece has enormous potential and we do not exploit them because of our ideas and especially the ideas of the Left and the fear of our own making arrangements. You go to the Scandinavian states and you see the cavalry being exploited according to the environment. As far as the regulation that I would say is concerned, it gives the resources it had to give what the Greek state promised to frontier businesses, I do not have much to say. I imagine you're in complete agreement. Here too, what the government has done and about western Macedonia is in the process of liberation, the committee which is taking place. This committee will find ways to strengthen the area properly. Undersecretary, I expect what has happened to Thrace, where a problem of years has been solved, and the same thing to be done immediately - that is to say, to resolve the problem - for both thousands of Kalamaria families who see questioning their public property. The exchange story you have an obligation - of course you are committed - to resolve it here and now. Thousands of people expect - and this does not cost the Greek public - to lift this challenge since 2018. It's not your obligation. It is an obligation to resolve the matter immediately. Thank you. I've got a liquor store for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u89	Yeah, keep it. We're gonna need it, maybe. I liked your comparison between the Scandinavian states, the cavalry and Greece. Maybe that's why they come to Greece this summer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Mamulaki, there is no staff. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a technical draft law which incorporates two Union directives into Greek law and regulates issues relating to corporate governance of public limited companies and the modern capital market. I'll read a small village from Mr. Arvanitidis's speech. He says Mr Arvanitides, the rapporteur of the Change Movement: "The deepening and unification of European capital markets will provide businesses with more financing options at lower cost, will offer new opportunities and greater security for savers and investors and will finally strengthen the resilience of the financial system." So it is clear that in principle we say 'yes'. We have also expressed this in the committee and this morning in our colleague's speech. There is a need to strengthen liquidity. I'm telling all my speeches all over the pandemic. I did not miss a sitting in this House, and I have always stressed the need for liquidity, because the economy is drowning. It is therefore a matter of principle to us. That's how we understand this difficult period. But we are concerned with the way in which money is finally being channelled to the market, because so far, even though companies need capital, things are not going well. Maybe it's not going well at all. Yesterday I was responsible for the political Council of my resignation at a conference of bodies and party members in the Ionian Sea, and the situation they have taken me is totally disappointing. The picture that I have from an island of Heritage, from Zakynthos, where for professional reasons I was about a month ago, is that things were tragic. In the main square of Zakynthos the largest company was ours, who were seven, eight people, and from one point to the next there was no one. That's a sign for what's coming. Mr Ministers, citizens' overtaxation, governance policy SYRIZA and ANEL, tourism with the unprecedented low levels at which it is moving because of the pandemic, obviously the banking system that only lends those who are not yet in need, despite all the observatories you have created in the Bank of Greece and the Ministry of Development - none of us have ever learned what comments they have made and what the consequences of the observations they have made - the red loans that still remain the great pain for the banks and the Greek economy, remain almost all open problems. I say here, ladies and gentlemen, that the government and the country - above all the citizens - has to face a triangle of fire: pandemic, economy - recession and island Greece - with many islands - that is to say, which, by chance, are now becoming a big problem, because the government, for health reasons and also for economic reasons, must look at them in a particular way. More special can't be done! And we do not see that island Greece has occupied the government. I would like to take the opportunity given to me by today's debate, by addressing the government and especially the State Secretary, Mr Zavvos, to comment on one of the problems we have at the moment, which is very serious, that of red loans. 'Yes' we say in the draft law at first. But the market is currently having the same problems from me and because we have an open debate for weeks now, which I very much appreciate, I would like to address the National Representation to make a few comments. When we proposed a Change Movement for years as well as the Bank of Greece, we had had a debate and you asked four questions: who would cover the financial costs of this poor bank, the bad bank. What will be its supervisory cost? What compatibility is with Union legislation. And what will ultimately be the acceptance of the shape of the investors. I would remind you that beyond our proposal, which was a party's proposal, Mr Stournara's positions and his public positions, namely the Governor of the Bank of Greece, the central banker of Greece, underline the need to create yet another systemic solution along the lines of the "HRAKLI". Such a solution, says the bank commander, and it says it is characteristic, is the creation of a firm to manage problematic assets, which will take over the allocation of a sufficient proportion of non-performing loans. I would add in my argument what I read as a report from the European Central Bank, which seems to be moving to the European Central Bank the creation of a central mechanism that will now be the backbone of the bad banks of the Member States of the euro area. And I said, by addressing the government, because the debate is not coming to the House on your own initiative. Why aren't we concerned? The Minister, Mr. Zavvos, has his views. He exposed them. I replied to him at a recent meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs - I repeat a little bit of the titles - that we have three examples so far, of Ireland, Spain and Slovenia, where bad bank was established. So there is no question of Union law, that is, there is no question of Union law. He's answering, yes, but these are before. It's until 2011. It's before 2015, anyway. It's 2011-2012-2012- I'm sorry, I'm clarification - that's what he said. I see, Mr Zabwe, that the creation of these banks is also enough in 2013. The Slovenian BAMC was created in 2013. So the period you gave us has a mistake, a false reference. Their recommendation extends from 2009 to 2013 and has continued to function since then. So no problem of Union law has arisen. Who puts the money? Who's funding? The three examples mentioned above are examples of mixed financing, ladies and gentlemen. And state and private. I have specific amounts to which I referred to in committee. I have no time to read them out of the text that I have, with the help of my colleagues, recorded. So a variety of options show us examples of who finances. I would like to give this House the opportunity to understand, ladies and gentlemen, that it does not conflict with a party of opposition or even disagree with a State Secretary responsible. This is where the State Secretary responsible disagrees with the Bank of Greece, with the Governor of the Bank of Greece. This is very important because it shows an incomplete course of the Bank of Greece and the Greek Government. It needs to be cleared up in this sitting today, if we understand things well or if we misunderstood things. This clarification will only be provided by the State Secretary responsible, Mr Zavvos. We are told that every institution - you have said so - should be literally confined to its responsibilities. It's a basic principle, if you like, and the law, says Mr. Zavvos. It's obviously not about the Change Movement. We're not a public institution. We are a political party. We tabled a proposal in 2016-2017 and we support this proposal as a proposal to launch a dialogue. This is where we have the Bank of Greece. So that the Governor of the Bank of Greece and the Bank of Greece be confined to his duties? Is it not in its task to address the problem of red loans, which creates not only a problem of balance sheet in banks, but also a problem with lending and liquidity? Because no bank wants 61 billion, as Mr Stournaras said, of red loans that are currently - having been slightly reduced - to be 70 or 80 billion. Come on, let's go, we've got the pandemic! Come on, de, which the government itself thinks is going to have an increase in red loans because of the pandemic. And that makes sense. I do not call on the government to tell us where it is calculated, but whoever says that 5 billion is probably a reasonable prediction, does not make a big mistake. Don't be much more. When the problem rather than being reduced, with anguish falling, but then increasing again, the HERAKLIS project is one of the solutions which does not compete with others. Act complement one systemic solution to the other systemic solutions. Finally, Mr Zavvos - and here he speaks to me personally - says that there is our law that incorporated the relevant directive, Directive 4335/2015 - which incorporated a relevant directive, which says that, if we look at the provisions of this directive of the Greek State by direct application, the testimonies are at risk - he said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u93	I did not say 'deposits'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u94	... individuals in these banks and the bond holders, because they are expected to bail in the case of the creation of these bad banks, the bad banks. I have looked at the directive, ladies and gentlemen, and I have seen that this directive mentions - among other things - that if a bank is insolvent, that is to say, the supervisor is going out and write that, due to losses, the capital adequacy ratio falls below the threshold, it must be based on a bail in order to reduce the cost of resolution or even to reduce dramatically, the costs to be borne by the European Security Fund and the national state bodies, the Minister tells us. But I do understand - and I do not want to describe it - that this risk is inaccurate. And I say it with appreciation. You saw that even though you were very sharp in the committee - from what I read - after I had spoken, I have been addressing the government with decency. If our problem is capital adequacy and its minimums, then there is, ladies and gentlemen, the Bank of Greece to stop such an attempt at removing red loans with its negative decision, as the minimum of capital adequacy is controlled. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do you want to tell us that the Bank of Greece is proposing something that it itself actually refuses? I don't take these letters off in an appropriate and serious way. I think there is a position of principle that differentiates your Ministry with the Bank of Greece and the country, with this large percentage of red loans today, cannot proceed with a banking system free of this maliciousness. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am closing down with this - an amendment concerning Thrace has been tabled and has been praised from too many aspects of Parliament. We too commend this initiative. These are, ladies and gentlemen, the subsidisation of the workforce for the period 2010-2015, which had been suspended as a result of a ministerial decision by the Minister of the previous government, Mr Stathakis. Firstly, we have made a motion for a change, Mrs Gennimatas, a proposal for the creation of a once again - this has also been done in 1993 - of a intergroup committee dealing with Thrace. This proposal has been accepted. But we are also talking about Eastern Macedonia as a whole with identical problems. That's our proposal. We want, we ask, that it be applied in this way. In the context of an effort to be made for these regions in the country, we are also taking this measure and that is why we are adopting it. Because with Thrace, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Parliament has dealt with many times, but it is very little in terms of needs because intergroups have been set up, problems have been recorded, but problems have not been solved, although the situation has been markedly improved over periods of time, we are commending this effort and we are supplementing it, as the players in the region say. Why from 2010 to 2015 and not from 2009? Why did you put that cutter on? 2009 is also a year where there were problems and you should see it with a little more time comfort. In other words, we are proposing a year longer. You're not telling me, what do you need to give up the lawsuits? Mr. Dermenjopoulou, you're a Member of the region, aren't you telling me, the resignation of legal proceedings in what good is it? Is that an ID? Isn't that an ID? You need to understand this better than I do. Why would they have to resign from lawsuits? Are the regulations that Parliament is voting on today certain? Don't you know that a joint ministerial decision should be inserted after? I think that this is painful, putting a private person into a right place, as we say, an amendment, but at risk, if the application is distorted, it cannot correct the claim of his interests. The Joint Ministerial Decision should also be adopted immediately. This is a request from the actors in the region. There can be no delay. The problems that have been created are many. They have been described by the Members who have taken the floor and who are Members of this House. And even in cases where arrangements have been made by companies which have delayed the matter and have paid their obligations subsequently, will there be a set-aside here? I wonder, and I want a straight answer. Is there going to be a clearing here? With these remarks, we, as a Change Movement, vote for the amendment and we will ask for specific words from the government until the end of the meeting. How does he deal with these proposals? If he has the ability to deal with them and what are the solutions he will give? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, too. Mr Lebanese has the floor as a Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Immediately after that is Mr. Paschalides, then the Greek Parliamentary Representative Mr. Hetas, then Mr. Famelos and then Mr. Zavvos. That's the turn we'll keep.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this bill is taking place at a time when particular geopolitical developments are taking place. The incomprehensible, unequivocal and illegal decision by the Turkish President to change the character of Agia Sophia, the symbol of Orthodoxy, a monument of world cultural heritage and make it mosque is equivalent to an extreme escalation of Turkish challenges. The Turkish President renounces in practice the secular character of his country. He effectively renounces the legacy of Kemal Ataturk and marks a turn. A turn from the European path towards a hard nationalist Muslimism. A turn that peaks the Turkish politics and strategy that aims to revive the dreaming for him Ottoman Empire. The uncovered military intervention in Libya, the exercise of influence in the Balkans, especially through religious diplomacy, through which huge funds are channelled, proves the creation of a bow surrounding our country. It is worth thinking here of how our foreign policy has acted to prevent this Turkish infiltration in the Balkans. But Europe and also the whole world cannot remain insurmountable. The conversion of Agia Sophia into a mosque is not only an insult to Greece. It is an insult to every citizen of the Western world, to every citizen who accepts and recognises the peaceful coexistence of peoples and religions. But Erdogan’s extreme behavior cannot and will not remain unanswered. Already today, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis made statements referring to the measures that Europe must take to deal with Turkish expansion and yesterday's Council of Foreign Ministers of the European Union, Mr Dendias, raised the issue and asked for the solidarity of our allies in this respect. Many of them responded to it yesterday and led by Austria, France, Sweden and other countries, which called for the European Union and Turkey accession negotiations to be suspended immediately. At the same time we raised the question of sanctions against Turkey if it is certainly attempting to violate our sovereign rights. If he does that, the attitude of Greece will be unscathed. We will not accept any violations of our borders, whether they are at sea or on land. We are ready, building firm alliances, to face any danger. The attitude of the Foreign Ministers yesterday in the European Union is a positive precedent for the unity of the Union in the face of Turkish provocation. We must also stand by and not raise tons of people in a popular way on this issue. I now come to the point raised by Mr Loverdos a moment ago. I have followed, like other colleagues, both here and in committee, the debate between Mr Loverdos and the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Zavvos. Admittedly it is a debate with arguments which promotes parliamentary dialogue and parliamentaryism itself. I understand that the common place and anguish of all the responsible political forces is to resolve the issue of red loans. It is a burning matter of the utmost importance for the recovery of our economy, which is a key priority of our government's policy, because resolving the problem will enable new loans to be granted for those who have little to do with the market and will effectively free the valuable liquidity for it. Already the leadership of the Ministry of Finance has taken initiatives to provide solutions after a period of inertia, with names behind it and as we all know, in the last four and a half years it has cost small and medium-sized enterprises, banks, the Greek household and our economy in general. The ‘HRAKLIS’ programme, which was legislated in 2019, which has been sufficiently supported and analysed by Mr Zavvos throughout this period, is a critical system tool. The banks are already expected to make use of it in order to transfer 30 billion red loans. The government is, however, ready to consider any other proposal to help reduce red loans. The solution of the bad bank, like any other possible systemic proposal, however unlike the SYRIZA side, which can appear in the future and be effective as a complement to the HERAKLES project can and must be considered. All the efforts of the government, of course, are moving in the context of a resolution of the crucial issue of red loans, always at the centre of the interests of the citizens, who have been deeply troubled over the last ten years, the defence of the interests of the public and of course the proper functioning of the banks as a lever for the economy. SYRIZA's dear parliamentary representative today envyed the glory of his predecessors in this position and again came to criticise us with irony for the final state. He obviously did not attend the last meetings, which the same arguments have heard and fell into the void, we have asked for answers to you and you are coming back with the same arguments, instead of answering us. So we say again calmly - because today's report concerns the presence here yesterday by Mr. Hardalia and the creation of twenty-eight posters - that we cannot understand why, when you come and say all these things, you do not share what the entire Greek people like, that the civil protection services throughout the last one year have practically saved not only the pretexts, but have saved lives, they have saved the country from natural disasters, which in your time all remember what happened. So instead of coming and saying a "bravo", as all other parties say and as the majority of the Greek people say to this government, you resign from us because the Deputy Minister has decided that it needs to be strengthened, until the procedures of the AACC are operational, with twenty-eight post-call employees, the one who told you yesterday that, while he is a State Secretary and has the right to have eight posters in his office, he has only one. And you blame the government for our own ruffles! But before you or another colleague of yours to talk about this matter again, come to answer the Greek people - not to us - how did you raise the post-government people by 45% at the cost of 120 million entire and 17 million only for the post-masters of Maximos, you who had as advisor to the giant Karanika, who appointed friends and relatives throughout the public sector. Yours - I remind you - it was the Ministerial Council which, from January 2015 until the end of 2018, decided to increase special advisers, associates and transferees at the offices of your State Secretarys and Ministers. When you apologise, answer these questions, perhaps only then will the Greek people start again opening their ears to listen to you, and today is turning your back out of sight. As regards the amendments to Thrace, as Evripidis Stylianides and our other Thrace Members have pointed out, and the Minister of Finance, what is being done with this amendment, as Mr Loverdes said earlier, is being strengthened by the region of Thrace, a region that is the battlefield of our country and Europe, the ultimate European border. What does the present government actually do? It corrects, in line with the time-consuming political support of Thrace and its citizens, a policy that Mr Stylianides said started from Constantine Karamanlis, continued by Andreas Papandreou and followed by all governments until the 2015 milestone. It is therefore coming to correct the error of SYRIZA, which has abolished employment subsidies to the instant companies, with decisions of your then Minister, Mr Stathakis. This decision had explosive consequences in the Thrace region, as unemployment erupted from 4% and reached 33%. Thousands of young and young left Thrace. This central area of our country has been weakened. Today the government comes and actually corrects this historical injustice. He pays debts to the firms. At the same time, the Prime Minister's announced initiative to set up a special parliamentary committee under the presidency of Dora Bakoyannis, as the President said, and following the acceptance of the President of Parliament and the Conference of Presidents for the development of the prospect of Thrace, proves the government's concern for this region, its willingness to strengthen our locusts guarding Thermopylae. On the Greek side, the political leadership has said so many times, and I think they are clear and I imagine that the SYRIZA wing will also vote in favour of this amendment. Let me reiterate, however, that this is another essential condition of the contract between the GOI and the investor and that is no other than the distribution of the properties between the GOI and the Greek State. The investor is not involved, because at the moment the Greek State has 70% and 30% belongs to the GOI. Therefore, distribution must take place between the two, a distribution made on the basis of state law, with homogeneous and new common rules for purchasers, with a new regulation - and that is very important for those who understand - a common architecture and aesthetic approach to the construction there. This amendment does not amend the contract between SWEDEN and an investor. The property, after ninety years, as Mr Stakoras said three times ago, will go into the public sector. On the basis of the methodology laid down by the law of SYRIZA, L.4422, another step is being taken in this emblematic investment, an investment that unfortunately in the four and a half years that SYRIZA has ruled instead of listening to the will, the urgement of the entire Greek people, insisted on listening to the ideological positions of its initial 3%. As regards the bill we are discussing today, it is another vote in the government's draft for the Greek economy. I won't say any more, so I won't abuse time. Besides, Mr Kedicoglou and the ministers were very clear and detailed about what we are doing with this bill. Despite everything that has been said in this House, the government has not only stopped at this and has not even stopped at all what it has done for the economy and the Greek citizens for a year. The new draft law by the Ministry of Finance, which intends to suspend the trade fee for farmers, to legislate on the attraction of investments requested by previous speakers, with targeted tax incentives and tax exemptions, and to introduce a mechanism for the out-of-court resolution of outstanding tax differences, which - for those who understand what is happening in the economy - is extremely important for its reopening. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying that once again and despite the cases where the fight goes beyond the limits of parliamentary decency, in the case of this bill we have all seen that there has been a serious dialogue, arguments have been exchanged, resulting in a better and more effective bill. This is the quintusia of parliamentaryism, as this government sees it. This is our democracy and its right way of working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr Levane. Mr. Paschalides has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the Government's commitments to financial support for Greek businesses and to strengthen their competitiveness, this bill comes in particular Article 4 of implementing the law of frontier regions for the activation of the 12% financial support provided for by the development law, Law 1767/1988, which will be a life-threatening in the very difficult socio-economic conditions for enterprises in our outermost region. In particular, Article 21 of Law 1767/1988, as replaced by Article 32 of Law 1836/1989, stipulates that, first, industrial, craft and mining enterprises located in Region C, D of Development Law No 1262/82, namely East Macedonia and Thrace, shall receive financial support from the OAED. Secondly, for this purpose the OAED is financed by the State budget, in which the relevant appropriations are entered. However, former Government Development Minister SYRIZA Mr Stathakis, under Ministerial Decision No 13311/273/21-32016, made the sudden and totally unnecessarily undoubted abolition of financial aid by subsidising employers' costs - 12% - for enterprises located in the border regions, including East Macedonia and Thrace, even though he knew that the OAED had not paid the aid due from the second half of 2010 to the year 2015. As a result of the refusal to pay the financial aid due for a period of five years and further to the definitive abolition of the development measure, hundreds of processing and tourism businesses in the border regions have suffered huge financial damage, and countless jobs have been lost in these sensitive areas, as, moreover, the SYRIZA Government, despite the commitments on the state of that financial aid with similar development measures, has never made any action in this direction. A long-standing struggle followed, where the Council of State, by its decision No 305/2020, annulled the shameful ministerial decision of the previous government. Thus, with this amendment, 12% work subsidy for enterprises in border regions, as defined in Law 1767/1988, including the Region of East Macedonia and Thrace, is being reintroduced, and the grant of grants due from the second half of 2010, by means of a set-aside with existing and future public, tax, insurance, etc. This provision is literally salvages for enterprises in border regions, since the multi-annual economic crisis, together with the unprecedented health crisis, has caused major economic problems in the most disadvantaged regions, between them in eastern Macedonia and Thrace. Therefore, under this provision of Article 4, a major development measure, which has made a decisive contribution for many years to the viability of businesses and the maintenance of valuable jobs, is being reintroduced and we hope that it will give reinforcement oxygen to the region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace and to all the border regions provided for by the law. Finally, after expressing my warm thanks to Minister Euripidis Stylianidis, who always stands arrogant to the problems of the region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, and to the Minister, Mr Stavoura and the Member of Parliament, for their overall contribution, I wanted to stress that our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis once again proves his support for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which has just begun to be regrouped after a ten-year crisis. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] I am sure that the current government in these difficult times will make a decisive contribution to the rescue and development of small and medium-sized enterprises, both in eastern Macedonia and Thrace and in the other border regions, in a number of similar measures and provisions, in all ways strengthening the entrepreneurship and economy of the outermost regions. To Mr Loverdos, I would like to say: Mr Loverdos, I have the impression that the debts in the 2009 business have been paid - at least in East Macedonia and Thrace - and in some businesses - not all - have been paid for the first half of 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u99	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr Heitas, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u100	Madam President, thank you very much. I will fully agree with the Government and its parliamentary representative, because, indeed, the issue of Agia Sophia is a matter that is of great concern to us, so, Minister, I will come back to your bill after all, but we have to say some things. Mr. Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, you mentioned what the Greek Government has done or has done so far and told us that the Prime Minister, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, told him today about this. You never told us that he was referring to specific measures. You told us that you asked the European allies, the European partners, the support to take some countermeasures, but you did not tell us if they proposed something and what measures these might be. You also mentioned - because we would refer to specific measures in a little bit - that at yesterday's Council of Foreign Ministers we supported the Foreign Ministers of the other countries, etc. etc. So tell the Greeks that of the twenty-seven Foreign Ministers who participated in the twenty-seven have shepherded the island, the duck, Mr Levane. And we're talking about big states! France, in fact, has supported us, Austria, Luxembourg, Slovakia and Estonia. Where are the others? The other twenty raised their hands up. "Let's see first, before we go to measures," they said, "to exhaust the room for dialogue with Turkey." That was said yesterday. So we have seen the mood of the rest of the states. It is what we have been shouting for too long and unfortunately for Greece, unfortunately for us, that none of them will help us, none of the major serious states. It is pointless to expect a reaction from the European Union. We have said so before, the President, where we are, in this Step, in our interviews in television panels, where we are. When did I tell you, Mr. Levant? Last week, on Friday that they gave half a billion to the Turks, Erdogan made Agia Sophia mosque. In other words, we're talking about courage, on the one hand, from the Turk, but, on the other, it's a clear sign that we should expect nothing from them. So where do we end up? We conclude that we are on our own, and we should take action. Not to say that we are only making opposition and hitting the government, because you do not do what we say or take countermeasures, to say that what is happening is a great responsibility for the citizens and for the parties they choose, but also for what they are living for. I will say this before I go to the measures we have to propose. It is not possible on Friday that Erdogan converts Agia Sophia into a mosque and on the same day, ladies and gentlemen, eight hundred six vehicles - I have the official evidence - to pass the Gardens, of which three hundred ninety-four cars are Greek and go to Turkey to either put petrol, where the fuel is cheap, or to do their shopping on Saturday from the eight hundred and twenty-eighteen to be Greek. With two people per car, the least I can put in, it's about a thousand people. So many Greeks spent Friday, Saturday and Sunday one day afterwards! Minister, it's tragic. Here we are talking about the responsibility of the Greek citizens. We cannot just shout, whine, and the citizen is irresponsible. That is why we say to all tons and call on the Greek citizens, with all the power they have - because they have power - to boycott Turkish products, not to go to Turkey to shop. For Christ's sake! We don't ask for crazy things! That's the official evidence. I would also like to send them a message, because at the weekend, ladies and gentlemen, with one step of the Greek Solution, we were in Komotini, Rodopi and Evros on a large tour. We will then go there, because today we are also talking about the issue of Evros, the amendment that Mr Staikoras has put forward. Do you know that the Komotini Municipal Council had a resolution against the conversion of Agia Sophia into a mosque and were Muslim municipal councillors abstaining? Can Muslim municipal councillors, in other Greeks, abstain from this vote and not vote in favour of this resolution against the conversion of Agia Sophia into a mosque? Inadmissible! These are two fresh elements which I bring to the attention of the Greek people and you. Let's go to the package I said. Because it is good to say that we are waiting and asked all tons of Prime Minister from the European Union to help take countermeasures and help Greece, but listen to this. Let's go see some measures that we need to take immediately. Destroy every instrument that violates national sovereignty, construction of cement walls and single defence doctrine with Cyprus is military measures. These are military measures. We have to stop importing Turkish fish, fish-farming and all other products. It's just things. In addition, the establishment of fishing zones. The President of Greece told you before. Close the border to hurt them. Do what we're supposed to do right now to send a message. I don't know whether or not Erdogan's gonna chew. That's not our target. The aim is to show that we don't understand from the chimpanzee his and that we can react and that for once we're not with the head torn. It's not always the target anyone's chasing. We may not achieve anything essential with regard to Agia Sophia with this action. But we'll send a message. We can no longer expect them on our own. I would also like to make a comment on all that we are living so much this quarter with the coronary, but you will allow me more to make a comment now on this very sensitive issue that touches the soul of all Greeks. That three hundred Greeks went the other day to Turkey and passed the Gardens does not mean that the rest of the millions of Greeks don't hurt. I just said to these few people that it's not a good message they send. What is the attitude of our Church? How's our Church? We barely read an announcement from Jerome forty eight hours. I'm sorry to say it, but I think that Hellas is going through a crisis, not only economic, but also values, and I'm very concerned about what I see, with a Church absent at a time when the Greek people would want it very close and want a church leader ahead. I can't imagine what the reaction would be if...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Comrade, your time is running out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u102	I shall conclude, Madam President, in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u103	It's just a minute, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u104	There's always been Christoulos. We have Ieronym, a man of very low tone, who does not express Christians to the absolute - and I am sorry to say this - who is more concerned with public relations, because I would also see another reaction. I close with this, Madam President: At a time when we cannot put it together, when bars are open every night, the beach bar becomes the madness, the poor lady, and you see the crowd, we abolished the festivities and with CYA, we extend to the confinement of our Church until 22 August. So neither the Fifteen should we go to our churches, as we would like to go, while at the same time all beach bars are open and have thousands of people inside. I mean, some messages you're sending are wrong. Mr. Zabwe, I'm closing this. We've received too many phones. Will the officials on parole for June be paid? Because they informed them they'd get paid 27 July and have a problem, because they can't live their families. I mean, in June, the money, the 534 euros, if I'm not mistaken, where is people getting...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u105	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u106	I shall conclude, Madam President. This is very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u107	I get it, but you've been through your time a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u108	You said at the outset that it would be at the beginning of July and were informed today that 27 July would be paid for in June. How will these people live? I will pass it on to have an answer on the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr. Famelos has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hatzigiannakis and Mr Mamoulakis will allow me, I do not know exactly what you have put into your positions, but I would like to begin by congratulating the head of the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Stakoura, Mr. Vessiropoulos, Mr. Zavvos, because they come here today and boldly admit that the investment in the Greek has not begun. He does want courage. I do not know if anyone would like to admit that at the end of the day, the Prime Minister went to a false event to launch a project that today comes the head of the Ministry of Finance and tells us that not even the distribution contract has taken place. So since they are legislating today on how to make the distribution contract, we can tell Mr.Georgiadis to come down from the bulldozers, not to play it as a apprentice buldozier or apprentice magician, because we have to make it clear that the Greek society does not eat hay and has very well understood what political fraud we have in Greece today and that the Greek is a clear example. Of course, I would tell you that it might be best to wait a few days for demolition to be forgotten. Do not bring such an amendment to the Greek Parliament again. It is a fact that you will have to wait several days, because you have to acquire a more serious and more reliable government, because this is what the Greek society needs, because it is clear that it is unreliable to have a government that promised that the project will start ending 2019, a Prime Minister is unreliable that pledged that within a week it will solve the entire short-circuit Greek and is now coming to make an amendment, after a year of the government's commitment, on how the distribution will take place. Let me tell you that I have some questions for the head of the Ministry of Finance, because I have a post here - I will present it in the Minutes - by Mr Staikoura, on 11 February, which says that the distribution has been completed in Greek. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I ask how reliable a Minister of Finance, Mr. Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, is, on 11 February, saying that the distribution of the Greek was completed and five months later he will make an amendment to how a contract will be made that will come back to the House to legislate. Because what I need to say is that you need courage and courage to come here today to tell us that you will make special arrangements, apart from the usual notarial procedure, to bring back to Parliament - and we are waiting for you - and the distribution contract for the Greek, because you have a double admission of error and error. Finally, the one week that Mr Mitsotakis was committed to - I would like you to answer, Mr Levane, and personally to take the floor - was it a lie or a ignorance? Because both are too dangerous, to have today a Prime Minister who did not know or who lied to the Greek people. Because we are sure that this will prove too many times - and we are telling you quite clearly here - firstly because I am sure that whatever LAMDA DEVELOPMENT asks is going to bring it into legislation and, on the other hand, it is clear that whatever you have done so far, you have changed it two and three times. Do you know that the legislative act you made for the Greek year you changed it by law three times? I am voting for this - I am voting against you has finally become a second one. Of course, it's not just lies and ignorance. It's that the investors, who were waiting for Mr. Mitsotakis' radiation to stay in the company, left the company that would make the investment in the Greek. Finally, we have a clear proof that follows seven amendments, seven legislative acts, one accreditation act and four ministerial decisions. Finally, one week has taken place over a year. Of course, the first amendment I remember was on 31 July, when Mr Economou - I would remind you today, Deputy Minister of Spatial Planning, former advisor to the Greek company, the ‘LAMDA DEVELOPMENT’ - introduced regulation on the level of buildings. On August 9, after a month, you are going through another arrangement for tourist ports. In practice, you are going through regulation, in reaction to local society, for public-private areas. On November 18, two months later, you come and change the date of delivery of the public spaces. In February 2020, in the Waterways Act - in unrelated legislation you always pass these amendments - arrangements are being made that change the process of handing over public spaces - is that what I said to you, I am voting - I am voting - but are you putting in regulations and leaving the authority of arbitrary people from the Ministry of the Environment, going to the Ministry of Development, which takes the act of arbitraryness, but how much? Nine hundred arbitrary. You then come to the well-known anti-environmental law and change the required parking places, by way of derogation. And after taking out an accredited demolition act in June, you come on June 12 and you change the demolition process again, calling the "partial implementation of demolition" the five demolitions. Congratulations, this must be excellence of good legislature, and I would say that it is excellence! This is a demonstration of how the Greek state operates, without a contract having been satisfied, one of them is the distribution contract, without a single euro being taken by the Greek state, without a single euro being taken by the GOI, you come today and tell us that the investment in Greece has already begun for ten days! When do you want to go to Greek together to see if one of these loaders dug a tea, to see if he got dirt out to get ground? It's only the five demolitions! Of course, we are asking you today when the permits came out because we have learned that licensing of demolition came out after the Prime Minister left the room. It'll be fun to illegal this demolition! It'll be the excellence of this. Today you come and tell us you underestimated the complexity. And why don't you come out and say an apology to the Greek people, "we blamed SYRIZA for the work was very complicated than we imagined." Why? The votes are good to take them with political fraud, but we are not telling the Greek people the truth! Not to tell you that on the basis of the policy we had, in the proper process and demolition and disposal of shares, the project would now have begun. You, however, put in and the port and parking places and public spaces and the height of buildings and made it even more difficult for the Greek public. and you are coming today and you are amending the scheme for the distribution of immovable property by means of an exceptional procedure for the distribution, by circumventing the existing provisions, because they are distributed without a notarial document, because the ownership of public and public land has not yet been attributed, and therefore it is impossible to issue the necessary attestations - certificates - and you admit in the explanatory statement that there is an objective inability to conclude the distribution contract, because the certificates to be issued cannot be attached to it. Of course, with this new invention that you have found in the future, I wonder how many more amendments you will pass, because I do not know if a notary will be found who would agree to proceed with such a notary act, which is not clear about the location of the real estate, is not yet clearly the background and the plans. Why, imagine, someone coming to make sure that the buildings you demolished are not demolished and put into practice as well in the concession contract? What engineer is coming to sign such a plan? Also, the fact is, you did all this for a fake bulldozer show. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. In addition, you also modify the start of the surface right. Be careful while it has to be done with the distribution contract, you prolong it for later. Ninety-nine years will not begin with the distribution contract. What for? Because you know that you will not complete the process of delivering shares and you also have a regulation in the Greek company to unilaterally amend the regulation of the region, leaving a word on that, Mr Vésiropoulos, I would like your opinion. Will you write in the recital that this can also be applied to the cavalry and the beach, while it is clear that this reference to the cavalry and the beach does not correspond to the legislation? Why is he entering the recital? Do you also make mistakes and allow the company "ELELANDI" to retrospectively amend this regulation, so you are also migrating legal certainty for the interested parties who are going to come there? Madam President, we do not consider it accidental that this amendment comes one day before the start of the LAMDA DEVELOPMENT bond debate, because investors have left. We will be waiting for the next amendment, both from Mr Stakoura and from the government. We are sure that we will see you again about the Greek, because you do not have the ability and the ability to proceed with this investment, because you do not have the ability and the ability to solve problems for the benefit of the Greek state. Your curiosity is certain to bring other mistakes. But what we are most interested in is the interests of the Greek state and the Greek economy. We make it clear to you that the economy and investment are not done with a show by apprentices or apprentices of bulldoziers. The progressive governance solution will also bring economy and investment and jobs. And that's what SYRIZA's next government will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Foreign Minister, Mr Zavvos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u112	Madam President, I would ask the floor for a minute on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u113	Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u114	I didn't say anything about the staff. You will also give me the floor, Madam President, to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u115	You didn't mention my face?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u116	Did I touch you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u117	You told me to apologize.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u118	Did that remind you, Mr. Levant? I shall take the floor later, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u119	What can I say to you, if you don't understand any of this, I can't teach you such a lesson.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Levane, you're wasting your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u121	I admire the perseverance of Mr Famello and the permanent enthusiasm he has as his personality, to wish with passion to participate permanently in a dialogue of deaf persons. Mr. Mitsotakis' credibility doesn't expect you to judge her. The world's instruments have been judged by it, by the whole world, by Europe and the entire Greek people, even those who voted for SYRIZA in the last elections. Since August, as you rightly said, we started working in Greek with the ministerial decisions. What were we trying to do? To solve what you have not solved, but also to get into the solution to the problems you have created from the idealism you have had, so that this work will never be done. I personally apologise, Mr Famele, for I have never believed the size of this idealism, which your party had, and you still have, as far as I can see, in blocking and continuing to prevent any investment, which can bring money to the Greek economy, to revitalise the Greek economy, namely, the idealism and passion, the hatred you have about the investment of the Greek, which you have not told us whether you want or do not want to create these twelve thousand jobs and seventy thousand jobs as long as it is developed, which will be about 2.5% of GDP and will bring more than 14 billion to our state and budget. This investment - landmark - does SYRIZA want it, or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u123	Madam President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u124	No, there's no personal, Mr. Famele. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Lebanese, who took the floor, was there a personal one?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Famelle, you asked him to apologize. Answer what you said. You have a parliamentary representative. He'll answer when the time comes to talk. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Today we will discuss the corporate governance bill. However, before that, the KINAL Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Loverdos, referred personally to me and to some issues relating to wider banking choices and, in particular, to one of the ways in which red loans can be reduced. Mr. Loverdos referred to a choice, which is bad bank and left asymmetrical assumptions that I am taking some positions eminently personal or that the Ministry stands in terms of principles or that we are at risk when it comes to text laws or that there may be a difference with the Bank of Greece. I would like to say that this is not the case. And they do not apply, because as far as the issue of the choices to reduce red loans is concerned, you all know, since it has been passed by this House, the 'ERAKEL' Act, an extremely successful systemic project to reduce red loans, which is in full progress, despite the crisis, since we already have a bank that has submitted three requests for guarantees for securitisations of EUR 7.5 billion, which have been approved. Other systemic banks will incorporate their securitisations into the ‘HRAKLE’ this year. The main element, however, on the issue raised by Mr. Lovers, is that the Greek Prime Minister himself gave the answer on 17 June 2020, in an interview with "BLOOMBERG", who, when asked about the Bank's plan for the bad bank, for the purpose of reducing non-performing loans, replied: "it is a choice, but I do not think it is necessary now." This is the position of the Greek Government and is not the position of a minister or State Secretary. However, I wanted to say that for all the comments or questions made by Mr Lovers and others, the Minister of Finance said a few days ago that the most appropriate place to be discussed is in a committee where we will have all the time and give all the information that Members need so that they can think about specific plans. I, however, am, as you know, willing at any time and without time to sit down, to discuss - and I mean privately - all these technical, economic, supervisory and budgetary issues, with great pleasure, because I believe that the issues specifically relating to the banking system must be approached with the necessary infantry, with those solid arguments that we need to have when we face such major problems. I also wanted to say that I referred to the rule of law, because there are different and distinct institutional roles. However, this does not prevent the players from cooperating productively in order to find a solution to common problems. Madam President, I would like to say that we are wrong today with the bill we are debating, which is of particular importance and importance, as demonstrated by both the discussions in committee and the opinions expressed by the institutions. We are very pleased to note that there is a significant, substantial convergence of views on the essentials of this draft law. This means that this House can, in time, respond to such challenges, such as the upgrading of the capital market, the stock market, by reviewing the law on corporate governance. There are some basic reasons which lead the government to bring this bill to the vote: The first reason is the broader reform programme in which the law on capital markets and corporate governance is being revised. The second reason is that it comes to the day after a scandal, which, as we know, devastated our country in the international investment community and, above all, abducted the reputation of the Greek business community. We have seen recently, and especially these days in particular, that the audit report of companies which shows that FOLLI FOLLIE's financial statements were fundamentally incorrect and that the absence of internal audits and the inadequate internal information system were found. Of course, as mentioned above, this scandal is not only Greek. There are these days in progress research into other scandals in other major countries, such as Wirecard. We are really in a, not just national, but a pan-European or global phenomenon that needs to be addressed immediately. The third reason is that we need this bill, this law because the previous framework dates back to 2002 and urgently modernise it. Its modernisation is mainly urgent because, as we have said, major processes are under way for the acceleration of the European Securities and Markets Union. I will focus only on some of the big issues that I believe concern this bill. The first is the debate on self-regulation or legally binding rules. The dilemma is known and somehow old. Self-regulation has also been attempted at European level with the various recommendations that the European Commission has sometimes made, but also at Greek level. In particular, however, on corporate governance issues, we know that the results were not satisfactory, they were not positive. As I say, the market may salute, but it does not always follow these rules. That is why at European level and in our country we now have more rules of positive law than rules of soft law. In any case, we want the chain of factors on the capital market, this critical economy ecosystem, namely listed companies, the sworn auditors, ELTE, the Stock Exchange, the Securities Committee itself, to be governed by transparency rules and to operate with best practices to inspire investors confidence. The second issue raised by several Members was the strengthening of the capital market committee itself. That is why we are bringing some quasi-institutional areas, as we have said, directly related to the strengthening of the capital market committee itself, with the participation of the President of the European Parliament at the Board of Directors of the Securities and Market Committee. Secondly, we have called for a memorandum of cooperation between the Securities and Markets Committee and ELTE, in order to improve, maximise the synergy between these two institutions, so that we can have effective controls and supervision. The third issue is sanctions. It is true that the government has proposed very strict sanctions. From EUR 50,000 to the auditors, we have proposed the penalty, the fine of EUR 1 million. We believe that these sanctions are necessary and are not a stimulus. If they are a stimulus, they are precisely for these vowed auditors who have once signed accounts of companies with subsidiaries in third countries and have not checked them. The fourth issue concerns corporate governance itself. And here I think we are introducing an effective corporate governance system with a number of committees. Firstly, the Internal Audit Committee, secondly, the Regulatory Compliance Committee and, thirdly, the Risk Identification Committee, which we think will greatly strengthen the functioning of the companies. Criteria for suitability, criteria for independence and 25% of quota for equal representation of sex on the boards of directors are also introduced. Madam President, we have also made a number of legislative improvements, as we have given the Securities Committee the opportunity to determine the content of the term of fitness, and to identify the issue of calculating and measuring the amount of sanctions per infringement, in order to respect the principle of proportionality, which, as we know, is always necessary. Another significant improvement that we have introduced and which the Minister and the rapporteur of the Couple proposed was the revision clause. This means that, within two years of the implementation of the law, reports will be drawn up on the functioning of the framework, which will be given to this House and proposals for improvements can be made at the same time. However, we know that this bill, even when it is passed, is only a first, although important, step which will contribute to the qualitative upgrading of the capital market, the stock market and its institutional framework. We know that this is not enough if we are really aiming at upgrading, competitiveness and the extroversion of the Greek capital market. That is why, as mentioned above, we have set up a committee of experts with all the actors on the capital market and we will have specific proposals in a short time, with a view to the strategic development of the Exchange and the capital market. There is also, at the same time, already a legislative committee on co-financing. I'd still say that's not enough. And it will be necessary after a possible revision of the framework, after two years, to re-examine the introduction of a comprehensive regulation for the Securities and Markets Committee with a view to modernising it, in order to become a safer and more reliable partner, in the context of strengthening European supervision of the capital markets. We should also make a comprehensive review at some point of the status of the chartered auditors and of the ELTE because, as we see, this kind of process is currently being carried out in most European countries. Madam President, we have said that the government's targets with all the revisions and reforms it introduces fall within the perspective of the European Union of the capital markets, which should at some point have a single supervisory authority in the standards of banking supervision, of the SSM, so that the confidence of the investment public is fully consolidated, but there should also be more effective supervision, especially for international investment banks. One final point is that the institutional reform of the supervision of the capital markets and the stock market is urgently urgent because of the prospect of operating the recovery fund, which sets out specific targets for the resources to come from the European funds, including green growth and digital transition. It is important to be fully equipped with that institutional infrastructure so that we can use the potential benefits. But we know that the efforts we are going to make, although important, are likely to require improvements at regular intervals. A lot will depend on the application of this law. Much will depend even more on the social responsibility of the players on the capital market, the stock market and the business world. But we know that the law can regulate certain things, especially with its regulatory power. However, it will always be the challenge of human nature to comply with the law. And I believe that this challenge, particularly in terms of the sphere of morality, has been very well illustrated by our national poet, Elytis, saying that the issue is 'to go to the market without becoming a market'. I would like to thank you in particular and ask the House to vote in favour of the bill under discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Ladies and gentlemen, MP Thesprotia of the New Republic, Mr Yoyakas Vassilis, is calling for a short-day absence from 24 to 28 July 2020. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u129	The House therefore approved the requested authorisation. Now Mrs. Gara has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes. Come on, Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by tabling two very important figures on unemployment in eastern Macedonia - Thrace above all, because here in this Chamber and before the Greek people, truths must be heard. Unfortunately, the New Democracy has become accustomed to lying, but the lies it tells does not mean that they also change the reality experienced by the Thraces and all Greeks. December 2014, Government of New Democracy 24.2% unemployment in eastern Macedonia and Thrace. March 2019, after the four-year period of SYRIZA, unemployment rate in eastern Macedonia and Thrace 15.9%, below nine points, with positive balance and business creation. This is because I have heard twice or three times from MPs and the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative succeeded with lies against the hard work done by SYRIZA in the field of labour. I have chosen to take the floor today to refer only to two provisions relating to Thrace, but also to Evros. The first relates to Article 4 of the amendment tabled and comes to settle an old pendingness of the governments between 2010 and 2015 on the payroll subsidy through the OAED, known to us in Thrace as 12% of the businesses in the border regions of the country. This provision provides for the possibility that companies have not received debts from 2010 to 2015 to governments of New Democracy and PASOK, to offset them with existing and future public requirements. Obviously, it is good that this injustice that has finally caused a huge blow to Thrace's businesses under the sole responsibility of the New Democracy and the PASOK has been restored, not only because since 2009, the money has not been paid, but because they have not corrected the errors in the law making this provision so that for many years debts have been accumulated in businesses, many that have been closed or even transferred to another country. You accused SYRIZA of abolishing your own non-legislative provision, but you do not tell the Greek people that we had many negative recommendations from the European Commission and the Competition Committee. You are not saying that today by this provision you are definitively abolishing the measure and the incentives. You are not saying that SYRIZA left you full of funds and you have the opportunity today to make this arrangement. You're not saying SYRIZA replaced that non-legislative motive and you don't implement it. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a positive interest in Thrace, but it is not tolerated by the Thracians and the Thraces, the crocodile tears. Because for the deterioration of Thrace, for the lack of infrastructure, for high unemployment, for the shells, for the subsidies from the investment laws that went to very specific pockets, the New Democracy has huge responsibilities. However, even this provision through the amendment remains lacking with many loose ends and it is necessary to allow beneficiaries who did not apply for 2010-2015 to submit it, setting a limit for the application to be made within three months of the adoption of the draft law. You must also include 2009 debts. We do not understand why these debts are excluded. It is also necessary to allow the taxable amount at the choice of the undertaking to be taxed. The future liabilities in order to offset the right to payment must be made at the choice of the beneficiary at the request of the relevant institution. At the same time, the amount requested and entitled to be offset only by capital due. And finally, the relevant surcharges and interest to be deleted. Please, Minister, incorporate these regulations which are also the demands of local bodies. At the same time, however, you are demanding, ladies and gentlemen, that together create new financial instruments and incentives for businesses in border regions, not only for businesses to be more competitive but also for support to be given to labour, economic and social life in remote areas. In addition, Mr Ministers, you should also manage cross-border issues with greater seriousness, especially at this time, such as your decision to close the Ormenio and Nymphalia customs by excluding all Thrace from the tourist stream. In particular, following the government's decision to enter visitors, since they have previously carried out tests, we do not understand why only the office of Promahona is open. Is the carpet business and the workers a second class for you? We haven't received a reply. However, the main thing I would like to point out - and I would also like to see an answer from you - is why you do not implement the adopted law on the Government of SYRIZA, which gives incentives and financial support to enterprises in border regions. It's been almost a year and you don't make the required ministerial decision. In particular, the Government of SYRIZA in April 2019 voted for Law 4608 under the heading ‘Greek Development Bank and the attraction of strategic investments and other provisions’. This law has included a provision in Article 41 specifically, which provides for aid in the form of a grant to cover operating costs of small and micro-enterprises operating at the border and in less developed areas. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Because of a lack of time I will not mention exactly what the provision stipulates. However, I wonder why it deprives business revenues. Why don't you implement the law adopted, and there's a budget line. Because you are depriving the firms of these subsidies. I would like your tolerance, Madam President, for a while. Finally, let me refer also to Article 2 of the amendment which facilitates the granting of private property to GAESOSE within a terrestrial port area. The provision may look general, but we all understand that the port of Alexandroupolis is photographed, which you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, are faced with as another fillet that must also be sold out without conditions, to sell it out, indifferent to the geostrategic, geopolitical and national importance of the port in question. You sell out the package of the Port Authority Alexandroupolis, which concerns four and not just a port, ignoring the fact that the ports located in the Thracian Sea have an irreplaceable role in protecting the borders for the defence of the country. And you are now coming to give this possibility to a foreign investor in full. Avoiding to indicate that the sale of the share package also means abolishing the public management body and transferring all the private activities and port services. You hide that by selling the port of Alexandroupolis you break the intact relationship between the city and the port. Local society will no longer have any reason in the life of the harbor. You are about to fly out of the port, in the basket of unusable, amateur and professional fishermen, maritime clubs in the area, cultural clubs, professionals that have been active in the port for years. At the same time, you are ignoring the international practice of the port industry for the use of ports where the model of the concessions and leases of structures and activities for use, a model that we have also legislated as a government. No developed country makes use of its ports by transferring shares, property and management to a private person. Finally, you should explain exactly how you will go ahead with our country's national development strategy in critical areas for the national economy, such as the development of transport and product distribution networks, the development of the supply chain and others. How will this proceed when you sell out into private basic infrastructure in the country and even national in nature, such as the port of Alexandroupolis? What if the private person has plans quite differently for the area from what we are building as a state through the national development strategy? If regional and local development programmes are at the opposite foot of what is sought by the private sector, what are your security differences in order to achieve national objectives in critical sectors of the economy? Thrace and the country in general will depend on the appetites of a foreign investor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u131	Mrs. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u132	I shall conclude, Madam President. Just a phrase. If the investor is not interested, for example, in the development of the tourist profile of the port, so that the development of the city of Alexandroupolis can also be helped, then what are we going to do? If he is interested in developing in the port a rich activity, a heavy-formed industry with an appalling negative impact on the city, or even if the individual wishes for his own reasons or ultimately has to keep in a deadly immobilisation for years the port of Alexandroupolis, how exactly will you ensure the public and social interest? From this Stepma I invite you to review this appalling and disastrous decision to sell out the port of Alexandroupolis, which is mainly a port of national importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mr Stylus has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u134	Thank you very much, Madam President. Before entering the bill, I would like to make a statement about the Turkish President's decision to turn Agia Sophia into a mosque, a challenge towards Western civilization and Christianity. This action causes all Orthodox Greeks deep pain, grief and indignation. It adds tension and distrust to our bilateral relations. So I join my voice with all those who on the globe are concerned about the sustainability of the monument, mosaics and images. Agia Sophia is a global cultural heritage, a cradle of interreligious dialogue and rational coexistence. We Greeks Agia Sophia carry it within us, unscathed in time. No one is in a position to alter this intransigent internal treaty. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the draft law on corporate governance of public limited companies, a modern capital market, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2017/828 of the European Parliament and of the Council, measures to implement Regulation (EU) 2017/1131 and other provisions. This draft is made up of three parts. The first part relates to the Exchange, the second part to corporate governance and the third part to the other provisions. This draft law contributes to the effective corporate governance of public limited companies and modernises the existing framework for the operation of the capital market with a view to strengthening the competitiveness of the Greek economy. The Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis, taking into account the great importance of the responsible business activity, promotes a draft law which contributes to increasing the confidence of shareholders and stakeholders in enterprises, attracting international investors, the long-term sustainable development of enterprises, facilitating the creation of flexible forms of alternative investment organisations, in order to encourage investment in newly created enterprises and start-ups, as well as the proper functioning and incorporation of effective business management practices. The first part of the bill modernises corporate governance of public limited companies through good governance rules. Among other things, it seeks to protect the legitimate interests of all shareholders, but especially minority shareholders against large shareholders. The transparency of the management's activities towards shareholders is ensured, the responsible organisation of the management function and the control of a company with a view to increasing value is sought. I would like to point out to you at this point that corporate governance has so far been governed by Law 3026/2002. You all realise that in the last eighteen years the data in force in relation to the economy, businesses and their operation have changed radically. The reform of this institutional framework is therefore imperative and imperative. There have therefore been many changes in the legislative framework governing the actions of companies in the European Union with the departure of the United Kingdom, as well as the last pandemic and the changes that COVID -19 has made to the way companies operate. In this period, therefore, the current draft law is both critical and timely for the global economy. The provisions of the bill provide for companies to have a policy of suitability for members of the boards of directors. Provisions are also introduced setting out the transparency and timely and complete information obligations of the shareholders and of all shareholders, as well as a number of other provisions. The second part of the bill sets out arrangements such as issues relating to the establishment, licensing, operation and disposal of alternative investment funds, the aim of which is to develop the economy, to expand the economy and to strengthen entrepreneurship, to set up and operate these companies in Greece in the form of investment funds in the form of models from other European Member States. I now come to the third part of the bill, to the other provisions, and I refer to the doses for the ENPI, which are increasing from five to six for the year 2020. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000. There is also an important initiative and a tax reduction is provided for the one-off payment of the tax by natural persons, a move that shows that he is rewarded by him who is consistent, who will pay the money in advance. It's given a bonus and an incentive so that he's rewarded, but the revenues also have a good course. The Prime Minister announced in the debate in Parliament a reduction in the tax advance for enterprises that have a 35% reduction in turnover in relation to the first half of 2019, and the tax advance is set to decrease from 30% to 70% for all other companies. We have a second round of repayable advance that includes professionals with no employees and no cash machine. Many of these are seasonal and tourist business. There is an extension to the programme 'COMPANY WORK' with 60% of the employers' contributions from August to October. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law reflects the way the Greek Government works in relation to the economy, reflects the honesty, consistency, morality and responsibility of the current government. Reliability is the one that strengthens confidence and then trust improves expectations, which premium the government's efforts to quickly and firmly correct the Greek economy. That is why I call on you all to vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u135	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Ms Bakadima has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me not to start with the bill, but by stating that a few hours ago he was found dead by his mother, the young protester who had denounced a while ago that he was beaten by policemen at the gathering of protesters against the burning of garbage in Volos. The unfortunate young man had to be treated with severe injuries to vital organs. I don't get used to making charges without proof, I won't do it right now. That's why we're looking forward to the coroner's forensic finding that will light up his cause of death. I thought, however, that it was something that should be heard in the Chamber today. I would also like to say that we are following this issue with great interest, but also the communications that have been made from the Ministry of Civil Protection and we will come back when we consider it necessary. Let us now move on to the draft law under discussion. A lot of ink has been spilled over time on the corporate governance issue, with many proposed models, different degrees of control, literature on the subject is really extensive. If we look at historical data, we will see that the definition of corporate governance was first given to the United Kingdom in 1992 and it was the system of rules, practices and procedures through which a company is run and controlled. It refers to both the way and the purpose for which the undertakings are run. Corporate governance ensures that companies have the internal decision-making and control procedures required to take into account the extent to which the interests of all stakeholders such as shareholders, employees, suppliers, customers, society, etc. are required by regulating the functioning of the board in relation to the shareholders of the company. The ultimate purpose is to develop a climate and a feeling of self-confidence and the confidence shown by interested parties in the company that it has strong foundations. Corporate governance seeks the responsible organisation, operation, management and control of a company, with the aim of increasing its value and protecting the legitimate interests of all its shareholders, mainly the minority shareholders vis-à-vis the large shareholders. In our country it was introduced by the laws of 3016 and 3091 of 2002. It concerns listed companies on the Athens Stock Exchange. These corporate governance is controlled by the Securities and Markets Committee. But every debate in our country, which mentions even the stockbrokered on the stock market, cannot turn us back to the 1999 Exchange scandal. We all remember that in the previous years before 1999 a number of positive factors, such as the country's accession to EMU, the possibility of the Olympic Games being held in 2004 by Greece, had all cultivated a climate of optimism that made almost one and a half million Greeks working on the Stock Exchange in '99. If there was not - we all remember it - shop, hairdresser, coffee, paper, taxi, media public transport that someone - if not everyone - does not speak on the phone with his broker, have an economic paper in the hand, or even many think that they can play the role of the broker themselves. In addition, everyone had information on paper that would run, for mergers, takeovers, slot shares and capital increases. All this massive employment that has brought about and huge demand has made all the shares go up with inconceivable data returns. For example, the share of the company ATHENS PARTICIPATES in January 1997 was EUR 0.17 on 17 September 1999, at EUR 55.73, record yield, 30.866%. There was no doubt that there was manipulation and misinformation through the then press and also due to a large number of brokers - a monkey, who were able to land our fellow citizens who thought they would be able to multiply their profits. He was winning next door, he had a very good, sure piece of paper, he was telling you, you wanted to win too. So, too many chose to give whatever savings they had, to sell even whatever property they had, by giving money they had either to borrow or to divest real estate and everything else they had in possession so that they could do it. Unfortunately they were amounts lost, resulting in these people being driven to despair, too many in suicide. We all remember that at the time all the misleading articles that created a climate of prosperity were not missing, making every micro-investor an easy victim. Who can forget the post that wanted to buy the Italian 'BENETTON'. Obviously, it wasn't true. Just the inflated price of "KLONATEX" misled someone who did not know and made him look like the coloss company. Indicative of the thirst that the Greeks had for the Stock Exchange is the fact that in large, small towns and towns, as well as in villages, the Greeks fleeed like mushrooms, which acted as intermediaries of stock companies. According to official figures in the early '99s, they were about three hundred, while at the end of the same year they were estimated to have more than tripled, reaching the thousands. However, every sharp and polished rise in lawmaking is followed by a fall, which in the case of the Athens Exchange began in September '99. To turn to the example of "Athens Entities", from 18,993 drachmas on pick on 17-9-1999 fell to 542 drachmas, 1,59 euros in February 2001, recording 97% losses. While a similar course of rise and fall had dozens of companies. Some of the greatest protagonists of that time were: "ERMIS", "ERGAS", "HALYVDEFALLS", "SIGALS", "ESKIMO", "NATURES', "ALKAR" and many others. Unfortunately, many of the shares that had been introduced on the Stock Exchange proved to be bubbles, i.e. without discernment of shares, with companies without work, but exclusively for the attractive image on the Stock Exchange. To remind you that a bubble in an asset is created when its price starts to rise much more than the levels at which it should normally vary, without any particular reason. Just because people think that this is going to happen, which without doubt was the case for most of the speakers at that time, although if anyone then made a simple reference to the term "fuss" would actually create many enemies. Despite the fact that, ladies and gentlemen, the stock market scandal was investigated by justice without being blamed, as the culmination was attributed to the international fall of indicators, despite the discussions on major political responsibilities of the then ruling party and the leadership of the Ministry of Finance, since we all remember - it is not many years ago - the then Prime Minister and the Minister of National Economy to urge citizens to invest in the new strong Greece. Our fellow citizens, those who have lost their property and have fallen victim to epilepsy, have never recovered those who have lost. So someone would expect in a country that has such a prehistoric history when we were here to discuss a corporate governance bill, to have in our hands a fully-fledged and well-informed piece of legislation. However, this does not appear to have such virtues. On the contrary, at first reading, it appears to be rather vulnerable in setting up and operating internal supervisory mechanisms and external control. We consider it to contain a large number of ambiguities or even contradictions in the provisions relating to the functioning of the Management Board, the procedures for suitability, the allocation of responsibilities between members, the functioning and procedures of the committees set up, the way in which a corporate governance system is set up, and so on. A number of points could be more stringent, such as, for example, establishing a majority of independent members in the management boards of companies, providing for more frequent, but also more substantial internal and external audits. Insert insurance for greater transparency and accountability. A lot could be added. Acknowledging however the need to modernise the institutional framework, in the case of corporate governance, since the relevant laws have been passed in 2002 and as the need is to keep up with what is defined by EU law, as we have said, we will vote'residences' in this bill, not being able to overlook that although you could create a narrower and stricter framework, you have chosen, ladies and gentlemen, for your own reasons, the sure solution of steam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, my colleague. Now Mr Spankis has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, today through eighty-six articles we legislate properly for the real needs of the market. Allow me, however, before I begin my position on this bill, which is about the corporate governance of public limited companies, to speak of the amendment that comes from the Greek, which is part of my constituency. I would like to make a special reference to the fact that you who have doubted that this government is promoting reforms for investment in order to develop in the country, now you are coming to Parliament and you are not voting on those amendments that create flexibility in order to promote and reduce red tape in investment. So, do you decide, gentlemen, that you vote at the end of the day on those amendments that go ahead with the investments that bring jobs, that bring growth in the country, or are you just in a denial, just to be in a denial, to justify your position? We have in front of us a critical bill that introduces regulations on corporate governance of listed public limited companies and really modernises the functioning of the Greek capital market, the Securities and Market Commission, in line with European standards. Three features are the zombie of this bill: transparency in anonymous companies, real strategy in anonymous companies and efficiency measurable for these companies. In the positive terms of the draft law, it is also the important consultation that preceded and dialogue with the institutions and the acceptance that exists in our Parliament. The first part updates the institutional framework for corporate governance with a view to consolidation, more effective control of administrations and, of course, to the protection of shareholders, investors and the public. In particular, the arrangements for the Governing Council are considered to be important and positive, as they contribute decisively to the transparency of the operations of the companies. In simple terms, the provisions of the draft law introduce serious safeguards, which was needed by the market for so-called barleymen, who, as the main profession, had the bankruptcy of companies in such a way that neither they had any professional sanctions nor the main shareholders of the companies could start a new cartel-free activity. The examples are many, let me not mention them in this Step, but you know very well. This bill puts an end to the barn people and these market distortions. In particular, the following shall be implemented: Obligation on listed companies to have a policy of suitability for the members of the board of directors, both individually and collectively, so that this is done by the competent and appropriate persons in relation to the size, characteristics and activities of the company concerned. The detailed provision of responsibilities and fields of responsibility of the Management Board shall be introduced. Two new committees of the Governing Council, the remuneration committee and the candidate committee are being introduced with serious, important and important rapporteurs to the Governing Council. It is intended to require companies to have detailed rules of operation. There is an obligation for companies to apply a specific corporate governance code. Details of the obligation to inform and inform shareholders and investors are inserted in order to support the performance of their duties and to protect them, and a unit of corporate communications is also set up to inform the investors. In the second part of a draft law, we have arrangements for the modern capital market. In particular, they include the incorporation into Greek legislation of the European Directive to encourage the long-term participation of shareholders and the operation of alternative investment organisations in Greece in the form of mutual capital following the standards of other Member States of the European Union. Alternative investment agencies will make a significant contribution to the financing of SMEs in particular. It is an alternative form of funding. We come and make a sound legislative intervention on the functioning of the market as, as we all know, few have access to bank lending. In the post-Covid era, when the economy was very severely tested, there is an urgent need to strengthen Greek entrepreneurship. In the third part of this bill, we have arrangements for the internal functioning of the Securities and Exchange Commission to strengthen the validity of the Greek stock exchange. The aim is to increase listed companies and investment. After all, this was our election objective, which we are implementing through legislative interventions, such as the current one. The role of the Securities and Markets Committee is strengthened, while sanctions become more stringent. With this draft law, the conditions are in place for a serious and reliable Greek stock exchange that will put our country on the market map. Finally, in the fourth part, we have the anticipated provisions on how to pay the income tax for natural and legal persons. Specifically, what we promised a few days ago about the number of instalments of income tax and HISPIA, for the discount that comes back. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. The tax reduction in the one-off payment comes after five tax uses and is 2%. It's coming back after five years. Here you see that the New Democracy Government rewards consistency. It really comes to pursue a tax policy that is friendly to taxpayers and, above all, to be identical to the real needs of the market and the Greek taxpayers. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u139	And thank you, Mr. Comrade, The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party, Mr Karathanasopoulos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Of course they are making friendly efforts, both in the government and in the other opposition parties, to obscure a reality, that is to say, the reality that workers, self-employed professionals, poor medium-sized farms, popular strata as a whole, have to cover up the guilty, the true enemy of the people. You give daily examinations to the bourgeoisie, the ruling class and the imperialist organizations who are the best manager, who has the integrated plan to implement the needs and interests of the monopolistic groups and to proceed with the imperialist designs in our area. You seek to manipulate popular discontent, to incorporate it into each option to alternate the administrator. And yet, governments and managers are changing, the path of worsening the people is continuing, the anti-popular attack is escalating. Let us see overall how this strategic agreement is expressed on matters. Let us begin with the amendments made by the Government: Amendment first to Thrace. Nor does the government, of course, question the need to privatise the port of Alexandroupolis. In fact, you have agreed, and the previous government today, that the port of Alexandroupolis should be delivered to US interests. With Pyatt, the Ministers of the Government of SYRIZA and the New Democracy in Alexandroupolis were together to review the situation, on how work on the construction of the new US helicopter repair base, on how work will be completed at the port of Alexandroupolis, on privatization, on how to make liquefied natural gas storage facilities and the northern pipeline. You are turning the port of Alexandroupolis into a port which serves American imperialist designs in the region and on substance you are turning it into a retaliation target. That's what you're doing. Convert the entire area to a field of firing. There are, however, minor differences here as to how this privatisation will take place, if interests are served. What interests? Is it possible with these policies to serve the interests of workers in the public squares? You are contesting who will give more incentives and subsidies to business groups that are active in eastern Macedonia and Thrace, because you say that there are "strengthening Thermopylae". But bring in an account. What has become of the scandalous motives taken by business groups in Thrace over the past decades? How many earrings have been left in Thrace? ‘ALUMIL’, Lanaras? Should we also say about other business groups that plucked Greek taxpayers' money and carried their business elsewhere? Has there been an attack on the state of worsening the position of workers in Thrace with the incentive you gave, 12%, of the workers' own money to support wage support, as you call it, the cost of businesses operating in Thrace from GDP money? Is the worker's position improved? Has unemployment been tackled as long as this provision was in force? And now you say that you will also have a committee to discuss the question of the development of Thrace. So it's a committee thing to do if the situation changes? We say 'no'. The situation will not change as many committees as you do, precisely because you are supporting growth which serves the interests of the few and the altar of capitalist gains you are sacrificing labour rights and satisfying people's needs. No matter what incentives and subsidies you give, the nature of capitalist development will not change. On the contrary, it will prove its parasitic role and character and it will prove that through this process you legalise a theft, the theft of socially produced wealth by the owners of capitalist enterprises, and the people will experience the deadlocks of the system more and more strongly, the deterioration of the position, the failure to satisfy their modern needs on the basis of the possibilities that exist. Or do you want to see more examples? The contest for the Greek. The former State Secretary for the Environment accused the current government of not having a plan for the development of the Greek. In other words, who will speed up the process of promoting business plans in the Greek for the creation of casinos, skyscrapers and shopping centers, which will cut off access to wider folk layers on the sea front, only to serve specific business interests and the design that the urban ruling class has for the region. This criticism made by SYRIZA, the KIC and the other parties is a criticism convenient to you, because it is speeding up your anti-grass policy and pushing you until you are even more active in implementing this anti-grassroots policy. This is also apparent from other provisions of the amendments, such as Article 1 of the second amendment, where you are basically giving land and water to hotel and tourist groups to exploit the sea and the coast and to develop even more parallel activities. Why are you doing this? In order to be able to enjoy the sea and the coastlines of the Greek people? Since they're excluded from all these procedures, because it's a very expensive sport. So you have transformed the holidays and recreation for the wide popular layers and for our youth, who do not have the economic ability to access these large five hotel units, the integrated tourist development units and these activities. And despite the fact that a capitalist crisis arrives to prove how hollow the words that tourism is saying are the steam engine or the heavy industry of the Greek economy, when the effects will be multiple and when the tourist miracle has been based on the conditions of the gala under which workers are forced to work in tourism, under the intensification of work, under the push of tens, hundreds, thousands of professionals outside the market, because the largest part of the pie is concentrated on the few hotel groups and tour operators. On the other hand, you say that you will put rules on corporate governance, on the stock exchange, on the financial markets to work beautifully and angelically. Is it ever possible to believe that thing? That the company can serve the needs of society, the needs of the workers? The shareholder company serves the needs and interests of its owners, the big shareholders. Is this why you are struggling and will you, as you say, change the rules of operation to make an entrepreneurial business? Where did this thing come from? How can you do that? No matter how many control mechanisms you put, as requested by the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, even if you do hundreds, thousands of checks every day, will you reverse the course of this operation? Haven't you heard what our people say? "As the housekeeper knows, the whole world does not know." And what checks are you going to do? In corporate secrets, bank secrets, how will they cook them so as to develop any business activity? You cannot even - and it is not, by any alternative mechanism and whatever rules you are doing, alter the nature and role of a shareholder, which, in its role, is to steal, guard, through the intensification and exploitation of workers, the socially produced wealth. And that's her character. It can't be done differently. There is no common interest among workers with big shareholders and there cannot be because the interests are competitive. The large shareholders want a cheap workforce, a labour force consumable, so that they can just ensure that they are more competitive and more profitable. And are you trying to cultivate illusions that there will be a corporate governance that will satisfy everyone's interests? It is easier to get the sun out of the west than the share company in capitalism to satisfy both the interests and the big owners and its employees and the social total. On the contrary, he exploits popular needs to be able to make profits. That is why there is this huge result, not only in our country but everywhere, between the sufficient capacities offered by technology and production forces and the level of satisfaction of people's needs. Why is it accumulating worldwide wealth in less and less hands? Why is the vast majority of the people living with the slightest, the people throughout the earth living with the least? What is it? Is this a matter of bad distribution? Is that a matter of management? It is the same uterus of this system, of what you are defending, of poverty, unemployment and wars. In this respect, then, we are clean. We are not going to cultivate any illusions about the role of the financial market share company or, of course, we are not going to overthrow that reality. From this point of view, therefore, we are clearly saying that the only thing that is realistic for the people is to get out of the middle of its true enemy, the visible opponent, which is the interests of the shareholder capitalist company, the individual ownership of the means of production and capitalist profit, so that it can make use of all the productive possibilities to satisfy its own people's needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u141	Thank you very much, my colleague. Now Mr Dermenzopoulou has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, a few words, before going to Thrace, about the draft law. The draft law which the Ministry of Finance introduces to the House is structured on two key pillars. The first pillar brings together a number of innovative and refined areas at corporate governance level of listed companies. The second pillar of the bill seeks to increase competitiveness and harmonise the Greek framework for the operation of the capital market in the newer European standards and data. In this way, therefore, the bill of the Ministry of Finance contributes decisively to strengthening the competitiveness of the Greek economy, attracting foreign investments, as well as ensuring for Greek businesses, in a particularly difficult international economic environment, new and reliable sources of financing. In particular, in Part One and in terms of corporate governance of public limited companies, the draft law provides that there must be criteria for the appropriateness of the members of the board of directors, both individually and collectively, while at the same time strengthening the role of independent members. At the same time, the required organisational structures of the company are substantially upgraded, and clear and specific information obligations are laid down by the company to shareholders and the public. It is particularly important to stress that, in the context of the above interventions, the Government is moving towards an innovative regulation which ensures equal representation of women in the administrative boards by introducing a quantitative criterion of 25%. The above measure actively strengthens equality between the two sexes in the business sector, while at the same time encouraging more active integration of the female population into the production process. The second part of the draft law regulates issues relating to the establishment, licensing, operation and disposal of alternative investment funds. The aim of these arrangements is to boost investment towards start-ups, newly-born companies. In this way, innovation and entrepreneurship will be strengthened in the country, while at the same time, the departure of young people from abroad can be more effectively recovered. At the same time, the legislative framework on the requirements for publication of a prospectus in cases of public securities supply or when securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market is reformed. Finally, aid with additional responsibilities as well as scientific and staff of the Securities and Market Committee is a key element of this draft law. It is the Government's belief that only through the existence of an effective supervisor and a modern framework can the investment and developmental nature of the Greek capital market emerge. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to refer to the amendment on 12% for Thrace operations. For a decade entire, from 2010 until today, there has been no visit by any body, whether in Thrace or Athens, of any step-by-step politicians, individuals or parties, which had not raised the matter. There was no claimive record that it did not have in the first place the payment of 12%. So I would remind you today of the fantasies - who were caught by the 'pain' for Thrace - Members of the SYRIZA, that they had'signature' in the 2015 elections. And not only did they not give it up, but they have already denounced it by decision of their then Minister of State Stathakis, of course, with a view to the incompatibility of the measure with European law, and then failed to give their promise that another way of support would be guaranteed. The current government, therefore, never promises, comes today and implements it. So here's another SYRIZA difference from the New Democracy. They are tasting without realizing, we are implementing without eating. And that's what the Greek citizen wants and understands. That is right, therefore, for Thrace's businesses warmly welcome this amendment. I will put to you, for the Minutes, the text with their labels and the request to see them positively, because it is also just in the spirit that we want to show for Thrace. But there I will insist and agree with Mr Loverdos - he is not here now, but he mentioned it - he is in the immediate adoption of the common ministerial decision, because times are imposing speed and any delay is slowing down the growth efforts. With regard to the resignation of a large number of beneficiaries, as requested by the KINAL Parliamentary Representative, the immediate signature and implementation of the legal instruments will make them obsolete if they fulfil their request. On this point, therefore, I would like to congratulate and thank the Prime Minister, the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance, and all the co-presidents responsible for reintroducing this labour cost subsidy measure to businesses located in border regions of our country. In an extremely difficult economic situation, both for Evros and Thrace, this decision gives life to hundreds of businesses through the strengthening of liquidity and the safeguarding of valuable new jobs. The development initiatives of the Prime Minister and the Government to strengthen the Evros and, more generally, Thrace are not limited to legislating on this measure. At the same time, a cross-party committee on development of Thrace is being set up, while at the same time, with the resolution of the outstandingities that prevented the exploitation of the port of Alexandroupolis, the road is finally opening to attract significant foreign investments, taking advantage of the unique geopolitical position of Evros will turn it into a strong regional transit hub of products and energy. Unfortunately, then, at a time when the international environment is characterised by great instability and tension, the economic shielding of the border regions of the country should be our top political priority for all of us. Only through the creation of a healthy and extroverted local economy, which will offer young people in the region the guarantees to stay and create at their place, will we be able to neutralise any external geopolitical pressures and ensure that our country has a strong place in the region. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is another initiative by the Government towards strengthening the extroversion and dynamism of the Greek economy. As the global economic crisis deepens, the Greek Government is speeding up the reforms that will create the conditions for the faster recovery of our economy. That is why the vote on this bill by this House is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. We will close the procedure with the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Mamulaki, who has asked for the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Very briefly, I will focus on two speeches - pointing out, Minister, on the amendments that will be accompanying them and finally our position on these two amendments. Firstly, the crucial and very important, in our view, which has indeed a strong anti-constitutional time, is the famous second amendment, which is essentially what it is doing? We all know Law 2971/2001, which is essentially the law on which all the philosophy of a saint is based, in a country such as Greece where its coastline is incredibly large and disproportionate in relation to the overall surface. So what do we got here? Do we have your amendment here, which says, Minister? While we all know that projects can be carried out in a marine area, when there are particular conditions imposed and imposed, it is now possible to do what is possible in tourist accommodation - and the concept is, when there is always a self-interest in private interests - to do what? Cables, public utility networks within the sea, plunging even reefs and overheads. We know very well as engineers from coastal dynamism what the reasons for the installation of such submarine structures are, but also greedy reefs over the sea, i.e. issues essentially without public consultation. Be careful, we are talking about a constitutionally shielded right, such as a saint and the beaches, without public consultation, without the technical world knowing about it, without the people interested in urban and environmental issues coming through this amendment today and asking for its vote. I think that it is well-qualified. This is unacceptable for Parliament and the National Representation. It is unacceptable how the National Representation is invited to legislate on this matter. And I'm coming to second intervention. I am making the point here, and I hope that you will resolve it once it comes to it. There is a reference to the fifth article and more specifically it is in the explanatory statement. It is at the point it says, on the third page: "For this reason, in addition to the proposed provision, it is foreseen that any geometric changes made by the distribution contract, the creation of a right to surface on the individual parcels - I am always talking about the Greek - Agios Cosmas - will not...". You know very well, Minister, there's a CIA. Our “good” the spatial planning, the regulatory “good news” is the joint ministerial decision before 2016. I would like to believe that the geometric changes referred to in this subparagraph are minor and are certainly in line with the existing joint ministerial decision. I think that, with a reply from you so much - very soon, you can end it without further issues. In closing - and I respect time, Madam President, as a result of the procedure - I would like to stress the serious and red line for us, the objection to the second amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Kedicoglou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Madam President. I think the bill was detailed. I have nothing to say about the bill, but today it is now twenty-eight years since that tragic moment that a few metres from here a lad, twenty-year-old, lost his life, Thanos Axarlian, victim of violence, victim of hatred, victim of terrorism. I think that I am expressing everyone's spirit by saying that the Greek Parliament, democracy should always have the barrier against terrorism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u147	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u148	I guess my colleague did not follow me in my position on the amendment I supported, on Article 1 of the amendment and on the legal improvement. I'll repeat what I said, because you probably didn't follow me. The first article of Amendment No 394, and a special number 55, is linked to the concept of sustainable and sustainable development of tourism and to the need to harmonise tourism accommodation on the basis of these principles. In particular, hotels, camping and complex tourist accommodation are given the opportunity to set up submarine pipelines and cables for projects such as the installation of biological cleansing in areas where there is no sewerage network and the desalination of water supply areas. At the same time, it allows them to place other structures, such as floating docks and platforms, which contribute to the upgrading of the total tourist product. These projects are part of the authorisation procedure referred to in Article 14 of Law 2971/2001, where, inter alia, a prerequisite for their authorisation is the decision to approve environmental conditions and an approved environmental impact study, two insurers moving towards environmental protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is adjourned: "Company governance of public limited companies, modern capital market, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2017/828 of the European Parliament and of the Council, measures to implement Regulation (EU) 2017/1131 and other provisions". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, eighty-four articles, two amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Every time on the screen there are up to four articles to be voted on. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendment, the hotel article and the whole. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would very much ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u150	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u151	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u152	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Corporate Governance of public limited companies, modern capital market, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2017/828 of the European Parliament and of the Council, measures to implement Regulation (EU) 2017/1131 and other provisions’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u154	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-14-S1-commons.u155	With the consent of this House at 17.01 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 15 July 2020 at 9.00 a.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
