ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Discussion and vote uniformly on the principle, articles and all draft laws of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 1. ‘Preparation of the Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part’ 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Association Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part’. The drafts were adopted in the Standing Committee by a majority. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of these agreements. The two agreements will be discussed together. For the first agreement concerning Armenia, the New Democracy, SYRIZA, the Change Movement, the Greek Solution and the Mera25 voted in favour, while the Communist Party of Greece voted against it. For the second, with regard to Central America, the Communist Party of Greece and the Greek Solution voted against. Therefore, those who have an objection can take the floor. We will start with the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, with Mrs Manolakou. Here, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u2	For both sanctions?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u3	For both. But we'll see on the way. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u4	For the agreement with Armenia: With the people of Armenia, we are linked by ties, for Greeks and Armenians have collaborated for centuries and we are both ancient peoples. This is why they are also mentioned in the notes of the ancient Greek historians, Herodotus, Platos, etc. In this sense, we are in favour of the friendship of the peoples and of equal relations. However, this resolution does not reflect this, despite the wishes of human rights, transport, health, education and others, although this agreement is downgraded in relation to the type of agreements signed by the European Union with other countries. But why? As of 1 January 2015, Armenia has become an official member of the Eurasian Economic Union. As you know, this is an economic union of states, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Russia, which have joined Armenia and Kyrgyzstan. However, the war in Karabakh, which caused an economic crisis in Armenia, stopped in 1994 following Russia's efforts. Armenia therefore maintains a strong alliance with Russia. Indeed, at the request of the Armenian government, Russia maintains a military base in Gyumri, Southwest Armenia, as a deterrent force against Turkey and an air force for the surveillance of Armenia's airspace. Secondly, following Armenia's accession to the Eurasian Economic Union, the negotiation process for an association agreement with the European Union was suspended. Thirdly: Geographically, Armenia is a country where there is intense competition in whose influence the influence will be. This Agreement reflects the controversy with Russia. The European Union is therefore attempting to take advantage of the agreement as a means of penetration, economic and political. That is why they promote this agreement in order to limit or even undermine Russia's influence and increase the European Union's influence. That is why, at the same time, they warn not to use and not to be used by Armenia for exports of products to Russia, which are included in the sanctions to Russia. It is, that is, this well-known embargo. For these reasons, in July 2018 the European Parliamentary Group of the Party of European Socialists voted against this agreement in the European Parliament. We do the same in July 2020 in the Greek Parliament. I'm coming to the deal with Central America. She's commercially interested because of her position. It is a lane with six countries separating the Atlantic from the Pacific Ocean with just one canal, that of Panama, eighty-two kilometers long, with revenues of more than 1.5 billion a year, which mainly controls American monopolies. China and Russia are interested in expanding their own monopolies in the region. In fact, it is well known that they want to go ahead with another huge, competitive panama canal, work. It is the Nicaragua Canal, two hundred and seventy-five kilometres long - it is deeper than the Panama Canal - uniting the Pacific and Atlantic Ocean. Chinese monopolies have been licensed to build and operate for a hundred years, as are Russian capitals taking part in allowing Russian ships and aircraft to cross. Of course, the United States sees it negatively. They're talking about new colonialism in China. They display it on various websites on the Internet and think tanks - they get used to - to highlight the position of the United States. That's the way competition is. Is it also in Piraeus with 'COSCO' and the shipyards that there is no competition? In other words, it also appears in our country. Today, indeed, the trade unions and mass organizations are protesting and having a concert with a slogan "No to the master plan of "COSCO" - not to anti-Fleet business entrepreneurs and government." I mention all this to show that the European Union is also involved in this imperialist competition and in Central America with this agreement, which has a classic and capitalist basis, favouring the monopolies of the participating countries. With this agreement, all three hundred and thirty-three articles by the European Union, at this stage, wants its monopolies to penetrate even more in Central America because of intense competition with other powers. That is why it goes on to specific agreements, including the creation of a common financial mechanism and the presence of the European Investment Bank, the establishment of a free trade area which, of course, increases the areas of action of the monopolies. This is not the first time that the European Union has concluded an agreement with the countries of Central America. There have been others. However, under no circumstances have the general wishes, common to such agreements, to reduce poverty and exclusion, to social cohesion, to decent living conditions, to protect the environment and fundamental rights, and so on. In other words, there are problems that monopolistic capitalism, which both are defending. On the contrary, migration flows from Central America to the United States have increased. Thousands of immigrants - including families and unaccompanied children - leave these countries risk their lives to escape misery, unemployment, drug trafficking, oppression, to escape impoverishment. Such agreements, such partnerships, the European Union signs - and indeed renews earlier - so that it also has a share in the competition of the Imperialist countries and has the maximum effect, of course, on serving monopolies and business groups, i.e. their profitability. Such agreements are not based on and do not relate to the equivalence and mutual benefit of workers, peoples in general, but only to the large business groups. So we will not vote for this agreement either in the sense that it does not concern the interests of the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. To give the floor to the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr Konstantinos Hetas, in order to put him on the second agreement, as on the agenda, in the Association Agreement with Central America. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I will say that it is the only one of the three in which the Greek Solution says 'no'. I'll try to explain to the minutes I'm given the reasons. More generally, the approach of the countries of Central America and cooperation with them is not an easy case. We're talking about areas where immigration strikes red and gang crime is deadly. Drug cartels have so much power to raise governments. And generally we know what exists in those countries. In the global drug traffic map, for example, the countries of Central America have a particularly valuable place. According to a survey by the 2020 World Drug Report, it is in the first place. I think you know that, Minister, but I'll mention it. Also, in trafficking the same countries have a worrying first. In Central America, trafficking in minor girls is, unfortunately, a very widespread case of huge tentacles. In the same countries, ladies and gentlemen, the murders reap. I'm just going to give you some clues: In Honduras, for example, Mr President, there is the largest marker of murder in the world. There are ninety party four murders per 100 thousand. They're amazing numbers. In Belize, which is the most sparsely populated area of Central America, there are forty parties seven murders per 100 thousand. El Salvador becomes a forty party two murders per 100 thousand. In Guatemala there are forty murders every 100 thousand. We're talking about incredible numbers. This agreement and this bill speaks in general terms of a rule of law, of gender equality, of poverty mitigation, of inequalities. These are things that are not achieved by a bill or by an agreement or by the general way that they are mentioned. They're just wishing. Of course, Mr President, there is also the huge issue of illegal immigration, since many Central American countries export huge numbers of illegal immigrants to third countries. So the question is what we as Greece have to gain from this agreement. There are some benefits, which I would at least be mistaken if I did not mention, such as, for example, trade with exports that we could do or tourism from where we could take some examples from some of the practices of the Caribbean States in particular. That's what I'm talking about. You know, Minister, the Caribbean has a world record on cruises because people are making good use of it. Maybe we could sort them out, copy them. We have not exploited it at all, despite the fact that we have enormous potential. They're the big players of the place on the cruises. And I will say this to hear here today in Parliament and listen to both Greek and Greek: Ocean Cay Marine Reserve, for example, until 2016 was an uninhabited Caribbean island, it was a rocky island. So listen to what one of the largest companies on the world cruise market did. He decided this uninhabited island to turn it into a private paradise, which visits cruise ships. The deal is a hundred years old. So the deal is for a hundred years. The amount of the investment is $200 million, six beaches, two thousand spots amphitheater, restaurants, bars. It's worth it sometime then online to see it. I think it's a good idea. Of course, we have inhabited islands in Greece, but we do not use them either for cruise ships or illegal immigrants. I will now go to the first part of the bill - there are four parties, I will make some comments and conclude, Mr President - where there are general and institutional provisions and the objectives of the agreement are mentioned in general. From the way in which a number of articles are formulated, the approach of the agreement on globalisation, which by definition is contrary to the national sovereignty of the states, which is contrary to our own logic, to the logic of the Greek Solution, is apparent. For us, national identity and national sovereignty precedes globalisation. We firmly believe in the national entity of States, but also in their national uniqueness. I'll stay in Article 11. I just want to point out, to be heard, why this is a new fruit - let me say this - we have a tendency in Greece, in Parliament, for parties to change terminologies. We made it a troika. The new is the NGO to call them civil society. It's been on a lot lately. So Article 11 here refers to and encourages the meetings of representatives of civil society. Here, then, it is clearly stated that non-governmental organisations are included. So it's forbidden for us. Let's go to the second part on Articles 12 to 23: regional integration, corruption, drugs, transnational organised crime, trafficking in small arms, light weapons, combating terrorism, reducing poverty. All that I have mentioned are general terms, general concepts which cannot be combated in this way. In the third part relating to cooperation. There are special provisions, as it says here, on immigration. It is also indicated that cooperation shall be based on an assessment of the specific needs, carried out by mutual consultation between the Parties and applied in accordance with applicable Union and domestic legislation. Of course, EU legislation at the moment says about illegal immigrants, leave them to Greece. That is what Union legislation says. And not just that. It seems that we do not react to the principle of non-refoulement, which is also provided for in the draft law. What does this draft law provide for? It provides for re-promotion. So reading these predictions really goes beyond our logic. I'm putting it again. After providing for the readmission of nationals, Minister, whose stay in the territories, as the bill says, is contrary to the respective legal frameworks - that is to say the illegal ones - why do we not find in Greece how many illegal people our country has from Central America? I've told you in committee, and now I'm telling the National Representation. Mr President, the easier, since it provides for an agreement, to see how many of the outlaws from Central America are in our country and on the basis of the bill, which you will vote on today and will pass, to send them back. What's more reasonable than that? We would like to hear from us, Minister, at some point your Ministry, responsiblely, about the specific number of nationals of these countries who are in our country. I shall close, Mr President, in the fourth and final part. facilitation of trade is envisaged. Customs duties are being abolished and, in our view, the economies of the Mediterranean countries and ours are being affected in particular. Especially in our country will the primary sector be affected even further, since cheap products from these countries will be introduced into Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. We close the debate on these two conventions with the position of the Minister. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, I would first like to say that today is a year since the Greek people decided to put an end to the dead-end dilemmas, to populism and decided to trust the country's rulership in Kyriakos Mitsotakis. And one year after all polls, they show that this level of confidence remains strong. For us it's not a birthday in power. It is a year of hard work that has been done for years and years in front of us as well, because the work for society never stops, the work to restore the country's international position never stops and the work to finally bring hope of optimism to Greek citizens will never stop. I think that in the year that passed, we faced both visible and invisible enemies with adequacy. It is important that we also maintain in this Parliament a consensus on issues relating to the treatment of the major national challenges. I am pleased that almost unanimously the Greek Parliament decides to ratify these two agreements of the European Union, in fact showing that we respect the procedures that are being carried out in the European Union. We believe in a stronger European Union in the international area. We believe in a Europe that has a voice beyond the Member States and which can export stability, democracy, economic development. And that is why we are pleased that it is adopted almost unanimously, with the exception of the JRC which reacts to anything that comes from Europe. Last left of another road.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u9	The European Union of monopolies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u10	Mrs Manolaku, you are the last of the Moicans throughout the European Union of five hundred million. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u11	Poverty only bring, misery.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u12	That must concern you at some point, but it is not here. Europe must have a strong voice through its economic power by exporting democracy, the rule of law, stability and respect for our rules. I really wonder, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, about the criticism of the agreement on the countries of Central America from the Greek Solution. What does the Greek solution say to us? It tells us that this agreement is coming and a readmission agreement is finally ratified with all the countries provided for in this agreement. Who are these? It's Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama. In these countries now, after the agreement has been ratified by the Greek Parliament, our country will also be able to send back people who are illegally in our own territory and violate the rule of law. So if you want to send them back, why are you voting against the agreement? What is the logic behind voting against an agreement which serves the purpose that you want to propose? This really shows a terrible confusion, because the European Union and with Greece's pressure it has put on all its bilateral trade agreements now the issue of readmission on migration issues. And the effort we are making at European level for the new proposal on immigration and asylum is to make use of the European Union's trade relations with third countries, so that we can make it easier to return illegal immigrants who are on our territory without formalities, without difficulties, but through a hard binding framework, which we are currently achieving and coming and accept the criticism why we are not sending them back. Why don't you vote for it, so we can send them back if you want to? This is indeed a dimension of criticism which I did not see in the Commission either. And I have waited for and hope to convince you with what I am telling you that this agreement will be passed by the overwhelming majority of the parties, who believe in the European perspective of the country and believe that through the collective actions of the European Union and our presence and the agreements signed by the European Union serve national interests, as well as the interests of our country not to become an admission pole and country of admission of illegal immigrants from all over the world, which, unfortunately, has been done because Turkey has finally become the host of ambitious and ambitious illegal immigrants from all sides of the planet. And there are not few of those who have been found by the countries of Central America in the hot spots of the eastern Aegean and we cannot send them back, because there is exactly one kind of agreement that is missing. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteurs very much, because in the debate that took place in the committee they showed that they have each one of their side illustrating and analysing the aspects of the agreement. I think it was an excellent suggestion, and I would like to congratulate them on everything that has been said. I would like to say to you that we consider the continuation of this policy on the part of the European Union to be something that strengthens it and, together with the European Union, of course, our country, which is now gaining access to markets where it has so far not given any practical significance or has not had the tools through which it could export its products. We want to stimulate the extroversion processes. The fact that we now have trade agreements with the countries of Central America gives us the right to export a number of products, whether from the industrial sector or from the pharmaceutical or agri-foodstuffs, which are the main pillars of our own exports. And we'll do it by transforming, of course, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs into a ministry and economic extroversion beyond diplomacy. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u15	There's no adversarial at all. Not provided. A single debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is hereby concluded: ‘Following the Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part’. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u16	Obviously the rapporteurs are voting. The rapporteurs also have the next ratification. Contracts shall be voted on separately. So they'll stay. And you will remain in order to sign both the report by the rapporteurs and the special speakers. Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u17	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u18	Consequently, following the conclusion of the vote with the electronic system, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Definition of the Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part’, was accepted by a majority of the united majority on the principle, the articles and the whole. [[The above contract due to large volumes is not recorded in the Minutes and is in digital format on the website of the Greek Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving on to the second bill of today's agenda. It is the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Under the Association Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part’. A single debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is hereby concluded: ‘Under the Association Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part’. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. The rapporteurs and the special speakers are voting. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u19	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u20	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u21	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Under the Association Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part’, was accepted by a majority of the articles and the whole. [[The above convention, due to large volumes, is not recorded in the Minutes and is in digital form on the website of the Greek Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u22	The House has given the mandate requested. At this point we will be adjourning until about 11.45 hours in order to have the debate at first...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u23	Why so late, Mr. President? 11 a.m. was the program.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u24	There's a coma from the Minister. And the parties have been notified in good time that we will have this time of resumption. So we will come back at 11.45' with the discussion and vote uniformly at the outset, the articles and the whole draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the State of Israel and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic on the supply of Equipment and Defence Services".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Discussion and vote uniformly on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the State of Israel and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic on the supply of Equipment and Defence Services". The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure. In other words, those who object to the ratification of this agreement may take the floor. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u26	The House therefore agreed. I would remind you that in the debate in the Standing Committee the parties' positions were as follows: New Democracy in favour, SYRIZA reservations, Change Movement in favour, Communist Party in Greece against, Greek Solution in favour, Mer25 against. I will give the rapporteur the floor first on the part of SYRIZA, Mrs Olympia Telloridou, for five minutes. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the development, exercise and implementation of our country's foreign policy must have as a strategic aim the service of our national interests and the upgrading of our geopolitical role, as is always determined by the dynamics of geopolitical developments in Europe, the Balkans and the wider South-East Mediterranean region. In order to be able to serve this strategic objective, active and multidimensional foreign policy is required in a highly critical environment, taking international initiatives, building bilateral, tripartite and multilateral relations with the countries of the region, strengthening our defence adequacy, resulting from national understanding and making our country a country a factor of stabilisation, peace and defence of international law, because that is also in the interests of the country. So the agreement we are debating today started in the context of our country's cooperation with Israel for supplies of equipment and defence services and it was made in the context of the reciprocity and mutual benefit of the two countries, as strengthening our defence capacity and upgrading operationally the Armed Forces and know-how and material resources is very important in defending our sovereign rights. But what we need to stress today is that, beyond the defence sector, we have sought to upgrade this role to deepen ourselves in other areas, such as, for example, the '3+1' cooperation and the EastMed pipeline that contributes, we believe, decisively upgrade our country's position. The evolution of things today in the wider region, as it is shaped by the launch of the annexation of the West Bank, today throws its shadow into this debate. The possible annexation of the West Bank territories will create rapid developments in the region, increase tension and create multiple diplomatic and political consequences in South-East Europe by creating destabilising conditions. Our country must always be a country of peace, stability and cooperation, and that is what we sought to do as long as we were in the government. That is why we believe that the Greek Government must commit itself today to supporting the legitimate demands of the Palestinian people and to go hand in hand with the majority of the countries of the European Union opposing the annexation. We believe - and we believe that over time - that there must be a fair and sustainable solution to the Palestinian question on the basis of international law under the auspices of the UN for the existence of two states living and co-existing in peace and security at the 1967 borders and with the capital of the Palestinian state in East Jerusalem. Our country has chosen to be committed to the value of dialogue and cooperation between the peoples of the region and has proved historically and over time that it is absolutely consistent with this choice. That is why we cannot under any circumstances make any reductions from international law, because these discounts, if they are made on matters which concern the South-East Mediterranean, we will find them before us when our turn comes to defend our own national rights. We therefore believe that the country should continue its sincere and reliable relations with Israel, at the same time continuing its relations of friendship and cooperation with Palestine and claim through the defence of international law to secure the conditions of peace in our region, because the faithful implementation of this rule is, for us, the greatest negotiating weapon and advantage, in order to defend our own rights against Turkey's reform. That is why we must sincerely, without hesitation and without weakness, propose this political principle. Indeed, this agreement is important. However, it is at a time when there are issues which create problems for destabilisation. That is why, with a sense of responsibility, we believe that this agreement, particularly now that comes to the Greek Parliament under the present circumstances, with unilateral actions which we cannot accept, is an agreement that is contrary to international law and I mean the annexation of the territories of the West Bank. We therefore join with all those forces in the European Union that seek to stabilise the region. In the present circumstances, therefore, we are saying 'the present' and we are voting 'the present'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u28	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Papastassis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u29	The Government today brings a ratification, an agreement between the Ministry of Defence of Israel and the Ministry of National Defence of Greece. Its object is to provide defence equipment and services. It is a political-military agreement that marks its size, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, deepening bilateral strategic cooperation, focusing on defence and energy with the State of Israel. In other words, with a state that has been in possession for fifty-three years on the Palestinian territories, it is imprisoning and murdering even young children, who are preparing with the backs of the United States of America to attach the occupied Palestinian land to even UN resolutions. Finally, it has weapons permanently directed at countries in the Middle East and beyond, threatening to drag the entire region more deeply into chaos and war. According to the Minister of National Defence, the government chooses by means of today's ratification to put the framework in place to follow other agreements, more specific, which cannot wait any longer. We say the government has a great deal of nerve. It goes about the strategic alliance with the State of Israel, it shows this country - not even much - as a guardian of international law. We wonder, is it not the country itself, based on the American cutting of the so-called 'agreement of the century', that is, is it not illegally preparing to implement Jerusalem's annexation as an indivisible Israeli capital, the annexation of the Jordan Valley, which is the heart of 30% of the West Bank, and of the areas north of the Dead Sea, or the maintenance of the Israeli settlements and thousands of settlers, who are occupying forces in the Palestinian territories? Of course, we do not reassure ourselves about the tactics of the alleged freezing of this process after the international outcry. It is a standby tactic, creating more favourable conditions for its implementation. Recently, the successful visit by the Prime Minister to Israel was made. The monopolies in the two countries celebrated. Their profitable cooperation seems to extend to new areas too. The Prime Minister has mentioned the further strengthening of defence cooperation, which is constantly being upgraded by the frequent joint exercises, as he said, to address the challenges that undermine stability and security in our region. The Greek people and the people of the region know very well that the business that your agreements are doing is running along with the military preparation. They're inextricably tied to violence, war, uprooting. That is exactly what today's agreement is compiling. You are proclaiming, ladies and gentlemen of the government, recognizing the deceptive argument that cooperation with Israel is an obstacle to Turkey's aggression and to its doubts over the sovereign rights of Greece and Cyprus. Aren't you saying the same thing about the role of NATO, the European Union and the United States? Who are you kidding? Yesterday, yesterday, the Turkish research vessels "organize" the EEZ of Cyprus. Their war aircraft even violate Greek national airspace. You are advertising tripartite and multilateral cooperation in the region. You hide, however, that it is the mold for an enlarged consideration of energy wealth. You hide that they serve the American interests and the interests of these urban classes here. None of this has anything to do with ensuring peace. Intensified competition. Proof is that progressive Turkey and Israel form re-approach conditions. On the other hand, in the previous debate in the parliamentary committee, SYRIZA submitted a request to postpone the debate. He said he's voting against the deal. This agreement may have been drawn up by himself, but it is being voted against, not for its content but for the political message it can send. So you see, on the first day of the start of the annexation of Palestinian territories. This is a takeoff of SYRIZA's hypocrisy. It doesn't bother him that it's a deal with a killer state. It outlines the fact that as a government it has constantly upgraded relations between Greece and Israel. In conclusion, a unanimous decision of the Greek Parliament recognising the Palestinian State was taken on 22 December 2015. No Greek government has implemented this unanimous decision, not because they have dared to weigh on geopolitical developments, as some people have said, in wanting to wash them out in the eyes of the people. They didn't do it because they don't want it. Because this requires the dangerous upgrading of relations with the occupied state of Israel. Today, the New Democracy Government, as before the SYRIZA Government, dares not touch on anything that runs counter to Israeli funds, with which it sets bridges for business. The unleashing of the murderous policy of Israel by the Government of New Democracy following the policy of the previous governments has nothing to do with the interests of the Greek people. It has nothing to do with the interests of other peoples in the region, with their willingness to live in peace, to develop relations of friendship, cooperation and mutual benefit. After that, it goes without saying that we are voting against the ratification of the agreement under discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u30	The Vice-President of Parliament and special speaker of Mera25, Sophia Sakorafa, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the ratification of a defence agreement between Greece and Israel. This is also the result of a shift in the last few years in Greek foreign policy, a shift that means historical overturn and also unprecedented for our country, contempt for the principles of international law. This agreement, as has been said, has been negotiated by the previous SYRIZA Government and has clearly been signed before the present Government takes over. I'm starting with a position of principle. We all have an obligation to support every move to strengthen our country in its defence capacity. The need is real, because we are faced with time-consuming doubts of our sovereign rights. And this is true regardless of the fact that our morbid political system has used this need in the past, I would say. Anyway, let's move on. Ladies and gentlemen, no good cause can justify a bad instrument. Unfortunately, this agreement is a bad instrument not consecrated by the intended good purpose, namely the strengthening of the country's defence. It is crucial to see what the real facts are and with which state we are concluding such an agreement. Israel is a state that implements a hard apartheid policy against a fifth of its population. It is illegally occupied territories of Palestine and is preparing, in fact, to attach them. It's a state that works without a constitution. Since his recommendation, the principle remains that religious law, Tora, cannot be subordinated or restricted by a constitution. After all, Israel's political leadership over time did not want to accept constitutional limits in its exercise of power. With the domination of the religious element, the opposite political view is classified from the outset, but also forever, on the margin, as a sin. It is not the subject of discussion or dialogue and it is not a process of political composition, that is, there is no function of democracy. It is also a feature: in front of Sharia we all have easy analyses and accusations, but we want to ignore religion in Israel. But that's not all. Religion in Israel also has purely racial function, since it is only the Jewish nation that is the ruler of the sovereign religion. Israel has a completely lacking legislative framework for the recognition of even basic rights, even for the Jews themselves, beyond the regime of uncovered discrimination against the rest of its population, namely the Arabs, whether Muslims or Christians. We do not need to say much about the flagrant illegal internal expansion at the expense of the Palestinian territories and the state policy of settlements. We often hear of Palestinian terrorists, while the day-to-day indiscriminate terrorism is systematically silenced in the occupied by the Israeli army and settlers. Israel exercises a systematic state policy with full contempt for international law, such as land confiscation, excessive use of state and military violence, vast arrests, imprisonment, even torture, restrictions on freedom of speech and the media. It applies a universal system of discrimination on all rights based on nationality and citizenship. So with this state, we want to conclude a defensive and armament agreement. With the state that has nuclear weapons, but does not accept any control over them, which uses phosphorus bombs against civilians. A state that, for very specific reasons, has not even set its borders. In the end, do we really have a conscience about what state we're talking about? Why, especially for Israel, are we overlooking the minimum international and European achievements? This selective and inconsistent attitude exposes us all. Here they have no simple approaches to friends and enemies in foreign policy, nor is the convenience of pseudo-semitism about anti-Semitism that wants to hide a harsh reality, which has an abomination and a victim. Here I want to be, and we must be quite clear: we are not tolerated by any Holocaust negligents and we always condemn racism, that is, we condemn even the one of Israel. Ladies and gentlemen, a foreign policy without principles is doomed to failure. Greece has chosen to act on the basis of international law and is therefore supposed to operate over time in its external relations. And yet, Israel is causing the international community, violating international law, war law and international human rights law. Therefore, all states, namely Greece, have an obligation to develop national and international activities until the occupation state, namely Israel, has to respect international law, and especially the bitter experience of the illegal occupation in Cyprus. Does anyone really think that this agreement is going in that direction? It is not even enough to expect our alliance with Israel to protect our sovereign rights. Historical experience has shown us that such approaches have given us nothing substantial at critical times. And I'm not just talking about Cyprus. In any case and beyond that, it is necessary to bring back a crucial issue. Through our alliances and defence agreements we must ensure that the respective industries are strengthened in our country. This should be a necessary component of each design in relation to armaments programmes. The agreement we are discussing does not ensure that Greek industries are involved. I wonder if this is just another mistake, but I'm afraid not. The Greek governments, in addition to the degradation of privatizations, follow a series of options for unauthorised depreciation of the industrial infrastructure of the country and, in particular, in critical areas. Apart from the defence industry, ELVO, EAS, PYRKAL, I shall mention, for example, the shipyards and LARCO. And unfortunately, it's not the only cases. In the debate in the committee, ladies and gentlemen, I also referred to the more specific provisions of the agreement. It is a contract that is essentially heterogeneous. In conclusion, I repeat that it is our complete opposition to signing such an agreement with the State of Israel and we are obviously voting against it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Sakorafa. From the opposition parties, the parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis and Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou from SYRIZA has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u33	What about us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u34	Not provided. But if you want, I won't deny you your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u35	Why not, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u36	Or one or the other, Mr President. We will either apply the Rules of Procedure as it stands and talk to those who object or we will have a general debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u37	Yes, Rule 108 does not provide, but in general, the parliamentary representative, okay... Take the floor now, Mr Palhei, and I'll be reassigned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, nothing has happened, nothing will happen unless you give us the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u39	Well, look, the parliamentary representative in general can intervene in any procedure. This is a general assumption. Now, there is Article 108 here, which states that the rapporteurs and the special speakers of the parties expressing reservations or objections, as well as their parliamentary representatives, have the right to intervene. Now, Mr Pafile, you have the floor and we will then consider it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u40	We have no objection in general to changing the Rules of Procedure and to having a normal debate, as in the other bills. Since it doesn't change...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u41	Here, you have the floor. Let's not ruin it here, we'll find it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u42	Yes, sir. We are discussing a Greek-Israeli agreement, which is another part of the foreign policy puzzle that follows all the parties that support it, but which move on to the American-American arc. We directly say that it is an agreement - a mark in the country's foreign policy. What do you think? To answer your arguments. Firstly, it is a common agreement like the ones made with all the states. Is that so? Is Israel the same as all states? Not that everything else is fine. First question. And secondly, that it serves the interests of the country, its defence, but it is a distortion of reality itself. You are all consciously trying to eradicate from the conscience and the Greek people all these years that they have struggled, which has targeted - and rightly pointed out - Israel's policy. And here, of course, SYRIZA has made her the great offer - not that the rest of them - who made relations with Israel a top point, as well as relations with the United States, trying to devour - but will not succeed - the anti-imperialist feelings of the people. Works and days of the State of Israel! A phosphite said "But is he a state - a murderer Israel?" Someone told the committee. It's inhabitant power, yes or no? Does he own much of the Palestinian territories, yes or no? It's a dominance force. Is Turkey a tenant power? It is because it owns the northern part of Cyprus and a part of Iraq. There they are, he says, walnuts and raining and here they are figs and they don't rain. Does she murder all these years women and young children? Monsters and signs have been made! He has thousands of political prisoners, yes or no? Has he illegally excluded the Gaza Strip? Has he bombed civilian population? Has Phosphorus bombs been fired, banned by International Law? Nobody's talking! And now you are talking about justice and a state that will help both the defence and the policy of our country! We're talking about a state - literally murderer! Does he own Syrian land, the highlands of Golan? Is she bombing Syria? What right? Is it a murderer state or not? It is a spearhead of American imperialism and threatens Iran too! And since you're also speaking to SYRIZA and the rest of us about having equal relations and about being a peaceful country, why have you accepted high school on several occasions also in the government of SYRIZA - I don't know now and I can't say with evidence - which were Americans, Israelis and Greeks and which were performed in northern Greece with a simulation of Iran? Is it true, yes or no? Let one go out and disprove it. What do we in Iran have to do to train airmen and give our territory to attack Iran? With what pretext will the nuclear power do? Well, isn't there a shame? Israel has nuclear weapons? It does. Does anyone say no? Does she have international control over all these years? Oh, no. Why doesn't anyone speak and speak only about the other countries? Why has no Greek government ever taken such a position and any other Greek party except the JRC? And in order not to blame her, I have already heard Mrs Sakorafa from Mera25. You're talking about international law. Such hypocrisy? But it's unbelievable! Are you going to drive us all crazy? Israel has violated all UN decisions. It doesn't apply anything! Not even one! And it has not violated them once with the general decision to return the territory to the levels of 1967 and much more, such as the recognition of Palestine, the Palestinian state, which is the capital of East Jerusalem. What are these? What international legality are you talking about? We know what international law means. It's a question of interrelation of powers. It was another association of forces when these decisions were made both for the Palestinian and for the Cyprus issue, to remind you. But Israel, which you consider to be a credible ally and say it will help us, has violated even these decisions as they have shaped since the overthrow of the correlation of forces, and has written all the UN resolutions in its old shoes! And you come here and you advertise it like a philanthropic country! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I will finish. Who, then, does this agreement benefit? It is part of the wider American-Russian projects in the region. You've made a choice with all the governments, and the choice is with the killers, with those who intervene, with those who bomb, with those who send to poverty and the misery of peoples all over and have blown the area down! Today it was announced that Americans are building a new base in Syria! Where and where? Why don't you come out and denounce them, since you're supporting international law? Did the Syrian government authorize them? Oh, no. There's too much more to go on. Yes, but, he says, this cooperation will curb Turkish aggression. You're openly making fun of the Greek people! Is that an idea of the JRC? Oh, no. Let's see the reality. What happened to EastMed when he was announced, Greece - Israel - Cyprus? The Turks signed the false agreement with Libya next day. Did aggression be halted? On the contrary. Under the pretext of doing this, they made this illegal - as you say - energy. The EEZ of Israel - Cyprus was delimited to protect the sovereignty of Cyprus. Isn't that right? That is what you were all saying and what the Cypriot government said. What happened? YAVUZ is there doing drilling. What defense? Has Israel been defended and all your allies, French, English, Portuguese, which says "Serbians, Bulgarians, Romanians"? No, the opposite. YAVUZ remains and does not leave. So what's the situation? There's a lot of bazaars going on in the area. The bazaars are not about the peoples, they are about the big economic interests, the multinationals, the capitalists, the imperialists. And after you say that, anyway, we voted for the recognition of the Palestinian state in Parliament - the first question to SYRIZA - why did the government not come out to make recognition and - second question in the New Democracy - why not? So with the officer and the ranger, he can't do it. And rightfully and unfairness can't be. You'll be one. And you're wrong, all the governments. Did the Prime Minister of the country go? Why didn't it go to the Palestinian authority, after we've recognized it from the House? Why don't the Americans "do" him? No, it's an option. It is a choice to support this aggressive policy. We are voting against this agreement. And know that relations between Greece and Israel, as you have them, do not have the consent of the Greek people. I'm not just talking about communists, KIC fans. The vast majority of the Greek people are considered a murderer state and this is also expressed by the mobilisations and will be expressed later. We say that these relationships are turning against the people as a whole and not just with the agreement, that the situation is getting complicated and getting worse. And we would like to remind you of the historical experience that in such times alliances are temporary. They're changing camps. Turkey once had a strategic agreement with Syria. Now it's backwards. Israel today that you say will protect us, discusses with Turkey about joint exploitation and large agreements. The French companies and all the others, your alliances, which are now supposed to have found the French imperialism that will support us, at the same time negotiate with Turkish companies and with the Turkish state. That's the situation. That is why we call on the Greek people to be constantly vigilant and vigilant. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u43	I should like to invite the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr. Xinoyannakopoulos. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Our rapporteur, Mrs Tyloridou, has clearly developed our position on this agreement. I would like to make a few points. The government of SYRIZA has developed a multidimensional foreign policy that had three objectives and three objectives: the first was to promote peace, cooperation and stability in our region, a geopolitical area with particular risks and very great challenges. The second objective has always been respect for and safeguarding the application of international law, which is a key asset in our country's foreign policy. And of course, the third objective of this multidimensional foreign policy and the promotion of multilateral agreements and partnerships is and must always be stable for our country to upgrade our international role and position and, of course, to serve our sovereign rights and interests. Our position, as our rapporteur has said, is clear, with full respect for the UN decisions on two states which, through a solution that must be achieved, just and viable, will be able to live in peace and security at the 1967 borders and with the capital of the Palestinian state in East Jerusalem. When SYRIZA and then Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras had gone to Jerusalem and Israel and had discussions with the Israeli Government, placing the dimension of our positions, as regards the rights of the Palestinian people and the need to respect the rights and decisions of the United Nations. And that, Minister, is something we have not heard from Prime Minister Mitsotakis. We did not hear him make any remarks, even though he went on the eve of the time limit, namely on 1 July, when the Government of Israel has decided to activate the decision on the annexation of the Palestinian territories. We therefore believe that the Greek Government should be drawn up with the other European governments and political forces, which clearly raise the question of respect for the decisions of the United Nations and international law, because, as our rapporteur has said, this is also one of our main tasks. However, Minister, I would like to point out something else. At the moment in Israel there are strong progressive and democratic forces fighting to cancel this decision to annex the Palestinian territories. And here I would like to mention attributes the initiative that we have taken and the fresh letter that we have signed up to a number of members of these progressive bodies, but also personalities of Israel, such as the former President of the Knesset, the Israeli Parliament, the former Advocate-General and various other figures, and the SYRIZA Members, as well as colleagues from other opposition parties, and many - I think more than a thousand - MPs from other European countries and other European Parliaments, just to cancel this decision to annex the Israeli Government. Therefore, there is the dynamic of these forces and within Israel. That is why our position is clear. Such a decision by the Israeli Government operates destabilisingly as a whole for the region. That is why, as our rapporteur has said, we will vote 'at present' and call, Minister, on you, but above all on the Prime Minister to take a clear position on respect for the decisions of the United Nations and international law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u45	And we thank you, Mrs. Xenogiannakopoulou. Ladies and gentlemen, the procedure will be closed by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u47	Mr Loverdos, as I have personally explained to my colleague from New Democracy, I have indeed sought the Minutes of the Conference of Presidents on 18 June 2020, where the matter was discussed. This was once done on the occasion of a convention which Mr Kumoucasos defended. The committee has been told and decided to request an enlarged debate. So it happened once after that. The Conference of Presidents discussed this matter and remains in the application of Rule 108. That is why the parliamentary representatives are not given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, may I speak on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u49	Here, Mr Loverdos, you have the floor, as this is a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much. Mr President, you are absolutely right, it is what you say. That is what the Rules of Procedure say and that is the decision of the Conference of Presidents. But in the previous period of the House there has been a practice which, because the Bureau and then, today, it was lenient enough, we said not to repeat it, because on the basis of this practice, the Bureau has become diligent. And I can explain to you, Mr President, what we have done. We had reservations in committee to take the floor in plenary. However, since the Bureau has been diligent since the previous period, and this courtesy has continued, we have stopped this practice, since we could speak in plenary and say two words. Both my colleague and my colleague, Mrs Xeno-Giannakopoulos, and Mr Pafilis, have raised serious issues. It is therefore a problem for the parliamentary representatives not to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, I would also like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u52	I understand, Mr President, that you are right, that is what the Rules of Procedure say. But there is always parliamentary practice, which interprets and adapts the Rules of Procedure. If colleagues insist that we do not talk, we have no problem, we will not be dead to talk. But it is not right for the equality of arms two parties to have been expressed by parliamentary representatives, in addition to the rapporteurs, and we should not be speaking. In any case, however, I can tell you that this letter is and will be adapted. What can I do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u54	Mr Buquoir, you have the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, I would just like to add that with the participation of the Parliamentary Representatives of the other parties, the debate did not move within the content of this transnational agreement that we are currently in existence, but wider issues were raised and it would be good to give the parliamentary representatives of the other parties the floor as part of a broad interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, which has happened in the past, as the previous colleague explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u57	Here you go, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u58	The Rules of Procedure, as they were on these matters, did not happen at random. Why would you say? After you've been covered, if you're all in agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u59	Did you talk about the deal?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u60	I say that this is what the Rules of Procedure says, and I did not say that I agree with the Rules of Procedure. There's a government that's gonna answer. Otherwise - and this has happened once, apart from the trick that various parties have had and said that they have had reservations and then voted for them, to speak in plenary, but these are not serious things in my opinion - we could at the outset raise the issue and see what will happen if we agree with one or the other. And that was not the case once with the refugee and it was not the case. Before that trick was done. So either we stick to the Rules of Procedure or we should start by making an agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u61	So we'll do tricks, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u62	You do tricks, I have no problem. And I tell you to change the Rules of Procedure, because I agree that there should be a general debate. We have no problem, nor are we afraid of confrontation, otherwise.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u63	Mr Pafile, because you are taking part in the Conference of Presidents, while others are not participating, I will tell you that I cannot change the Rules of Procedure or break the Rules of Procedure. Indeed, because this is also a matter of some sort, it was simply a matter of the fact that this Convention on Migration was concluded and, in any case, it was with the Bureau's responsibility, and Parliamentary representatives were given the floor, regardless of whether they had expressed or had not objected to the agreement. And because I am bound by the decisions of the Conference of Presidents, that is why we are closing this issue. If there are more general issues, the Minister, who has the floor to answer. Because otherwise we will open up a large and generalized cycle, which we do not know and when it can be closed. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, I also have an objection, since today the right to speak is given only to those who object. To come here to the representatives of the parties expressing objections and to the essential debate on the agreement to raise a large number of transnational political issues, without entering into the substance of the agreement, which is a purely defence agreement, in order to be heard, to obtain political impressions, etc. I think it is a distortion of the parliamentary procedure. This is where the objections to the agreement only didn't speak. Even with a view to respecting the decisions of the UN and the International Law, objections were heard, but there was no possibility in any other party for a representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u65	Minister, don't dictate us and what we'll say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u66	The Rules of Procedure say that we will talk about the agreement and not generally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u67	I shall avoid this practice, as I have done in the debate in committee, from the 'obvious' day, which has been used as a pretext for the opposition to this agreement in substance, because of the expressed announcement by the Prime Minister of Israel of the annexation of Palestinian territories to Israel, and that is why it has been called for the debate to be postponed, not to proceed with ratification of the agreement, etc. We come today on 7 July, where nothing has been attached so far, there is simply this announcement. We know that the internal political situation in Israel has to do with a co-operation government and, if necessary, with this cooperation government, there are other views. Perhaps that is the reason why this assumption of annexation has not yet come forward. But that is not a matter of today's debate. We are coming to discuss an agreement between the State of Israel and the Hellenic Republic in the field of defence cooperation and nothing more. The parties who object to this agreement are poorly brought to the attention of the parties and are diverting the debate on the Palestinian question to an all-material debate on the Palestinian question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u68	Why, Minister? Are you going to dictate to us what we're going to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u69	Why are you interrupting me, Mr. Paphie? You've done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u70	What's that now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Paphie, you had the comfort for up to nine minutes. Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u72	They won't dictate us what we're going to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u73	No one interrupted you. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u74	I also consider it paradoxical that the party which, as a government, had signed in 2016 this agreement - and rightly, in my view, from an international political point of view - should come today and urge the House not to ratify it because of the situation in the Palestinian and Israeli Prime Minister's announcements, etc., invoking international law. At least that's paradoxical! The country's effort is to find and intensify its international alliances to defend its own national interests and its own role in geopolitical matters, the very fluid and very complex at this time. This is also the effort of the government, which has, for a year now, intensified the pace of these strategic alliances, especially at the level of bilateral contacts. There is the European Union, there is NATO, okay, but there are bilateral contacts. And there is a splendid field of glory to intensify strategic alliances for the benefit of, among other things, Greece. Bilateral is the benefit, mutual benefit. However, Greece will benefit from this agreement with Israel. In the committee - and I will not go far enough, Mr President, because I think that it has also been debated in committee - at least for us, the reasons why the ratification of this agreement by this House is a good thing have been explained. Firstly, the agreement reflects the very good relations between the two countries on a bilateral level. I would remind you that until now allied relations with Israel have been extended to the field of exercises between the Armed Forces of the two countries. Last, at a more intensive rate, there has also been a more specific move, a time-share on our part, two "Non-Related Vehicles", the UAVs, the Heron type, with Israel. It is the first, I would say, concrete move in terms of the acquisition of defence material with Israel. A few things beyond that, though. The agreement on the EastMed pipeline has recently been signed. There I would say that it has opened a path of common geopolitical interests, especially in the field of the exploitation of energy deposits in the Eastern Mediterranean. This undoubtedly also has an impact on the area of defence cooperation. Completely recently, at the beginning of July, we had the journey of the Prime Minister and the Government Mission in Israel. There, in fact, we have confirmed the great potential for cooperation in the field of defence and security, and I would say that we have given assurances that contacts with Israeli companies will be intensified in the area of defence production, which are interested in creating partnerships, synergies, even in terms of co-production, in Greece, in cooperation with Greek defence industry companies - here is the prospect - in a lot of defence material. If there were no restrictions in relation to the coronary, the first trip would have begun, the first visits by Israeli officials, the officials of the companies. I take the view that next month we will have a great deal of mobility and concrete proposals at the table. And there is the alarming difference that this agreement, which we are called upon to ratify today, is to confirm at institutional level. While there have once been only announcements, both military exercise and declarations of intent, now there are concrete plans at the table, plans to intensify cooperation in the field of defence and security and especially in the defence industry. This agreement, therefore, essentially sets out the procedures and general conditions governing the supply of Greek or Israeli defence equipment and defence services when drawing up separate supply contracts, i.e. intergovernmental contracts, G2G. The parties are the two defence ministries of the two countries. And, in fact, the framework that is going to be specific is to be specified, specified by agreements that are likely to start running and evolving from the next month. It is in line with the applicable procurement legislation. Furthermore, it is considered beneficial for our country because, as I have said, it sets the general framework for the conclusion of future G2G relationships and provides the possibility of business cooperation and co-production of defence material, through the participation of one party in the production process taking place in the territory of the other. Here there is an expression of interest, as I told you, from Israelis to come and work with Greek companies, of course, with the obvious benefit for both countries, but also for the domestic economy. I have always said that a lever of growth, very important, of the domestic economy, is also the development of the domestic defence industry. A country that has these Armed Forces of this quality, this preparedness, such as Greece, must be supported in its Armed Forces and by a very active defence industry. And the possibility of developing and intensifying partnerships with Israel, I think, can give a great boost to the domestic defence industry and thus also to the domestic economy in difficult times, as you all know. It is also beneficial because it explicitly prohibits the conclusion of compensatory contracts. It is beneficial because it provides for the provision of state-of-the-art quality through compliance with the same control procedures for all aspects relating to the supply of defence equipment by the seller, as such a provision relates to his own Armed Forces, which, of course, is guaranteed by the seller, in terms of quality assurance and procedure, is benefiting from a buyer. It is beneficial because it establishes the possibility to re-establish an agreement setting new schedules in the event of a late fulfilment, ultimately exempting the parties from any criminal clauses. Those who have dealt with armaments know how much, I would say, undermining, across the framework of cooperation, this is the imposition of criminal clauses in the event of a delay in the timetable for the performance of a contract. In the past, we've lived it, and we've paid it, I'd say. The Armed Forces, that is, have paid for it in agreements concluded and armaments defence systems that were to be received. There is an explicit agreement here that it can, in fact, change this timetable and not have this delay of bureaucratic nature, and in particular the poisoning of this relationship by means of criminal clauses. It shall also ensure the continued support provided by the seller to the buyer for all defensive equipment, especially during stress or crisis periods, by mutual agreement between the parties. In addition, producers of defence material or services as regards intellectual property rights which they enjoy are protected, thereby preventing their illegal use by third parties. It is therefore a well-processed agreement, I would say, which sets a general framework, which will be put into effect at the next stage intensification of the strategic relationship, when we have specific contacts and development of synergies and partnerships between Israeli and Greek companies. That's all. There's nothing else. We are putting the framework in place, with this agreement that I recall had been concluded in November 2016 - and good - in order for it to function in practice, to be implemented in practice, not at the level of announcements but at the level of concrete actions, of a specific activity at the door, this defence cooperation. I think that Greece could only benefit from this development. As I mentioned to you, the recent journey by the Prime Minister and the government mission to Israel, I would say that it has made it clear that a series of contacts and an expression of interest and that of Greek Defence Industry on terms, however, synergy. I think that we all understand that the Greek defence industry is in need of such proposals for cooperation, synergies and in terms of co-production of defence material in Greece, with what this implies for the domestic economy. So let us stay in this very narrow context, as described by the agreement itself. Let us not divert ourselves into great transnational political debates that undoubtedly have some interest. I do not doubt that there is the Palestinian problem, but that is not the subject of the debate today. The positions of Greece, which are also the positions of the European Union, are very clear. And we are not coming today to discuss them or through this case to imply that we are leaving them. Not at all. However, one issue, the other one. I therefore call on the House, as we said in the debate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence a week ago, to ratify this agreement, because it is simply nationally beneficial. Nothing less, nothing more. In fact, as I have said, we will be able to see this with specific activity, which will start to take place at an intensive rate very soon. We are no longer talking, as I have said, about the time of announcements and rhetoric with fine words and promises of eternal cooperation, not to say love. We are talking about a specific, mutually beneficial case, which, as I have said, is at the door. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support and ratify the agreement in order to institutionalise the framework within which the activity, as I said, will take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of uniformity, the articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the State of Israel and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic on the supply of Equipment and Defence Services". Their vote will be taken separately. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened in order to vote on the rapporteurs and the special speakers, who must remain for the signature of the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u77	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u78	Consequently, following the conclusion of the vote with the electronic system, the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Undertaking of the Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the State of Israel and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic on the supply of Equipment and Defence Services’ was accepted by a majority of the same majority as in principle, the articles and all of them and have as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u80	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-07-S1-commons.u81	With the consent of the House at 13.06 hours the meeting for tomorrow, Wednesday, July 8, 2020 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work, legislative work: only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: "Public outdoor meetings and other provisions".
