ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's approval of 14-9-2020, its minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of its PR Sessions of Monday, 14 September 2020, with regard to the adoption of the draft law as a whole: of 10.8.2020 Act of Legislative Area ‘Urgent arrangements to address the emergency needs of the National Health System, to protect against the dispersion of CIVID -19, to support the labour market and facilitate the education process’ (A'157) and (b) of 22.8.20 Act of Legislative Area ‘Extreme measures to strengthen urban transport, to supply personal protective equipment and to recruit cleaners of school units, to support tourist enterprises and the labour market and to strengthen the General Secretariat for Civil Protection in order to address the consequences of the pandemics of CVID -19 other CVID -19 incidents of 8 May 2020, as well as well as to support for the other CVID floods of the other CVID -19 incidents of 8.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the debate today's topical and urgent debate, I will first refer myself to the World Democracy Day: 15 September has been established as the Republic's International Day of Celebration, at the initiative of the Interparliamentary Union from 1997 to 2007. And in 2007 it was adopted by the UN General Assembly. Today's celebration aims to highlight democratic values, namely freedom and respect, diversity, equality, dignity, fearless will and expression of justice, collective interest and cooperation. Democracy is the city that power stems from the people, is exercised by the people and serves the interests of the people. In our country the World Democracy Day has been celebrated since 2008, with a decision of the Ministry of Education. Already from ancient Athens to modern times it is democracy the most participatory city that humanity has ever known. Democracy was born twenty-five centuries ago in this small corner of the earth and etymologically means that the municipality holds, that is, that the people rule. Pericles, during the golden century, established the Athenian democracy, so that Thucidis in Epitafios describes that "It is done because of democracy, and I am working under the first man's authority", that is, he introduced the concept of the first man in democracy, something similar to the institution of the Prime Minister today. Pericles also "explained" that our Constitution favours the many and not the few. That is why it is called democracy. But what is democracy? In fact, it is about direct and indirect democracy. Direct democracy, known as 'clean democracy', is a type of democracy and theory of civil rights, where power is based on the assembly of all the citizens participating in it. Representative or indirect democracy is exercised by a group of people, usually selected through elections to show representatives. Let us not forget that former President of the United States Barack Obama, during his official visit to our country, praised Athenian democracy in the following words: "The state, the power, the right to rule comes from the municipality, people. The idea that we are citizens, not servants, but managers of our society, the concept of citizenship which has rights and responsibilities, faith in equality before the law, not only for a few, but for many, not only for the majority but also for the minority, open democratic societies can offer more prosperity. When people are free to think and share ideas, and to create, it is when innovation is released and economies really blossom." Greece has a duty to safeguard the values of democracy and to remind everyone of the historic path of democratic institutions. The democratic city is flexible and allows negotiation and free exchange of views and, as Paul Bakoyannis said, "in democracy there are no dead ends". I hope that we will continue to honour in practice the democratic city, the heritage of our ancestors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, Mr Koutnatzis, informs the House that the timely questions to be discussed are as follows: Question No 1038/14-9-2020 will be answered by the Minister of Justice, Mr Constantine Tsiara. Questions Nos 1021/8-9-2020 and 1032/14-9-2020 will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Mavroudi (Maki) Vorides. Questions Nos 1022/10-9-2020 and 1034/14-9-2020 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Interior, Theodoros Livano. The question, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure, which is addressed to the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Staikoura, will not be answered on grounds of lack of competence. It will also not be answered because of lack of competence, Question No 1029/14-9-2020, addressed to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Panagiotis Theodorikos. We shall now proceed to the debate on the first topical and urgent question. It is the third under number 1038/14-9-2020 of the second-round question of the Congress of the Radical Left, Mr. Elisabeth (Betty) Scooter to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "Supply of the Housekeeper and the Katerini Land Office". Mrs. Skoufa, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u4	Minister, I honestly would not have asked today's timely question if the situation in relation to obtaining property rights had not reached the end of the day, at least for the Pierre Prefecture. When I say "unprocessed", I mean that many of my fellow citizens, the city's Bar Association itself, with the Board. They are constantly complaining about the enormous delay in the procedures for the transfer of real estate and contracts, procedures being carried out in the Mortgage and in the Land Office of the city. Let me say that although we are not lawyers or judges, we are actually forced to discuss a legal issue and let me tell you, as Minister of Justice, that you are forced to ensure the security of property transactions. So I want you to tell us - and the people of Pierre listen to you - how is it possible with this explosive subscribing that exists both in the Mortuary and much more in the Katerini Land Office, which operates with an official, to implement the announcements of the Government of New Democracy for development, for a final state, etc.Huh? Three examples I will mention. How is it possible for a businessman to wait up to two years - why is it so objectively the measurable waiting time - to register his property as a mortgage in order to get a loan from the bank? How can the farmer also wait two years to sign the act of expropriation, to get the money out of expropriation? And how is it possible for a potential buyer of a property in Pieria also to wait two years in order to guarantee him the rights to property, to build a hotel unit, to give a job to twenty - thirty people. We expect concrete answers, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u5	Minister, Mr Chiara, you have the floor to answer Mrs Skoufa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u6	Madam President, I understand that in parliamentary practice the submission and debate of the topical and urgent questions also contribute substantially to the emergence of problems, but perhaps also to the required responses that must be given by the government at a time. But, as I understand your obligation to raise an issue in your prefecture, you too need to understand some things that concern a more general reality, which has not started in the last 12 months, but comes from before. So let's go and see what they have and find ourselves in at least one - if you want - landscape or space in which we agree on certain steps that have already been taken and I think that, when they are completed, they will also respond to the problem you mentioned earlier. It is known that Article 3 of the Act of 24-12/19 of Legislative Act, which was ratified by Law 4664/20, provides that the mortgages are to be abolished and transferred to the Greek Land register. He is a body of the Ministry of Environment and Energy. This provision provides that this entire procedure will be completed within forty-eight months from the date of publication in the Official Journal of the Government, namely, essentially, it concerns Law 4512/2018, and this will, of course, take place until 17 January 2022. You realise that the particular public service you have asked about, this service of the Caerine Loan in its current form - mortgage and property office - is in operation transitionally. In fact, within a planned period of time, which essentially relates to the decision of the Greek Stock Exchange, which now has exclusive competence in this respect, we know that the mortgage office will be abolished. In fact, trying to collect the information - I will also tell you the steps we have taken - I will tell you that on the basis of the official briefing I have from the Greek Stock Exchange, and I can give you this document, the Katerini mortgage is scheduled to be abolished on 3 January 2022. Therefore, the transfer of the mortgages to the Greek Stock Exchange, at least to us, creates a limited framework for actions in which we could move towards the recruitment of permanent staff. However, I would like to assure you that we have not been inactive. It is apparent from the archives held by the Ministry in Katerina, which also operates as a transitional holding office in Katerina, that six employees are engaged in a public and private employment relationship in a total of nine organic posts. We're not talking about subsecution. I imagine you understand that. It seems too much if you see what is happening in the public sector in general. However, any reinforcement of staff is still a positive step. I recognise it and agree with you on the best service for the citizen, to whom I imagine all the services in the public sector are aimed. That is why we have specifically taken care of Katerini's Parenthood Department to join the database of the digital organisational chart of public administration and local administration, which serves the single mobility system for civil servants, so that if such requests for mobility arise, there can be the approval of staffing from other public bodies through mobility. At the same time, upon submission of an e-mail request from the mortgage guardian Katerini, in the context of the planning of public sector recruitment for the year 2021, our agency has taken further steps to approve the recruitment of two IP category staff in the administrative - financial sector. Finally, in application of the provisions of Article 82 of Law 2812/2000, there is provision for a question to be asked to the relevant Staff Board - it is also an additional possibility - in order to give an opinion on the secondment of an official or a non-office from services of the Ministry of Justice on account of the duty of the Ministry of Justice for one year to any body which is subject to the Ministry of Justice. In other words, there is indeed a reality that comes from the past. I shall return to my remarks on this. It is a problematic reality, not only in Katerini, but in all - I would say - Greece. It is, however, a transitional period during which we believe - and on the basis of a law that the previous government has passed - that we will be able to modernise the structure and functioning of the public administration with the logic of 'One stop shop', the fewer attitudes, and if you want the greatest ease and convenience of the Greek citizen in the face of procedures that we know have troubled him for many years. I'll come back to my second speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. Ms. Skoufa, you have the floor for the dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u8	Minister, I have really tabled - I am not apologising - for the timely question, because it is tragic for the citizens to wait two years. It paralyses the commercial, business, production activity. They paralyse the rights of Greek taxpayers who clearly pay taxes to at least have an effective and productive public administration. I would like to describe precisely the situation, because let me feel that the decision-making centre in Athens over time and the respective ministry cannot have an accurate picture of what is happening in the region. Let me tell you that one of the employees at the property office and the six employees you refer to in the mortgage are sharing responsibility. And I'm just explaining what I mean. I mean that of the six employees, because of their subsistence, and even though this is done informally, many people are going to the vet in order to deal with the ten cases even a day which the vet reports in his answer to Mr Velopoulos's question. So the problem starts mainly from the sub-secretory of the real estate office, for which you are not formally competent, but you are co-responsible, because you must ensure justice and security in the real estate transactions from your point of view. I should like to say that the situation is getting worse, because according to law, exactly until 2022, the mortgages are being abolished, but they have done so. In the transitional period, therefore, the two departments are responsible for two replica­tions. So, seven employees are not enough to do this job. We have gladly heard that there is a contract notice if I have understood it correctly. I would like you to give us an answer on the current timetable, namely when the notice is to come out and when the procedure is to be completed, because it is good to move on to two administrative staff, when there is no one in the mortgage office. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, in relation to the mobility process, which is clearly provided for by law and, if I am not mistaken, by a law of the previous government, officials must be encouraged to come and serve the vet or the mortgage office, once it is known that there is a huge workload. That's all I had to say. Honestly, the situation is third world. You are right that responsibilities are time-consuming. But you are the current government and you must respond and stand up to the circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Scouffa. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u10	Madam President, I am not personally used to working with a sense of responsibility to previous people. And I do so, because I think that at some point the political system through a maturity must take the necessary steps in a direction that shows its clear objectives in society. But if you look at what has happened since the beginning of 2018, that is to say when we have Law 4512 which provides for the integration of the two specific items, I would say, of services and the creation of the Greek Stock Exchange and what has been done for a year and a half, I am sure you will find out where the responsibility may lie. Because the original projection was at the beginning of 2021 to have the Greek Stock Exchange, incorporating the mortgages and the services of the Stock Exchange. Do you really know what happened until July 2019? Absolutely nothing! It was impossible for a government to be able to complete a programme which, at least, provided for two years for specific steps and for developments which, as we know very well, required time. Do you want me to tell you what I've been doing since the beginning of 2020? Every month, I repeat every month, we hold meetings with the administration of the Stock Exchange at the Ministry of Justice. Every month we describe the progress that has been made and the concrete planning that needs to be implemented, so that at the beginning of 2022 we can reach the law of the SYRIZA government. In other words, what do I want to say? Unfortunately, a transitional situation does not allow us to make choices that will in the long term be able to bring about or solve problems. I have had - and I am sorry to say this - that the previous government, since it had had a proper, confessive, political decision - I mean the integration - of the two authorities, of the services in the Greek register - had to have made the necessary programming and the necessary steps. We are forced and we are - and I tell you directly - with a great deal of trouble. Why? Because, unfortunately, next year you realise that the services have more problems. When they leave abandoned two years, it is obvious that understood is a problem and structures are beginning to deceive and in general there is an issue that is not dealt with in the way it should. Furthermore, you should be aware that all the employees of the mortgages belonging to the Federation of Judiciary officials want to be found in the Ministry of Justice services, do not want to stay in the Register. I imagine you are aware of this because it is a reality which, perhaps, we all face with a pressure in a different direction from what your question demonstrates. In addition to all this, however, I would like to tell you that we, from July to today, have given more than EUR 140,000 from the FIFG, so that there is the maintenance and more general operation of all the country's mortgage offices. We have made many different competitions in order to supply the mortgages with sanitary material, since they are the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, to have security services so that there is no issue with the issue of the accumulation of the world because of the coronary pandemic and, of course, to create the best possible safety conditions for all these services. I understand that the problems that exist in the Caterina Mortgage are really. I also understand that these problems exist throughout Greece. But it is a transitional period. We are in very close monthly co-operation with the administration of the Land register. We in this reform, the right reform, launched by the previous government, and for which we have taken absolutely no step, will complete it. That's what I want to tell you. I believe that in all these procedures and all these measures which I have told you that we have taken from the Ministry of Justice and with the possibility, by reason of mobility, of serving the Katerini Mortgage and of calling for specific administrative-economic posts, but of course also through specific councils to be seconded for one year by judicial officers, the problems that exist at headquarters and to be dealt with, but also to be met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u11	Thank you too, Minister. We continue with our second question under number 1021/8-9-2020 of the first cycle of the Deputy Kilkis of the Change Movement Mr.Georgios Frangidis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Extreme financial support measures for the Kilkis Prefecture for the period of the koroni pandemic." Mr. Francis, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in the pandemic that we are now living and its consequences, unfortunately many sectors have been affected and within them is the primary sector, especially in some crops that we have in Greece. Fifteen years ago in the production area of Polypetros, the Municipality of Paionia, Kilkis, a group of pioneers, I would say, growers started to cultivate the fresh fig of the variety "black mission" or Greek "black apostiliatika". In those years, of course, the European Union has encouraged farmers to change their crops and move on to more dynamic crops, leaving old, as the tobacco in that area was. So, by discerning the opportunity and looking for less demanding crops the producers after having investigated the fruit’s purchase and quality characteristics, they decided to abandon traditional tobacco, cotton and turn to those of figs and pomegranates. At first, they produced a few acres, about two hundred, but over the years they increased. Today there is more than a thousand acres cultivated in the area and their production exceeds a thousand tons. The coronary pandemic, unfortunately, managed to hit this efficient and profitable crop. The fall of tourist attendance led to a sub-optimal operation and a closure of many restaurants and hotels. The consumption of the product was then limited. The drop in consumption has led to very low prices that do not cover either part of the costs - to mention that today merchants take up between EUR 0,5 and 0.8 a kilo - and that many times producers do not harvest the product and are faced with the range of economic catastrophe. On the other hand, the export situation makes it difficult to compete with Turkey's figs because of the devaluation of the Turkish pound. At the same time, repayment of loans and liabilities leads producers to economic deadlock and destruction. Taking into account these, Minister, I would like to ask you whether you intend to include the producers of figs in a programme of exceptional financial aid for the period of the koruna pandemic in proportion to other agricultural products affected, on the basis of the distortion of aid and in line with the areas declared in the IACC in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Francis. Before I give the floor to Minister Voridis, I would like to say that the first question under number 1037/14-9-2020 of a second-round question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "The problem of the two-year compulsory education in the middle of Thessaloniki" will not be debated as a result of the MP being prevented. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor to answer Mr. Francis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, my point is well known. I have already dealt with two meetings we have held with the agricultural cooperative, which has a similar variety in Marcopoulou at Attica, and I have already had a communication - and I thank you for the question - with my colleague at the Government, Mr Georgantas, who also represents the Kilkis Region. There's really been a disturbance. That's true. I just wanted to point out to you that we are dealing solely with the disturbance due to the impact of the coronary, the restrictive measures to deal with the pandemic. Other commercial causes do not fall under the financial aid mechanism. So I wanted to tell you that yes, there's been a disturbance. There's still a harvest. I would like, because you said something, to encourage producers to move forward in full. I understand that the price is small, I know, but at this small price to go because it is important for the assessments we are generally doing on aid issues. We will therefore move on to that. We are watching the market very carefully. Where there has been a disturbance we have intervened and we will do the same in the fig.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Minister. Mr Fraggidis has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u16	I listened carefully, Minister. I would like to say a few things to be more specific. The cultivation of fig is a dynamic and efficient cultivation. On average, the acre gives about a thousand pounds of figs. And if it's a good period, there might be more than a thousand pounds. Its advantage, too, is that it does not have any special requirements. Its costs are mainly for workers and for the second degree for irrigation. It is not affected by insects and diseases, but by the Mediterranean fly, so there is no need for systematic intervention with herbicides, but also high lubrication as trees have no special productive improvement with its use. However, unlike the dry fig, the fresh has little storage capacity. You know that. By nature, it's sensitive. It can last two, three days. Come on, if there's any refrigerators, they can take a few more days. So those who cultivate a fresh fig must have ensured their immediate disposal. The group of producers of the figurative black mission is true that it is well organised. The growers of the variety in Macedonia, Thessaly and especially the Laws of Kilkis, Larissa, Pierreia, Thessaloniki and Kavala cooperate often with each other. However, the product is mainly sold through the supermarkets and the main export market in Thessaloniki. Before the pandemic, the fig was providing satisfactory income. Let's report that the pound was taken by dealers about 3,5 euros. Today, this has come to be sold EUR 0,5 to EUR 0.8 per kilo. In the present circumstances, it is necessary to strengthen these people who have acted as a matter of urgency for the country's primary sector, namely self-organised, developed initiatives, introduced new crops in the region, acted self-innovated and many times innovated. They didn't expect everything from the state. But now they are in a bad position themselves and their families are suffocating because of their financial obligations. You must, Minister, strengthen them immediately so that they can continue to be involved in the primary sector. Mostly, we want young people in the agricultural sector. And this area is distinguished precisely for this feature, it has young people. Greece is a rural country and its future is seriously strengthened when young people are involved in this area. In addition, I would like to say that, apart from the exceptional aid due to the coronary, there is a need for support to growers throughout Greece in order to be able to gain access to foreign markets, but also to do, where necessary, a restructuring of the old aged ones. The development of the culture of partnerships and cooperatives through education and incentives must also be strengthened. In our region, in the region of Paionia, that is, where the Polypetro area is concerned, there was a cooperative. Of course, you know very well that most have declined and been charged and do not work. The state has not helped enough in this direction. And it is difficult today to eliminate the reluctance of producers towards cooperative schemes, due to the negative experience of previous years with their wrong and problematic functioning. Finally, I would like to close and refer to how to compensate for natural disasters such as hail and ice. You know that figs to produce must be over three years old trees. It must be the three-four-year-old trees. So when there is hail or cold the trees are destroyed. The assessment of the compensation shall be made by the ELGA and compensation by the PESA. Do you know what they're indebted to? They compensate the plant. In other words, they compensate for two - three euros each plant, not the tree. The tree takes three years to produce the new tree that the farmer will plant another three years. In other words, five to six years without production for the farmer, and his allowance is two or three euros the plant and not the tree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I do not have much to add, Mr President, in the sense that I said that we are following the procedure. I said there's been a disturbance. I said we would study the question of aid. I mean, to be heard - it's very important - but to know about the interest you have shown: What do I mean when I say "study of damage"? What is it that we're watching? We are monitoring how this production has gone over the past three years. We are monitoring it both in terms of quantity and price. In this sense, we define an average. Then we gather evidence of how this production has gone and so determine the disturbance. This, as you can see, is a task that has its own requirements and also requires cooperation with producers. It is therefore important for producers to be able to provide evidence and for their own opinion to be heard in this process. Subsequently, in order to go to state aid, a request is submitted, the amount of aid linked to the disturbance is identified and justified, and we have found the amount, therefore, exactly where the disturbance has occurred, a request for approval of the aid is sent to the European Commission, there is consultation with the General Accounting Office of the State and the Ministry of Finance, and that concludes the procedure, so that the aid is raised, so that producers can declare it. We then determine the amount of area aid and therefore the producers state. I say this in order to know that it is not a political decision - as I hear from many - of the Minister, who in a magical way or in an arbitrary way comes and says that you will 'take that amount' and do so. That's not the process. It has its own technical requirements, in order for this to be weighted, justified, mainly because it requires the approval of the aid by the European Commission, so that it does not fall under the category of non-legal state aid. So I say this to know that this is the work that will be done in this direction. Now you have also raised a number of other issues. This is common in topical questions. I would like to take this opportunity to think about it at another level.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the third with the number 1032/14-9-2020 top-level question of the first cycle of the KKE MP, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Direct measures to support small and medium-sized producers in Achaia". Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you are well aware of the situation that small and medium-sized farmers in Achaia are experiencing, in fact, in desperation. Following the repeated blows by farmers, producers of potatoes, watermelon, olive oil, the line has now come for the wine grape producers, who are forced by the traders and the wine growers to sell their crops at degrading prices. For example, as we have been denounced, the price for the rodite variety varies from 15 to 20 minutes at best with an average of about 18 minutes of the euro, at a cost which, according to conservative calculations, reaches 25 minutes. Officially, according to the complaints of the rural clubs themselves in the region, the situation will become even more difficult in the next period and for the upcoming production of olive oil. Already the sale price of last year's crop is very low, while prolonged drought is expected to affect new production this year. So, with regard to you personally and to the government's statements, it is supposedly strengthening the agricultural branches affected by the pandemic, so far in Achaea it has not been visible. I am referring, for example, to farmers who are still waiting for Easter, five months now, this minimum compensation after the damage has occurred. So questions are very clear and specific: Minister, what measures, in particular, will your Ministry take to cover, under the responsibility of the State, the lost income of producers of the affected sectors - and not a simple compensation - in order to ensure, under the responsibility of the State, a price covering production costs and, of course, a survival income for producers and in wines, but also in raw materials such as the must used for the production of wine, whether through illegal Greekisation or through other routes, so that domestic production can first be channelled and at prices accessible to the people's family? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too. Mr Vorides, Minister for Rural Development, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u22	Let me start with the remark on the issue of farmers. It may have come to your attention that the measure has now come to light and that producers' declarations are therefore made. I wanted to say this here - because I hear it sometime - about the time we leave to make the statements. I'll tell you a frequent example. There was a proposal, particularly on the part of producers on the people's markets, when we gave aid of 15 million, not much of the time we are opening up in order to make statements. I had disagreed at that time because I think that time should be given to enable them to enter. So we've given 30 days. I'd like to tell you, thank God we've given these thirty days. Most statements have been made over the last four to five days. So the shortening of the time period would actually be to the detriment of the producers, and a similar phenomenon also emerged with the reinforcement of coastal fishermen, where we waited for about twelve thousand - thirteen thousand applications for aid - somewhere so many permits for coastal fishing - in the last week and the closure we had ended up having around nine and a half thousand declarations. So we were missing three - three and a half thousand fishermen, whom we want to reinforce, and who did not come to take the aid money. We gave another week of extension and the picture was differently shaped. I say this for times and sometimes for criticism not so much by the Communist Party of Greece I hear, but by SYRIZA on the subject of the years. This criticism needs a little attention. Many times, in the name of speed, we can harm producer interests. For farmers, I answered you. The aid procedure is strengthened and the aid procedure is progressing. You raised the issue of potato and watermelon. We've found a disorder in both. Perhaps by the end of the week, at most the beginning of the next week, I will speak specifically of the amounts with which the potato and water will be strengthened. In particular, with regard to watermelon, we are talking about early, not about what is still under way. We are not talking about watermelon, this current one, because this is where we have a market in progress. Well, not for that. But for the early cycle of his business, we will make announcements either by the end of the week or the beginning of the next week. Yesterday, in fact, we studied the numbers, we have come up with amounts and communications will be made. I simply mention some of the latest technical information on the aid. Olive oil is a very big conversation. I think it is not here to open it, but we will see how we deal with it. Above all, I must say - and this is important - that now olive oil is on the rise. In the past month we have seen that its prices have improved considerably and I think we can be quite optimistic about how the price of olive oil will function from now on. That is the issue of aid. As far as the issue of grapes is concerned, as you know, because we saw the disturbance in the wine market, mainly because of the closure of the focus, we did, firstly, the measure of crisis distillation and, secondly, we did the measure of the green harvest. The green harvest went 1.2 million. This is a measure that we have tried for the first time. I have to tell you that we were quite cautious about this, because we did not know how producers would react to this measure. It went to 20 million and the strengthening of crisis distillation. I must say that this was an important intervention and it has created a balance on the grape market. In Achaea we've identified price problems. It's true. Why am I saying we have created a balance? Because in a paradoxical way - which needs a little thought and further analysis of what is exactly what has happened - there is a price fluctuation in the grape in areas. For example, in areas in western Macedonia, the grape is moved at higher prices than last year's. But there are other regions - and your area is one - where we have indeed seen low prices on the grape. It is not the only one, there are other areas that have difficulty. Boeotia has a corresponding theme. Other regions, however, have no difficulty, the grape is well moved and moved at good prices. So what I can tell you at the moment about the grape is that we are watching the market closely and if we need to intervene, we will intervene. However, because the harvest is under way and prices are under way, the debate on how to behave here is premature and any statement I made would lead to a possible distortion of the market.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I will move on to procedural matters quickly. Of course, it is not so much how much time some can make their statements. The question is how timely this is and how timely the compensation goes. If we now see Easter until November when the compensation will begin, it is a very long time, Minister, for farmers, and these people have difficulty in being able to enrich and continue their productive activities. Also, of course, he's going up, he's plunged something into olive oil, but he had fallen too low, and that price still doesn't cover his cost of production. So it's what we're talking about. It is also not about compensation, but about how income is guaranteed. And the compensation - you know it very well - replace a part of the lost income. And from this point of view, and the measures you have taken to make wine grapes or what you will announce about potato and watermelon, such as distillation or green harvesting, are measures - aspirins, let me know. I don't want to blame the effort, but it's aspirin measures. Why are aspirin measures? Because we read 'the green harvest means...' and we talk about destruction of production, it's burying. We're back in the burial. And second, distillation is 60 minutes a litre if I'm not mistaken. So, in other words, imagine a number of associations - cooperatives, I say, I am not saying wine growers - which will need with this very small amount of compensation for distillation to finance new production when they owe farmers money from the previous growing season. So the main question, Mr Minister, regardless of all of this, is why the State does not intervene in determining the cost of production. That is the main question. And don't tell me that it's socialist, because I'm going to tell you a number of examples. Does the State not intervene in establishing the price of the labour force? The Brutsi - Ahchioglou Law does. Yesterday you voted for a provision where the Christmas gift will be calculated with the 534 euros. And isn't that State interference? Isn't the State interference of the shipping fuel not paying VAT? Or for the producers that you didn't guarantee them a price? They're State interventions, Minister. In fact, I would remind you that even in the past the European Union itself even established lower prices for agricultural produce in a number of products. So that is the issue, State intervention, because at the bottom of the line when you have a package of billions to make available to business groups, in essence we cannot talk about some millions which will be made available as minimum compensation for farmers and fishermen. This is a challenge, Minister. So this is the key issue if the government takes concrete measures to make up for the loss of their income and is important. Do you want the price of the cost to be per region, because you say 'in different areas the grape is treated differently'? Do you want it to be per belt? Do you even want by product type? Of course, you have a series of tools in your hands that you can use, as long as there is a political will. And at the moment there is no political will by the government to support farmers' incomes. The government's political will is to support the interests of business groups, highlighting its classic character. This is a question and, in essence, we must demand and demand, not just to establish minimum compensation, which is a very small amount of the income foregone by farmers, which makes it difficult for them to get back into the field, but also to survive themselves and their families. And I would remind you that this request is not a pillistic one. I have already been informed today that, as far as the production of wine grapes in Spain is concerned, one of the measures they claim is the fixing of a price - cost - because it seems that big-time traders and industrial producers have been dismantled everywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u25	The Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Vorides, has the floor for his denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u26	Discussions with the Communist Party of Greece and Mr. Karathanasopoulos always have an ideological burden and a special ideological interest. Let me say a little bit about it, so we can finish it. Look, first of all, I'm telling you again that the matter of the grape is being monitored, it's going on. We will see how this is going to go exactly and we will see what tools we will have then and if we need to support, where necessary, to support. Secondly, with regard to the more general issues you raise, the government is very targeted - and I have explained it several times - to support it. And you will allow me to tell you that as far as the concept of support is concerned: I am sure that the Communist Party of Greece does not want to enter into a logic which is simply given money when, at the end of the day, the damage that is created is not so much, that is, to end up paying more. The policy that we do is a policy, in fact, most of the times that we make up for loss. We are not just making grants support policies, we are not giving allowances to support people through this year. We give money to support producers in their production, and this means that we are doing an exercise - I have explained it before - to determine the loss of income due to the coronary. So whoever says that we do not give enough - and indeed in certain quantities - must tell me why we do not give enough and what account he makes it out of it. For example, for the crisis distillation we made available 20 million, the sector was less demanded. We've given more than just the sectoral request. Why did we give more, even though people asked for less? Because on the basis of our own accounts, the aid to be granted was greater. If you start, however, and you leave our own accounts too, namely by determining the damage, and by what the industry has actually asked for in terms of aid, you must tell me where the amount of aid comes from. I repeat: the amount especially for crisis distillation was that. Also, I have to tell you that 30 thousand tonnes have been distilted at the crisis distillation. It was about the estimate made by cooperative associations and wine producers that it would be distilled, because this measure is a measure that aims to empty tanks, remove a quantity of wine from the market in order to function smoothly. Yeah, but don't think the other guy's willing, because I'm making the crisis distillation go to give all the wine, because he's expecting a market balance. We are going back to the well-known issue, which we have discussed and which you have raised many times, and I have told you that it is a disaster: the minimum guaranteed prices, resulting from a minimum cost mechanism. You have asked me whether this measure is socialist. I am not sure to tell you the truth, if it is a socialist measure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u27	You say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u28	I'm sure it's a disastrous measure. In this respect, I am absolutely certain. As to its ideological nature and orientation, it is a state intervention measure, but - badly lies - and all these measures that we take during the crisis are state intervention measures. You say to me: 'Why do you not define the minimum cost, since you do other things which are of a public nature, such as State aid and which derogate from the general principle of freedom of competition?' However, these measures are taken in order to address the consequences of legal measures which have led to market distortions in order to deal with the health crisis. We are in an emergency situation here, and that is why we are taking these measures. However, the measure that you are proposing and which, by the way - because you referred to Spain - went to olive oil in Spain, with tragic results, with zero results, so that the measure does not apply, is what I have explained to you many times. Even though we are making a price mechanism, even though we are making the minimum cost for this product in terms of its production, even though we also make a reasonable profit on this minimum, which is the producer's expectations and thus determine a minimum price for the product. We did all this. Which market are we addressing? Are we addressing a closed market, namely national borders or even, as you said, the European Union? If that were the case at European Union level, something we could talk about. If this comes to a national market, with open international agreements, then in fact, two things will happen: Or at this minimum price, the guaranteed price, it will be higher than the price determined by the international trade in the product, so in this case, since it will be a lower price, that is, the other price, the international price, it will be more expensive, that everyone will come to the cheapest price, that our producers will lose, who could sell more accurately, or, secondly, the international price will be lower - and that is what you want to protect, the minimum - so no one will buy, because everyone will go to take the product that is going to be cheaper internationally and will remain at the expense of them. What you are proposing is the destruction of the producer in conditions of free movement of products. I have mentioned and said that it is a socialist measure, referring to the closed economy of the Soviet Union. I said that if you have a Soviet system of central - let me say - price-generating, this can be shaped, so you are not talking about profit, you are not talking about market mechanisms, you are not talking about any of this. However, in conditions of an open economy and particularly internationalised ones, this measure is a disaster for producers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u29	Of course, Mr Minister, there is also a representative and it must be discussed. That's very interesting to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Minister. Before we move on to the next two topical questions, which will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Interior, Mr Theodoros Lebanon, I would like to make a statement to this House. First, the Foreign, Economic and Investment Ministers submitted on 15-9-2020 a draft law: ‘Definition of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia establishing a Coordination Committee for Economic Cooperation’. Secondly, the Ministers of National Defence, Finance, Foreign Affairs and Justice submitted a draft law on 15-9-2020: Consolidation of Technical Provision between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Northern Macedonia on the Air Force Police of the FIR of Skopje (LWSS)". They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. We continue the debate on the topical questions with the first under number 1022/10-9-2020, a topical question by MP B2' Western Sector of Athens, the Radical Left Coalition, Athanasios Papachristopoulos, to the Minister of the Interior, on "The measures necessary to support, develop and improve the daily life of the inhabitants of Kastelorizos". Here, Mr Papachristopoulos, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. I would like in advance to ask for your tolerance for a little longer, if you consider it appropriate. So I want to remind you that many of us are confusing the other eleven islands with Kastelorizo. I just want to remind you, because many Greeks don't know that Kastelorizo is far from Rhodes and has a geographical specificity. Indeed, thanks to the particularity of Kastelorizo, it is no coincidence that today it is at the centre of not only European but also global interest. I'm telling you, he's got geographical peculiarities, no one else. I would like, Minister, to be honest with you and to tell you that a conversation that lasted more than three hours on the municipal council has highlighted the daily problems, the human problems of these people who, in my opinion, have no exaggeration are those who keep Thermopylae. I would like here to say that it made me an incredible impression, an unprecedented impression, the unanimous decision by municipal councillors of different variances to the problems of the island and to be more precise of the island complex, because between Kastelorizo is Strongli, the famous island of Ro is Ai - Georges and other small islands. And I would like to say here at the outset that this timely question is not of a opposition nature, it is over parties. I'm telling you honestly that I've been stunned on the city council and threw my party identity with the warmth and the human stigma of people who really live on the razor tip. And I say that again, because they're just fine people, they're the only ones who aren't afraid. There is this geographical peculiarity. I'm telling you, a lot of people think Kastelorizo is near Rhodes somewhere. No, it's not. It's too far away and it takes time. And I explain why you are a new politician, and I think we will speak the same language. Again, I would like to say that all the requests have nothing to do with the Ministry of Interior and I want to be honest with you, I should have carried here half the Ministerial Council, but because they involved municipal council decisions, and this has something to do with the Ministry of Interior, I felt it appropriate to address you and I would have your understanding of what really problems this complex of islands in Kastelorizo has. I'm explaining. There is a small airport, Minister, that if we expand it a few square meters, there is no need to trouble the Greeks who want to go to Kastelorizo and who have to go first to Rhodes, wait, run in the hallways, because if they lose the small plane that goes to Kastelorizo from Rhodes, they have to sit there. This is, then, the first request - it has nothing to do with your Ministry and I believe that together we will run these - the direct connection of Athens - Kastelorizoos airline. Second request related to the Ministry of Health: There is a wonderful space, the Polyvalent Health Center of Kastelorizos. Unfortunately, there they help with good intentions many children go to serve their service. That's not good enough. I would like your commitment too. Together, let's run. There should be incentives for specialist doctors - a pathologist, a pediatrician or even a general medicine - to serve. For those who do not know, in Kastelorizo in winter live around four hundred people and in summer can reach both thousands. Thirdly, I think they deserve to have a pharmacy too. If anything happens to someone urgently, the ship should go one day and return the other day. Fourthly, I would like to emphasise here, because Kastelorizo lives almost exclusively with tourism. I would really like to hear what motives we could have for this particular island, because 90% - not to say more - lives from tourism. I would like you to know that people at risk are investing and workers are all local. It's very important. Fifthly, and here I would like you to emphasise, when we enter the Kastelorizo, we have an incredible beauty - and I also do my self-criticism, because I have gone for the first time and I have seen an incredible picture, a sensational picture, beauty is not described - and yet this island has no drainage. This is urgent. I would also like to remind you - because I think it is very important - that the police building is from World War II and is in danger of collapse. I would also like to say this: First of all, Kastelorizo has fifty children. I want to remind you that in the Arquis there's a child and he goes to teacher and that's right. So there are fifty children in school, kindergarten, high school and high school. Incentives should be given yesterday to those teachers who are going to serve. I would also like to point out - because I think it is very important - that the financial facilities for all Greeks here should be multipliers, whether they are VAT, whether they are pharmaceutical prices, be they bank obligations, or loans. I say again - you are a new politician, and you understand the language I speak to you - together we will'remove' them. It's not opposition. This complex had been a little neglected - in the good sense I say it - and not one government, but all of them. And, if you want, I do my self-criticism. But that is not the point today. Today, as never before, the concept of "shelve", "effect", "zones" is at the centre of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u32	Close, Mr. Comrade. Don't "open" it any more. You've gone far beyond your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u33	I'm closing, Mr. President. We are interested in everyday life and the human way to see the problems of this island. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u34	Mr Theodoros Lebanon has the floor to answer Mr Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, Mr Papachristopoulos raised a number of issues which relate almost to all government work and ministries. I think that everyone in this Chamber will agree that it is one of the cases where - as a Greek people - there is a full understanding that Kastelorizo is not just a part of Greece, but is an integral part of Greece. From Kastelorizo Greece begins, Europe begins. It's really time-consuming, if you want, that some things that had to be done on the island didn't happen and have stayed behind. We all realize the agony of the island's inhabitants, we understand all the problems they have in basic infrastructures, we all realize that we really need to bend our heads over the problems of Kastelorizos, Agathonissios, if you like, and all the small and especially the expensive islands. This government has chosen to give particular weight to the development and resolution of small islands' issues. There is also a part of the presidency of the Government specifically dealing with small islands and will try to speed up solutions to problems that are carved in a very difficult bureaucratic process. I will mention a problem of the last few weeks concerning the management of waste on the island of Megistis, Kastelorizo. It is a project of EUR 2.2 million for which the municipality has made a programming contract with the South Aegean Region to move forward and we are trying to speed up all the permits that need, including ETAD, of the Real Estate Company, in order to finish, approve and auction a project that is absolutely necessary and fundamentally necessary for each region of Greece, how much more for Kastelorizo, which is not available for the comfort of the waste management. I'll tell you two things - let me - about the piece of management from the Ministry of Interior, especially the Municipality of Megistis. Firstly, the Municipality of Megistis today we are talking about has eight - nine staff: two managers, one driver, one plumber, two cleaners and two cleaning staff, waste collection. With the approval we gave in 2020 and having regard to the needs of the islands, we approved three additional posts for Kastelorizo. A political engineer - which is necessary for any municipality - has been approved even the slightest task - has been approved by a university economist to run the municipal cash service, so that there is a fund for the municipality to operate and the elementary and a lawyer, who will support the municipal's work on a number of very difficult issues that the municipality has among them. Moreover, we have been very problematic - I have said so many times in the Chamber, I think we all agree at first - that there are some different views in the context of its implementation. The fact is, however, that a large portion, if not all, of the small municipalities of the country are mainly subordinated to skilled personnel. There are municipalities today who don't even have a engineer to sign a study to run a project. There are municipalities that do not have an economist to sit on the cash service to make a cash management. So that is what we have tried in the 2020 approval, but also in the approval that will come out in a few days' time at the Ministerial Council - it will be approved at the end of the month - for self-government, to provide qualified staff. The vast majority of recruitments that were approved for 2020 will soon be launched by the competitive process, through ASP, are university education. Because we know, for example, that there is no small amount of work to go on if there is no engineer. Until then, especially for the islands of the southern Aegean, there is a special jurisdiction of the South Aegean Region, which supports and will apply this until the end of November, the technical services of the islands of less than three thousand inhabitants. So we had to give this part a definitive solution. We are giving a solution through the creation of development agencies. In fact, at the beginning of August, when I was in Halki, accompanying the Prime Minister, I spoke very much with the mayor of the island, a new man. I saw a municipal council of young people, which I sincerely say has given me a pleasant impression. Honestly, in the small islands, there are no such orders as the classic concept. It is not a Municipality of Athens, it is not a Municipality of Thessaloniki, it is not a Municipality of Patras or Larissa, which is a strong party colour. In the islands, there are factions that are more aimed at highlighting their place, despite the general political controversy. So there, I saw the mayor's agony about things they had to go on. In particular, for the part of the OTA staff, we are at this point with the three approvals. We are actually talking about an increase in municipal staff by about 30%. We are talking about interest in staffing and we are talking about a specialised group, which is trying to promote small islands' issues. And with the District Director, Mr. Hatzimarkos, and the Minister, Mr. Theodorikos, but also myself, we have been talking several times this week about any matter on the islands. Finally, and I will return to dentistry, in 2017, the SYRIZA Government made a proper decision with Law 4483, where in Article 32 special incentives were introduced for small islands and mountainous municipalities, so that municipalities can offer them, in particular, shelter. It is an incentive for young employees who want to go to the islands not to have the stress and the weight of housing. This caught the teachers, caught the uniform, but there was a omission. He didn't have municipal employees inside. So if I wanted to go to a municipal official either as a contractor or as a permanent on an island like Kastelorizo, which has an increased cost of living, like all the islands in the summer, there was no possibility of covering. That is why in the bill that we will be tabling in the next few days, we also include municipal officials with all kinds of employment relationships, either a fixed-term contract or a permanent contract, in the possibility of the municipality covering housing, so that it really is an incentive. You also know that because you are experienced that especially for aristocratic municipalities there is increased moleculosis among permanent residents to promote competitions in the APRC, with the obligation to remain at their place of appointment for ten years. So there is increased moleculosis and in the context of the reform of the law of ASE 2190, the government is prepared to hear any other proposal aimed at supporting small island and small municipalities, in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u36	It was given a comfortable time both to Mr Papachristopoulos and to the Minister for Protocols. Please be very warm in dentistry to be brief. We are all sensitive to this issue, which concerns Kastelorizo, and Mr Papachristopoulos has said so. I would advise him that the other questions, the incidents, but essentially, which he mentioned at the outset, should not be repeated, but that he should ask individual written questions to each of the relevant departments, which he is obliged to answer, because the Minister presenting himself cannot answer the other issues. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank you for the quick answer. The topical question I asked was two days ago, and I want to say a thank you for that, which shows that we speak the same language. The fact that you are telling me that there has been a positive step and we are correcting the municipal officials, and I welcome that. I said it again, Minister, that this timely question is not in opposition. But I would like to emphasise this: I love as much as no one else loves Patmos, where I go almost every year, Chalki, Symi, Tylos, Leipzig. However - I want to highlight this - there is a geographical speciality for the Kastelorizo complex. Hold it. I would like to say here: I felt a little uncomfortable and embarrassed when Mr. Paraschos, who has a shop on the beach, an elderly Kastelorizos, almost crying out, showed me some ten Greek maps, Minister, who did not have Kastelorizo. I smashed my head and embarrassed myself. Why am I saying that? I believe - and I would like you to commit yourself to this, because there are also a number of issues relating to national defence that are not discussed here - that together - I say that I am prepared to do so, because there is a lot of the issues of Kastelorizo - we have to run all the issues of Kastelorizo. I do not repeat them, Mr President, because I do not want to abuse your kindness. And I would like to end this timely question, which I say again that no one objects - I think it is no coincidence at the moment that the word 'effects', 'zones','shelves', with which I am not involved, as it is another priest gospel, is concerned with human, everyday problems - to say that these people live from tourism at 90%. Some people invest because they love the island. And those who work on this island, almost 99%, are Kastelorizis. I think it is advisable to show that many Kasteloriers have already married girls from across Cass. They have nothing to break up with the real Turkish society. I separate Turkey's leadership right now from Cass's society. In five minutes they can go and come. I'm saying this because they're out of order right now. I've been going to Patmos for thirty years. I love these islands. The peculiarity of Kastelorizo, which I told you was not the same - the geography, no one else - I want you to promise to run it together. I'm at your disposal to smack all of what I told you together. You're a new politician, and I think you understand me. Thank you, Mr President, and if I misused time, I apologise.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u38	No, Mr Papachristopoulos, these are national issues, which we are approaching with the best possible cohesion from all of us. Minister, you have the floor to close the timeline with your denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u39	I think we can all agree on things that concern the development of the small islands and Kastelorizo, especially Kastelorizo. I'd say, all right, from the school maps, we remember that Kastelorizo actually appeared in the bottom right corner, because it's a long distance from Rhodes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u40	I was ashamed, Minister, because he didn't have Kastelorizo on the maps. It's not your responsibility, it's our responsibility, it's our responsibility. It's an old story.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u41	I know. You know, on the islands, there's a lot of harmony between the local population. There's a lot of harmony in local communities. I think there were only two combinations coming down in the municipal elections. It is one of the few municipalities that has not taken a separate ballot from the People's Confederacy. So it's a classic case where there are no party lines in the municipal elections. In conclusion, as I said at the outset, I would say that it actually starts with Cyprus and Kastelorizo, Europe. We therefore need to provide a basis for growth and for incentives for both businesses and those who want to act professionally, namely for the investor, for the professional tourism and for the restaurant. That is why I think it was wrong in 2015-2016 that the rate of reduced VAT was abolished on the islands and indeed on the islands as a whole. I think it was a mistake, which in particular deprived the small islands of a real incentive for both tourism and other services. In any case, I think that the financial staff and the Ministry of Development and Investment will draw up proposals to see how we can strengthen the islands. Thank you for the time and tolerance, Mr President, and in my prology, which has indeed set out all the government initiatives and I would say that you can address all the ministers to get specific answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u42	I want you to commit, Minister, to running together.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, too. The second question will now be discussed under number 1034/14-9-2020 in the second cycle of the Greek Parliamentary Party, Mr Giannis Delis, on the subject: "The permanent and constant work for workers in school cleanliness will be done. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, Mr. Theodoros Lebanon. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are reintroducing the debate on the cleanliness of schools, which took place with the Minister of the Interior about three months ago. Minister, at the beginning of this year's school year, which is taking place in genuinely unprecedented circumstances, the question of the cleanliness of schools is of crucial importance, in order to prevent it from spreading the coronary into society. Nevertheless, the first school bell, which hit the day before yesterday, found the problems of cleanliness to remain and swell next to the enormous shortages of infrastructure and staff, which continue to exist in schools. So on the basis of the picture that exists today, any patches which are being attempted by the government and by several municipalities in the last few days, not only do they give solutions to the major and extensive problems of school cleanliness, on the basis of today's current and major needs, but they also fuel a climate of insecurity in the face of the new wave of pandemic, which I do not know if it has started or, in any case, is before the gates, as it seems. The only thing that the government has done against this problem now was to baptize as new recruitments of the same number of workers, who have been working with all kinds of work relationships that can be imagined - a working relationship of course - and the schools were cleaning up every day, while, at the same time, it is a spot for government policy - immigrants and immigrant cleaners and cleaners, after you asked them, the government, a certificate of Greekity type 2, in order to continue to clean up the schools or, as in the municipality of central Corfu, which this municipality rejected requests of experienced workers in cleanlinesing, who were serving, charging them its own failings and its own ambiguities in relation to the competition. With these and with them, the result is the hostage of the workers in school cleanliness to continue. All that happened was to change the terms of this work hostage, as the new contracts signed now provide for a time horizon. They are not project contracts, they are fixed-term contracts, which end at the end of the teaching year. In addition, it is stable from the nine and a half thousand posts, which were declared by the government, and which were, of course, these positions, almost half of them for parttime contracts, i.e. three or three-and-a-half-hour work. School units throughout the country are about thirteen thousand and cleaners and cleaners are nine and a half thousand. So you understand, just by this number, that the needs of the cleanliness of schools cannot be met. Of course, in these circumstances, and particularly in pandemic conditions, the demand for permanent and stable work comes even more, with greater momentum and gains much greater weight. And that's exactly what we're asking you. So we ask you once again what you will do so that all these fixed-term or short-term contracts can be converted into full-time contracts in order to meet the enormous needs that exist in schools and, of course, to meet full-time, permanent and stable employment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u45	The State Secretary for the Interior Mr Lebanon has the floor to answer Mr. Delis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Delis, if I am not mistaken, we have also discussed, at the beginning of this year, a similar question about school cleaning machines and you are giving me the opportunity to say a few things that have been done in the last two months. First, it was July 2010 when it was mentioned for the first time that the municipalities would take responsibility for school cleaning. It was almost nine extensions that were given to this process annually. All governments from there have given an annual extension. It will not apply to the school year 2010-2011, 2011-2012, 2012-2013 and we have reached school year 2019-2020. Until then, the needs of cleanliness in the vast majority of cases were INEDIBIM project contracts. And they were works contracts based on the number of seats. Therefore, contractors - cleaners and cleaners - paid up on the basis of the number of rooms they took on to clean in a school year. There were a large number of cases clearing one or two rooms up to eighteen school rooms, especially in the large urban areas. We all agreed at the time that the status of work contracts for the cleanup of schools - at least that, in the first phase - is unacceptable. And it is unacceptable by saying the most characteristic example, that if she was sick, she had fever a cleaner and could not go to carry out her work, she had to find a relative to go on her behalf to clean up the room. The cost for project contracts in the previous school year paid by INEDIBIM, the Institute for Lifelong Learning of the Ministry, was around 51 million euros. So the government took the decision - at least from the school year it started the day before - that the schools should be cleansed by fixed-term contracts. What are the advantages? Firstly, full insurance and wage rights, full of trade marks without burdening the worker, and a substantial conversion of contracts from work over a fixed period. On 29 July the amendment was passed in the House in the Ministry of Education bill. On 9 August the joint ministerial decision of the Ministers for the Interior and Finance on the issue of cleanliness came out. And we arrived at the beginning of the school year almost all the municipalities in the country - I think five or six municipalities did not join the needs of the cleaners - by a process and by giving the workers in the previous years the cleanliness of the schools. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] In a minute, Mr President. We didn't stop there. In practice, on 22 August, we introduced the possibility for municipalities to convert part-time work at their own expense - with an asterisk that I have mentioned - up to full-time. We have also enabled overtime to be paid, as is well known, and as is certainly to be done. For example, the ratification of the Act of Legislative content actually enabled contracts to be extended up to four months until 31 December 2020. So a contract that will have become 28 or 29 December 2020, for the next four months, will be by the end of April and we will see how the health situation will be then so that with temporary staff they can meet their own needs. In conclusion, the asterisk I was telling you before is that the Ministry of Interior has been regularly receiving information from the municipalities on a monthly basis about the exceptional costs they make due to a coronary, and these, in cooperation with the General Accounting Office of the State, are evaluated and re-allocated back to the municipalities in the form of exceptional aid, one of which will come out in the next few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, too. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u48	I think we should first of all agree on some things, Minister, on the debate. In other words, we must agree that the cleanliness of schools cannot be individual responsibility either for students or parents or teachers. It is a central state responsibility. On this basis we put the debate on. Now, whether by pandemic or not, of course, by pandemic, daily school cleaning is necessary, not only at the end of the course or just before they begin but also during the courses especially now in pandemic conditions. It is characteristic, however, Minister, if we accept these two as data, that the staff who exist in schools for their cleanliness today is not enough is not enough. I told you the number. It's nine and a half thousand, and thirteen thousand are the school units. So what's going on? How is this need for the cleanliness of schools covered? For every cleaner or cleaner, too many rooms account for, of course, a number of banning, of course, so that there can be an effective and comprehensive cleaning cover. It's typical of what's come out of publicity and I'll take you to a high school in the province, at the General High School of Fairy in Thesprotia. There for a general high school with a hundred and sixty employees and students, twelve rooms, two workshops, one library, three teachers' offices, a closed gym and two toilet spaces and of course several square meters of public spaces, there is for cleaning up all these areas a cleaner. Until last year there was another reduced working hours. This year is only one. It is indicative of what may happen in larger schools in large urban centres. Of course workers - and rightly so - cannot accept either the intensification of their work or the illegal expansion of their working hours which are being attempted several times to get out of work or move them, who are literally running from one school to another with the soul in the mouth or the talk about the entry of cleaning contractors into schools, as has already begun to be mentioned by certain municipal authorities. They cannot accept all this because, as we have said, the cleanliness of schools is a state central responsibility and they must be able to work in permanent and stable conditions. It is characteristic that the Municipality of Patras, which was one of the municipalities, as well as the Municipality of Thermi of Thessaloniki, as we know, who asked for more staff than the government finally announced at the beginning, has said that it will attempt to ask the government to fund the permanentization of the fifty-eight school cleaners, who have been hired with reduced working hours. We are talking about this, Minister, because we want to conclude that every school, in our view, must have the same meaning. He should have teachers, he should have cleaners, his cleaners, today especially his health workers. It is self-evident, however, that your own government and your own policy, unfortunately, do not guarantee them. And we say that because these school cleaning needs can never be and are not occasional but permanent. Each school should have this permanent cleaning staff. They are responsible for all the governments, and the previous ones, and they are not acquitted by any mismanagement of the issue and the hostage in which they have held workers for so many years, of course, with the hope of a hostage that continues with your own policy, even though we - the hostage conditions have improved. However, the dismissal of these workers is a hostage and flexible relationship. You need to permanentize them now. You have a responsibility to cover the need to clean up schools and to protect public health in accordance with EGE directives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u49	Here, Mr Secretary, you have the floor to close today's debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I think there is no one who will argue that it is the State's duty, whether the central state or the government, to care for the cleanliness of schools. That's something we don't talk about. Mr Colleague, I mentioned before the EUR 51 million that the former regime cost. With conversion and the new scheme, the corresponding costs for the same number of workers went to 84 million out of 51 million. Therefore, 33% more is the cost of changing project contracts with fixed-term contracts. Let us see how the halls were calculated because you set the example of fairy tale. INEDIBIM did the project contracts. Each cleaner therefore had a number of cleaners that cleaned up from about one to eighteen rooms. We had to find an algorithm to substantially convert the number of actors in hours. Incidentally, as far as the number of nine and a half thousand recruits is concerned, we have never talked about new recruitments, but we said that they are hires to cleanliness which are now a certain period of time. All jobs, therefore, were held under their responsibility over 12 rooms, these were automatically considered as full-time contracts for six and a half hours. And we arrived at this number after giving a 20% increase. With regard to the remaining part per municipality, until nine and a half thousand recruitment authorisations were reached, it was completed with part-time jobs with the two footnotes that I told you before about the possibility for the municipalities to increase. For example, Mr Peletlidis in Patras can, on the basis of Article 5 of the MFF of 22 August 2020, transform part-time contracts into full-time contracts and go to a normal six-hour hours. That is why we gave this possibility. It's a matter of self-government considering needs. There were one, two failures in the number and the initial data, but they will be corrected immediately. These include the Municipality of Thermi. It was a mistake to inform us about the number of contract works and will be corrected in the next few days. We are constantly talking with local government and we are in constant contact with the CEDEFOP and most municipalities in the country. We have followed the issue intensively during the summer holidays, particularly the staff of the municipalities, which carried out a great deal of work on moleculosis, the evaluation of applications and the suspension of provisional tables, the decision-making of objections and the adoption of definitive results. We were next to the municipalities and tried to solve problems and to be fair the system of notices that will come out so that they can be premiumed and stay out of cleaning houses. In general, we look at everything it takes to ensure that children and teachers in our public schools enjoy the best possible level of services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-16-S1-commons.u52	With the agreement of this House at 11.00 noon the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 17 September 2020 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda to be distributed to you.
