ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the topical and urgent debate, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Friday 15 May 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 690/11-5-2020 by the First Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the West Attica of the New Republic Mr Athanasios Bourras to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Elesina Labour Residentials". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 665/6-5-2020 by MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Paul Pavlos Pavlakis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Scandal in the 6th Health Region (YPE) with overpricing of individual protection measures." 3. The Question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: ‘Internal Tourism Programme for all 2020 with three (3) million beneficiaries and 15 million nights that create seven (7) million days’. 4. The Question No 689/11-5-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "State funding for sports federations and sports infrastructures." 5. The Question No 663/5-2020 by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament B3' South Athens Section of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Summary of pensions for retired people with a rural lot.' B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 666/6-5-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Charalambos (Hari) Mamoulakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The importance of the government's planning for the Northern Axis of Crete (B.O.K.) in the middle of the coronary pandemic.’ 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question by Mr Andreas Poulas, Member of Parliament, to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Providing free protection masks for workers'. 3. The Question No 670/8-5-2020 by MP of the East Attica of Mera25 Mr Maria Apatzidis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Organization of Graduates 5,500 of the U.S.." 4. The Question No 668/8-5-2020 by MP Aitolokarnanias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Borough to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: “Scandal 76.2 million € at the “ENGENATIO BODIES S.A.”. 5. The Question by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, dated 683/11-5-2020, on the subject: "Required measures to protect the labour market and the workers". 6. The Question No 680/11-5-2020 by MP Rethymnon of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Repealing of Emergency Sections (TEP) as an autonomous part of hospitals and placing them in the CEPY-DAB".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs briefs the House on what timely questions will be discussed today. All topical questions which have been tabled will be discussed in addition to the following: We will not discuss the fourth question with number 688/11-5-2020 in the second question of the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Let the co-operation of Governments - EU - industrialists at the expense of small vineyard growers and ammoniacs be stopped now, due to the obstruction of the MEP. Also, the fourth under number 684/11-5-2020 top-level question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The suspension of school tours in the interior and abroad without the provision for a refund of money" will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The fifth under number 667-7-5-2020 topical question by MP Serres of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boubas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The recruitment of permanent cleaners in schools" will not be discussed after Minister and MP consultation. The second question under number 685/11-5-2020 is the second question of the Member of Parliament, Eotolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Papanastassis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Do not cut the remuneration and the rights of employees of the Greek Air Industry" will not be discussed with a consultation of the Minister and MP. Finally, the third question under number 687/11-5-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Ioannis Delis, Minister for the Interior, on the subject: "Modification of all contractors in school cleaning and recruitment of new permanent cleaning staff for adequate coverage of the school units" will not be discussed following Minister and MP consultation. The second question under number 5051/20-3-2020 will be debated now by the question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on "Direct measures and sustainable solutions for borrowers". Mr Kegeroglou's question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr George Zavvos. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the problem of overcompensated households and businesses that are unable to serve their debt obligations, of course, was also a precursor to the crisis that we are experiencing now and the taking over of governance by you as a steward of the previous crisis, especially, which the Greek people experienced and a significant part was not given a definitive solution mainly under the responsibility of the banks. Today and in the face of the recession that everything shows will experience the place, the problem will be intensified for those who are unable to fulfil their obligations and, above all, their number will be widened for natural persons too - households - and for businesses. We therefore need to find those solutions which will provide a sustainable perspective for the fulfilment of their obligations, of course, which have the intention and will be integrated into such a system, taking into account the following: firstly, that there are those people who want to pay and seek a facility, which has to do with the criteria of regulation; secondly, that the first residence must be protected for all these weak people who want to be regulated; and thirdly, that there are people and businesses and households who fulfil their obligations towards the banks. Clearly it is not an easy equation, but we must make every effort. We have tabled to you - apart from parliamentary scrutiny - a proposal to set up an intergroup in this House, because we firmly believe that it is a matter on which everyone must contribute. No one must plunder but no one must be unscrupulous and not be moved by the problem. We therefore believe that this intergroup should go ahead. Furthermore, it seems that a committee of professionals, from the Chambers of Chambers of Commerce, from the Athens Bar Association, is already set up by all the bodies involved, together with officials involved in the regulation framework, in order to help give proposals and solutions to this issue. We would therefore like you to tell us what the government's planning for this issue is first and foremost, and if there are direct communications, which give us a prospect of a solution to this problem, so that it is not another issue that we did not have to deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u5	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I'd say the government always does everything possible. As you already know, it has taken several measures - and it will take even more - on the issue of protecting our vulnerable fellow citizens, particularly those affected by the recent coronary crisis. In particular, I would like to say that we have taken care of enough measures to extend the protection of first homes. In particular, with a new act of legislation, published on 1 May 2020, further measures have been taken to address the continuing consequences of the coronary pandemic and to return to economic and social normality. There are a number of measures relating to the protection of first residence by extending the validity of Law 4605/2019 until 31 July 2020. Thus, those who are eligible debtors will be beneficiaries of the law’s beneficial provisions and will be able to apply until 31 July 2020. I would like to say that the government has already been working on, after the three-month extension, and institutional framework, a support programme in which the State will subsidise with monthly payments of loans that have a mortgage and attachment to the first residence. Thus, we will ensure support for vulnerable households. We also have a security dispute, so that - exactly what the honourable Member said - does not take advantage of all the benefits it gives - new programmes, institutional framework - the strategic poor payers. I would like to say that the characteristics, which I can describe, of the regulation after the three-month extension of protection, relate to the grant of non-performing loans, which have a mortgage or an addition to the first residence, of the citizens affected by the coronary. We are also subsidising the regulation of provided loans with mortgages or additions to the first residence of the citizens affected by the coronary. This is the first time that such a measure will be taken. And it seems that the state comes as a helper and rewards the consistent borrowers. Of course, in these cases, debtors will be required to pay their participation, as the subsidy is provided for in a different percentage for interest-rate loans and for non-performing loans, which will have been launched with the various legal actions. Under no circumstances will the strategic malpractices be subsidized. That is why we will impose criteria and specific measures, but will also carry out a series of checks and cross-checks, and at any time, obviously, an abuse occurs, penalties will be imposed. I would like to say in other words and briefly - because we will be able to talk - that, on the one hand, the government has ensured an extension much greater than the one foreseen by the previous government, but on the other hand it also ensures a regime - at least nine months - which will involve subsidies for both the so-called green loans, i.e. the conscious borrowers, who are, however, affected by the crisis and those of the red loans. It will benefit the citizens, therefore, who are the most vulnerable, supportive of the economy and society. In this way, we will deal quite significantly with red loans. We believe that this subsidy is not an allowance, but essentially it is an investment specifically to vulnerable households, to society and to the economy in general. Mr President, I will stop here. But we can, if you please, then go into specific remarks or questions, which may exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, of course, you can invoke the failure of the previous government, which abolished the rule of law 3869 and the absolute protection of the first residence for those who will join it and not, of course, for the strategic poor payers, but you cannot do so on a permanent basis. Of course, he had abolished this protection and was scheduled to end on 31-12-2019. You gave a four-month extension. There is now an extension of two or three months. However, it is an extension of the problem, not an extension of window for a solution. Why am I saying that? Because of the tens - thousands of borrowers who applied for an initial application in this electronic platform and as formulated by the previous government, only eight hundred, as I know, have unfortunately managed to introduce some regulation. This in itself shows that we are earning time for the problem, but it is not the extension of a solution in itself. We propose that the regulation should be changed, that new possibilities be given - I have already explained to you the importance of intergrouping in order not to throw one another away - and, of course, the criteria that really need to be taken into account and the consistent borrowers and, of course, the people of weak people, those who do not want, but do not have the immediate opportunity to fulfil the obligations. In this sense, I would say that the new institutional framework is needed to protect the first residence for bankruptcy law and, of course, all this is about borrowers as well as guarantors. It is a matter that no one has touched. Unfortunately, he did not touch it as even Law 3869 should, and so far this problem has been left unsolved. The Code of Conduct for Banks created in the previous period does not comply with the new conditions. This code cannot meet the needs that exist today. Banking executives, while the parliament has voted for a regulation enabling them, by signing them, to provide solutions without having criminal responsibilities - and, at least, up to a sum of money can also be made depending on the ranking of the bank executive - banks have not made any such authorisations, that is to say, a director of regulation at a section level or management level can regulate loans of up to 25 000-30,000 in a way that provides sustainable regulation without any criminal responsibilities. This has not been done. So, too, the amendment, the provision passed by the House and gave this possibility to bank managers without having criminal responsibilities, has gone to the 'duku'. I don't know if he had any other use. However, in order to solve the problem of the world, it is not being exploited. I would like, instead of please the banks, as they have been doing for some time now, and instead of consulting them, to have an exercise of the supervisory role they have from both the Constitution and from the laws and from the European legislation, the Greek public and especially during times of crisis, especially when significant amounts from the budgets and from the loans that the country has taken for the recapitalisation of the banks. They cannot be independent bodies. They're not autonomous. He's not the businessman, the investor, who with his own money makes investments. With money from the state and the world, banks have been operating all these years. So there's got to be a consultation. I am not talking about a paternalistic tactic of the government that will order exactly what they will do, but they cannot come with openness and consensus in a dialogue that needs to take the initiative to provide viable solutions. That is what we are asking you to do, a new code that meets the new conditions, a change in the institutional framework for effective protection of first residence - I repeat - for people who want to regulate by excluding strategic poor payers, which I think everyone agrees with. There is no one today who disagrees. And, of course, if the government wants to support the other parties, let it go to the intergroup committee, let it consult the committee set up by the institutions and have considerable proposals. It will also be the good of the government, but above all it will be the good of the world and to solve the problem instead of perpetuating it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u9	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to agree with the honourable Member that the previous government has left us with a perforated system, which is why it is not enough and not enough. To date there are tens of thousands of outstanding cases due to the pacification of the pacifist courts throughout the territory. A large number is rejected, as we know, by the courts. The strategic well-paid at the end of the process are not protected, but we know they are making time. All these issues are currently coming to regulate a framework of legislation and actions which the government has undertaken. I would like to say that, beyond the platform, another two hundred thousand borrowers have bilaterally arranged their loans with the banks to date. The second issue raised by the honourable Member is the new bankruptcy framework, the insolvency framework, which we are preparing for the moment, and it will be about debt regulation, bankruptcy of natural and legal persons and their simultaneous debt relief. It is something that will be discussed here and voted on next month. In this context, it is planned to replace the individual debt adjustment tools that exist to date for overdue households, for the protection of first residence, for the extrajudicial mechanism and, of course, the main thing we say about the bankruptcy code. This new framework of insolvency will overall govern the private debt settlement to the public, AIA, ETA, banks and other individuals and will include the following features: Firstly, the ability to regulate and restructure debts by complying with which the borrower may save his or her assets. Secondly, the possibility of bankruptcy and of providing a second chance, as provided for in Community legislation, for borrowers unable to serve their debts. This second opportunity comes by deleting the balance of debts following the liquidation of the entire property and the control of the assets. Another point will be the possibility of bankruptcy and of providing a second chance for natural persons, apart from legal persons, the provision of provision for borrowers belonging to vulnerable social groups, such as housing allowances, the provision of for the identification, as I have said before, of strategic misappropriations. The other remark concerning your speech relates to the Code of Conduct - which I think we have discussed in detail in this House - which concerns and takes into account the citizens' real economic data and takes account of their reasonable costs and their ability to pay back at the time of the out-of-court procedure to settle their debts against banks. The Code is therefore in place, taking into account the data that have emerged since the pandemic and is intended to achieve sustainable solutions, i.e. settlement of debts with credit institutions. This Code also applies at the moment, i.e. it takes into account the new data of the debtor crisis. And so it takes into account each time the settlement of debts with specific parameters of each debtor, such as the ability to repay it, i.e. what income it has, what reasonable costs of survival or the actual and commercial value of its assets are. In addition, account shall be taken of economic parameters for obligors and guarantors of the debtor. And it should be noted that a basic, fundamental parameter for the execution of the debt arrangement is the actual economic weakness of the debtor - and hence of his contributors and guarantors - which must, however, be proved to be substantiated. So, on the basis of all these elements, it is a little difficult to have a horizontal arrangement, since we are talking precisely about individualised solutions. You spoke, Mr Kegeroglu, on the matter of the relationship and role of the banks. We also believe that in this crisis the banks must play a real role as a lender of the real economy and especially of small and medium-sized enterprises. This effort is being made, as you know, at all levels, on the one hand, to resolve and satisfy sustainable solutions to conscious debtors, but at the same time, at the same time, to provide banks with all the liquidity that has been made possible today because of the great benefits which the State gives - at the same time as the arrangements and great flexicurities provided by the European Union - within very short periods of time in the real economy. This is the big message at the moment, because we are fighting before the impurity, keeping small and medium-sized enterprises upright. That's what will be judged by success. In this - and I have the Minister for Development - the whole government is fighting. And that is where I think we all agree that banks have a new important role to play as a vehicle, as a belt to transfer liquidity to the real economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u11	Please complete, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u12	The government is making all the efforts and - if you like - takes all those necessary measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too. Before we move to the next question, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers of Justice, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Home Affairs, Migration and Asylum and State tabled a draft law on 11 May 2020: "Integration into the Greek legislation of Directives (EU) 2016/800, 2017/1371, 2017/541, 2016/19, 2014/57/EU, Clearing the Memorandum of Administrative Cooperation between the Ministry of Justice of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Justice and Public Order of the Republic of Cyprus, amendments to the Act. 3663/2008 (A '99) to implement Regulation (EU) 2018/1727 and other provisions’. We enter the next, in the first with number 662/4-2020, a top-level question for the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Bogdanou, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: ‘Support Fund for Economic and Business Aid’. The current question will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis. Please keep time for this, because the day is desecrated today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u14	We are going to keep up with time, Mr President. Thank you very much. The question is in the spirit of both the question and the answer from the Minister of Finance, Mr Zavvos, and the colleague of the Change Movement, Mr Kegeroglou. It concerns, Minister, precisely the financial needs of the real economy, an area in which the government's real performance is to be judged and where there is no communication margin for management. And the question I am transporting you has actually been formulated in many ways, via e-mail, which I receive every day. On 3 April Greece was the first country - indeed, with the blessings of Margrethe Vestager, Commissioner for Competition - to approve the plan for the provision of working capital to small and medium-sized enterprises and the largest companies. In this context, the Greek Government has at its disposal EUR 2 billion from the NSRF so that through the Guarantee Fund it can lever them up to EUR 7 million and give a valuable breath to the real economy, as we have said. In view of this commitment, therefore, the questions that I am sending you to you by voters and Greek citizens are about when and how the provision of loans will begin so that companies can request a loan for working capital. What will be the Greek State's guarantees for the provision of these? What will be the percentage for small and medium-sized enterprises and the large ones respectively? And what are the guarantees, Minister, please, that will be required to grant these loans?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr Bogdano, and for your time. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague, for the question. Jesus Christ Resurrection!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u17	Bless the Lord!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u18	The question is exactly at the core of the problem we have to manage. As we all realise, we are in the midst of the greatest economic crisis mankind has experienced, at least since the Second World War and the 1929 Crisis in America. Note that France has announced that for 2020 it will have the biggest recession in three hundred years - three hundred years! - unemployment in the United States for April went to 14.7% of 3.3% in February. The forecasts for the euro area recession are constantly being revised to the most negative. In these extremely unprecedented and incomprehensible circumstances until a few weeks ago, the Greek Government is called upon to find solutions, solutions which for us are even more difficult than in other European countries because, unfortunately, we have three serious aggravating factors in our economy. The first is that we have a lot of dependence on the tourism and focus industries, which are the branches that have basically been affected at their core by the current economic crisis. In general, countries dependent on this side of the economy are considered to have the greatest recession. The second factor is that Greece, unfortunately, has the highest debt - GDP across the Eurozone and the second on the planet. As a result, it fails to get out of the markets, to borrow a lot of money and to provide massive liquidity to the market, such as other European or other countries. And the third factor is that Greece has just come out of a ten-year economic crisis, which has tired business and household finances to an unprecedented degree. So we have to face the present crisis, having all three - we are probably the only country on the planet that we have all three - of these aggravating factors. In this context we have moved as fast as we can, Mr President. I have to tell you what the guarantee tool is for which you are asking me. It is our agreement with the European Commission and I would like here to thank Mrs Westager in particular for the speed. Greece was indeed the first European country to get the approval of the European Committee on Competition and the Commission to build this tool and the speed I think is a record for the European Commission. What did we do? We have taken the authorisation to use EUR 2 billion from the ESRB programme, to put it as a guarantee through the development bank in the Greek banking system, to leverage them on the basis of an agreement - which I will explain in my dentistry, so as not to take time - and to make the EUR 2 billion of EUR 7 billion. If we need to put three billion more, i.e. if we need to put an additional billion, that is to say, if we see that the programme has a great deal of demand and that disbursement is quickly made, you can be absolutely certain that we will do so. We are prepared to make this move as well, since we consider it necessary. The central objective is now that our economy is slowly opening up - and I will tell you in my dentistry how it goes - to provide the necessary liquidity to get ahead, because this will judge the maintenance of jobs, this will judge the biggest or less recession for 2020 - I would remind you that the Commission's forecast is for a recession - 9.7% for Greece for the year 2020 - but it will also judge the faster recovery in 2021, since it has all gone well with the pandemic. Finally, I should like to say, of course, that we maintain our optimism mainly because, in the midst of this unprecedented crisis, Greece has gained a positive publicity and a great one, as we say in the language of advertising, rebranding, that is to say, a change in the world's common understanding of what Greece is and what its potential. Last example is Mr. Krugman's last statement saying that, although you don't believe it, Greece is the country that crushed the coronary. So we believe that this positive image of Greece along with the liquidity that we will give the economy will ultimately give the opportunity to make the surprise in 2020 as well and not confirm the worst scenarios. But that's what I'll tell you in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u19	Here, Mr Bogdano, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u20	Alas, Anestis, Minister. Thank you first of all for the first part of the answer. Take note that you are answering the questions of the citizens and specifically the audience of the daily radio broadcast “Mea Culpa”. I am therefore going to ask you, in journalistic terms, exactly how this leverage is to be done, so that we know when these tools will reach the hands of the businesses in need of them. And if I may, a question about wasp, which also comes from our fellow citizen and from my fellow citizen in Athens. In Athens, there are too many dermatism businesses, Minister, Tattoo studios, such as "Kinky", "Black&White", "Jimmy's", "Heroine", "Dr Peppers", "Ec Tattoo", "Second Skin", some of them, which have specific features. They are sanitaryly audited, because precisely this rigour is a precondition for the success of this work, anyway, because people are tattooing one - one and also, in summer, they are not tattooing. So, if you want, tell us more specifically, to answer this question, which has also come to me in an email, if there's a separate prediction for this part of the economy, however small it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u21	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u22	Colleague, we're not underestimating any part of the economy, no matter how small it is. And the one company that has a problem, because of COVID -19, is a business, a job and a family that we need to solve. In particular, for the dermatism centres, I must tell you that we have raised this issue with the committee responsible. Our view, which we have presented, is that in any case outside the COVID -19 these undertakings kept health rules too strict, such as gloves, face and so on. So they have a reduced risk in relation to other businesses, and I believe that very quickly we will be able to achieve and announce the date of opening up of these businesses. Now I'm entering the core of the main question. First of all, I can explain one thing to make people understand the times. A guarantee tool that you want to lever through the banking system, and you even use bank resources for it, from the day you get the idea of doing it until the day you start giving the first money to businesses, international practice says you need about six months - if you're too fast - for a year, as long as the average is. Because to do this, you need to find the money, get permission from the European Competition Commission, convince the Bank of Greece, get permission from the Bank of Greece, negotiate with the banks, sign contracts with the banks, pass the contracts from the legal boards of the state and banks, make corrections from the services, sign up, make public invitations and then start the program. We, which would normally be at a very high speed in six months, do it in forty days. That is why we must also pay particular tribute to the Group of the Secretary-General, Mr Tsakiris, who, with the experience he had from the European Investment Bank, has helped to make this instrument a reality. I have to tell you that yesterday, on the 11th day of the month, there was a public invitation to the banks to come and sign the contract. The invitation provides for a time limit of 15 days for the banks to sign the contracts and obviously all the relevant actions have been taken before and the contracts have been passed by the legal boards and the banks and the Ministry, as well as by the Bank of Greece. So, on the 11th and 15 days, we arrive on May 26th. From May 27, 28, the tool will now be available to businessmen, so that they can go to their banks and make the application via the electronic platform and start paying the first money. This is the third financial instrument created by the Ministry of Development in the middle of COVID -19. Since the 13th of March, the quarantine started to date is the third tool that works. The first was the electronic platform for the payment of interest, interest rates on business loans. On this platform, thirteen thousand businesses have already been approved today and another forty-two thousand companies have applied and their application is in the process of processing, so we will reach about sixty thousand businesses that we have been paying for the next three months. The second financial instrument is TEIX II, which made a record. To go faster, we have used the same in principle a notice that the previous government had with the development bank with TEPIX I, but which was not too much of a move, due to the circumstances at the time. We improved it a little so it could be faster. In fact, this week we removed about half of the documents to minimize the bureaucracy it had. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] In five days while the programme has available EUR 1.3 billion with leverage, applications were made for 5.5 billion loans and we closed the platform so that banks can assess applications and get rid of the system that was almost blocked and which will be reopened on 20 May. Today we are talking about 200 million has already been disbursed by the banks to business. So it has already started to enter the market and by the end of May the whole resource of 1.3 billion has been eliminated, and I am sure it will go better and better, because we will be directing additional resources to the TPIX II programme so that it possibly exceeds between 2 and 2.5 billion by leverage. So with the 7 billion of the large guarantee programme, with up to two or even a few billion billion more on the guarantee and about 1 billion on the interest payment, the Ministry of Development in forty-five days puts further liquidity on the 10 billion market. I am sorry, but I do not know if it has been understood how difficult this was and how much it was not at all self-evident at the start of this crisis that we would be able to use these resources as quickly as possible. Is that enough? Unknown at the moment to tell someone with certainty, because in the equation we still have many parameters that we don't know about. We expect the European Commission and the European states to decide on how tourism works, what protocols will be, how the tests will be carried out, when bookings begin. All this is still under discussion and it is not entirely dependent on the Greek Government, but they will judge the speed with which the economy is going to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u23	Please complete it very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u24	In conclusion, however, I say to you - and this is hopeful - that the first week of the partial opening of the economy, as it took place last Monday, but also on Monday, it shows, Mr President, that the cigarettes in the stores - and this is demonstrated by the electronic transaction system - are very good, are remarkablely high, are much higher than the corresponding week of 2019. Of course, someone will say that it makes sense after so many days of quarantine people want to tear themselves apart and go for a walk and shop. I don't oppose this, but let's imagine that the stores were also open empty and said they didn't make a chef. The economy seems to react. And we're here to help her react faster and better. Thank you very much for the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u25	We are now moving on to the first with number 5067/20-3-2020 question of the circle of petitions from Members of Parliament B2 West Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Harulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Additional measures to support small and medium-sized enterprises and traders". The Minister for Development and Investment will respond again, Mr Georgiadis. Here, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u26	Good morning, Mr. President and Minister. We are pleased that you are here in Parliament to discuss a very serious issue concerning small and medium-sized enterprises. So, first of all, I would say that the question we are debating is a timely statement of an unanswered question at the end of March, to which only Mr Theodorikos replied and not your Ministry. That's how he got here as a timeline. But we will have the opportunity to talk about the backbone of the Greek economy, as we all say, which is small and medium-sized enterprises. The question is whether, with our policies, we are serving and in practice prove that we believe that the small and medium-sized enterprises have an important role in the Greek economy. First of all, we are heading towards a new normality now, with the partial and gradual lifting of the quarantine and with regard to the business part, businesses, this new normality can mean too much. I would say, firstly, that the risk of many businesses not opening is visible and that is not what SYRIZA and Kafantari say so, the competent bodies, such as GATT, which mentions certain numbers, about 100 000 businesses that will not open up. Our logic at the very first moment was that, Minister, small and medium-sized enterprise had to be supported, because if it shuts down a business, it does not open again. We have talked about three billion additional, directly, non-refundable advances to small and medium-sized enterprises. We have followed you from the answers you have given to your colleague. All the questions that are being discussed today are relevant. You spoke about millions of years ago, you talked about money that has fallen, about measures, 'for, for'. First of all, I will tell you that there is a difference in Greece, in relation to the other countries of Europe, in relation to the GDP rate, which has been given and given, this is much smaller than in other countries. We estimate that with the money that has fallen on the market - which they have dropped - and concern mainly workers, the figure does not exceed 1.4 billion, that is, 0.7% of GDP. I'm talking about what's happened so far. Let us not say millions and what happens from June when the repayable advance will begin to be granted to small and medium-sized enterprises. But that's why we have evidence here. So the evidence says that the 55 million that you announced, so far, were approved for eight thousand six hundred businesses out of the hundred forty thousand who applied for, compared to the two hundred and five thousand on parole. These are the evidence. And that money, Minister, be careful, will take it from June, that is, three months after the pandemic's beginning. All right, the millions, the fine programs, and you do well to announce, but the question is, there is to be an implementation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I now come with regard to small and medium-sized enterprises to talk about bank lending. Minister, you announced 55 million, which will be given to businesses based on 25% of last year's turnover. The question is, however, that it concerns only companies that are up-to-date banking by the end of 2019. However, you know as the Minister responsible that 40% of small and medium-sized enterprises are not in this category, because, as you rightly said, we have been through a ten-year crisis. You have also talked about lending, but on the other hand, when requests are made by small and medium-sized enterprises, previous loans are deducted into the amount. I don't think it's for laughing. I beg your pardon, these are serious business issues. Allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u27	I'm not laughing at you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u28	In the meantime, a very important sum is not taken into account in the sense that there are loans - and I am talking about loans guaranteed by European funds and funds - which make the whole process difficult. Now, for the focus, which I shall say, Minister, it is generally the small and medium-sized ones that you must also state some measures for those who have issued certain checks. A suspension was given for their payment, but there are those who are waiting to collect because they have checks in hand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u29	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u30	And these are too many small and medium-sized businessmen and you need to see it. At the moment, the banking system must lend, on the basis of these requirements of what it owns - I must say it like this - and, from there on, a bank arrangement will probably be provided in instalments. Finally, because we also talked about rents, there are announcements and generalities. Okay, 40% reduction in the crisis, quarantine and so forth, but there's also a world, who's waiting to live from a rent. So beyond the announcements, you must immediately specify the measures for the owners as well. There have been issues about the ENPIA, about tax legislation, but you must at some point respond to that as well. The rest in my dilemma, and I thank you, Mr President, for having exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u31	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u32	Six minutes of prototype! I want at least ten minutes for my prototype, and we're watching. This is where the rules will be observed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u33	I put my time on, but I won't interrupt you. I'm just telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u34	Firstly and above all, before I say anything else, I wish to wish Mr Alexiadis a moment ago, I had not seen him all this time. Warm by, Mr. Comrade. I see you well, and I'm very pleased about that!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u35	Be well, thank you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u36	I've opened my phone to read 'cause I don't want to be wrong. My fellow Member, I would like to speak with great honesty. Last night, Mr. Pope's announcement was made on the repayable advance. Very quickly Mr. Pappas realized that this was some kind of joke. I can't believe Mr. Pappas himself wrote it. The one who wrote it must be fired immediately because he exposed SYRIZA's party great. I did not comment on it by collegiality, and I was surprised to hear you repeat it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u37	You didn't understand what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u38	I understand very well what you said. You said, for instance, what Mr Pappas said yesterday, which is - if I may say so - for laughter! It says, therefore, Mr Papapas yesterday: "Today it has been announced that the repayable advance of 55 million euros will receive in May only eight thousand six hundred businesses from the hundreds of forty thousand who have applied for it and the more than two hundred thousand who have suspended their operation, that is, only 6% of those who requested and 4% of those who suspended their operation." It also says that 'the aid is crumbs, because, for example, for a business with a turnover of EUR 400,000 and four employees does not exceed EUR 933', what you have said before.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u39	I didn't say the last thing, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u40	Only the last thing you said and said about June. Didn't you say we'd give it to you in June?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u41	I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u42	So let's go now to figure out what the repayable advance is, because if you haven't understood this in SYRIZA - you, too, are banking - we have a terrible problem. First of all, we will not give the money back in June - let's go to basics - we will give another billion in June. A billion will be allocated in May and further, plus a billion in June, which has not been announced. Secondly, there is an electronic platform at the Ministry of Finance. It is called "My Business Support". Get in there and you see. What about this online platform? Every minute that passes counts the clock how many businesses are approved and they get the money. By the time Mr. Pappas made the announcement, they had taken the money eight thousand six hundred businesses. Until Mr Stakoras answered him one hour later, at 8 o'clock at night, business had become twenty-two thousand four hundred. Today, if you press Google on your mobile at "My Business Support", they will have gone almost thirty-five thousand and by the night sixty thousand! You haven't figured that out yet! I mean, you're completely irrelevant! Let's just explain it: ninety-one thousand businesses out of the hundred thousand applied will take a month in May, in the week, 1 billion euros. In June they will get another EUR 1 billion! Now let's, for example, explain it. A business with four employees won't get 933 euros, which says Mr. Poppas, will get by default, from the algorithm, at least 4,000 euros! That's what the platform says, you go in, you don't have to be an expert, you don't have to be a congressman, you don't have to be a banklor. You just need to know Google search and get on the platform. If these, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have not understood them in SYRIZA and you have ruled Greece for four and a half years, it is a miracle that the building of the House has remained standing! So I come back to have a serious conversation of serious people. Everything you said in your prototype, five and a half minutes, delete it. If you want to have a good conversation of good faith, we'll be serious about what's true and judge us about what we're doing wrong. No objections. We can't do everything perfectly. I would like to ask you, and apologise for not answering the question that you partly lied to me at the beginning. Indeed, you have asked me a written question. I beg your pardon, but within 25-26 March I did not have time to answer a question. I, as you know, Mr President - and Parliament's statistics prove this - am one of the most consistent in parliamentary control. I never miss a question. Before you heard that the JRC's question did not answer why my colleague was in a heartbeat. The Minister is here, but my colleague couldn't come. Well, one question was not answered and went through the timely procedure, which had been answered by the Minister responsible, Mr Theodorikos. So I would like to answer the question, so that it does not appear to me that I am avoiding it and then going to dentistry, where I hope you will be more read, anyway, because the protology was a tragedy, indeed. So let's explain it a little and talk about the major concern of shopkeepers, bank seats, municipal fees and all the other things that you're asking right, because they matter. I read it to you so that I am not mistaken: in paragraph 8 of Article 37 of the Act of Legislative content dated 20-3-2020 we write - it is precisely for your question - 'By decision of the City Council, undertakings which are necessarily interrupting or restricting their operation, due to measures to prevent the spread of the CIVID -19 coronary and which do not use a licensed common area, in accordance with Article 13, may be exempted from the corresponding fees for the period in which the restrictions apply. That decision may also regulate issues of netting with future fees, etc..’; I read it because you are writing to me in the question whether we are going to legislate that there should be a discharge of the charges of the companies that are closed down. And that's what we predicted. In fact, since we have been online, Mr President, the Municipality of Athens, for example, and we should congratulate him on this, Mr Bakoyannis, has built a very easy-to-use platform where businesses are entering and exempt from municipal cleaning and lighting charges, precisely because they have been closed because of COVID -19. Other municipalities have done the same, but I say for the Municipality of Athenians, because it is the largest municipality in the country and it is mostly about more businesses. So what you are asking me in the question, between the submission of the question and today's debate, from my own backwardness, is clear, so as not to blame you - they have already been answered by the government. They have been legislated, they have become electronic platforms, businesses have been relieved from the end. I say this because I want to convince you that I am extremely willing to have a debate with SYRIZA with reasonable people and if you really have a good idea that we haven't thought about, not only will I be willing to adopt it, but I can even advertise that this is SYRIZA's idea. But to talk about real events - and I will close with it - and not with gratitude. Because, Madam President - and I would like to say this to the House, because these must be heard - there are also the Minutes - when the Commission made the forecasts for the 2020 recession, in fact, it had Greece as a country with the possibility of having the biggest recession throughout the Eurozone, of 9.7% for the reasons I explained to Mr Bogdano before, not to repeat ourselves. It did not pass one hour after the communiqué of the Commission and SYRIZA issued the following announcement: "The devastating choices of the Mitsotakis Government lead Greece to 9.7% recession, etc." and did not notice the press release that the last three countries were Italy and Spain. Under Greece, that is, it was Spain. Do you know how much the Commission's own communication on Spain provides for? -9.4%. Did I not understand, Mrs Kafantaris, that for -9.7% in Greece it is the catastrophic choices of the Mitsotakis Government, but that for -9.4% of Spain it is not the Podemos, Iglesia, his friend Tsipras and the Spanish Communist Brother party? So, just a pair of yours? Well, don't be happier with the fact that he's had a major global crisis, or hope that because of the economic disaster, you'll regain power. Nor will it come, we will go well in this area, as we do so far, and the Greek with optimism will face this crisis as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u43	Are you going to use your seconds? Because you've exhausted times.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u44	I am sorry, Mr President, but also the Minister - and unfortunately - that I intended to discuss...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u45	I would like to ask why there are colleagues who are waiting to speak, and their carotidity is a proverbial one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u46	Of course, but things need to be answered. Unfortunately, the Minister raised the debate. I came here with concrete proposals and questions, because people are listening to us right now, Minister, and he knows very well what money has fallen on the market. Another announcement and another reality. Well, you did not answer questions, no matter how much you wanted to make an attack on SYRIZA, which you do not forget is that the fact that we are here right now is due to SYRIZA, who also left a reserve in particular -37 billion - which you were forced to recognize. You must know that other countries have given up 20% of their GDP to support businesses, workers, etc., while Greece has not done so. And because big words are very nice, tell us what is going to happen with companies that cannot be borrowed when they are, for example, in guarantees programmes from the European Investment Bank. You didn't tell us about rents, what would happen to the owners in particular. You referred to the issues of seating and focusing. We stress that we asked this question and the other day Mr Theodorikos took an act of legislation that says "may be" to the municipalities. So, glorious glories throughout Greece also claim this amount to be free from municipal fees for those involved in focusing and, anyway, renting municipal areas. As far as the figures are concerned, they are concrete data for yesterday. And I really talked that this money hasn't fallen on the market. Now, "will" fall? I wish we could see it, Minister. I wish we could see it. And the world that listens to us, too, the small- and medium-sized, really, really, is waiting for it. But what has happened to this day? From there on, however, there are other issues. For the issue of cheques you have not answered what is happening with those who hold checks and how to solve it. Also, there are some things about the focus. The opening and extension of the seats must be carefully carried out because there are other small and medium-sized ones. On the other hand, there is the question of staff for catering businesses operating under certain specific conditions, because the sanitary part is very important and certain conditions need to be met. What's gonna happen? We are talking about subsidisation of workers' contributions. Also, any measures that have been allowed to be extended by the end of the year for small and medium-sized enterprises, insurance contributions, etc. Also, another very serious issue is raised in relation to air conditioning, which scientists say some things. We need to see what packages there will be in order to be able to change their air conditioning and for health reasons. However, what is certain, Minister, is that so far money has not fallen satisfactorily on the market. Scientists are still waiting. We announced, made platforms, but what is the result? And people are listening to us. What measures are taken from now on to strengthen control mechanisms and to focus, these measures must be concrete, on the basis of health protocols and on the use of persuasiveness rather than any arbitrariness of the state - and I think it is understandable. And tell us how you see the support of Greek products, especially the focus. Some proposals have been made by small and medium-sized enterprises even to reduce VAT on Greek products. Your social face, Minister, and your government, must not end here. Small and medium-sized enterprises should not be left to the mercy of the herd's immunity to the economy, i.e. the mercy of the market. For I do not think you will agree with a statement by your Minister who said yesterday, the Minister of the Interior 'capitalism we have, some will live, some will not.' Well, we want there to be small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which at least supported and supported the Greek economy. And I imagine at your meeting today with the Chamber of Commerce - because I have been informed - you can be clear about the proposals you are going to make. And listen to the bodies, the chambers, the clubs, because SYRIZA doesn't say it, the society says it with its organs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u47	Yes, sir. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry if my look was acidic. I didn't mean to. I did put up a little decibels, mostly when I realized that you still don't know what Google is. It was a revelation for me. It is quite obvious that the party that opposes e-learning in schools, distance education, has not yet realized how the internet works. So I'm rejoining. A statement was received yesterday by the economic director, Mr. Pappas, on the repayable advance that proves that Mr. Pappas, the head of the SYRIZA, and you as a Member, did not understand either what the repayable advance is or how the electronic platform works. I'm the one who lets people judge it, as we all are judged. I'm going to second. I can't get over it. Yes, Mrs. Kafantari, you live in capitalism. I don't know if you know. That's right. And from what I remember, your last attempt to crush him in 2015 led to the famous asshole. Then you normally lived in capitalism. So you, too, live in capitalism. I live in capitalism, too. Now leave the rest, the dreams of your youths. Let's go to the big one now. Never did Mr Theodorikos say "whoever wants to live and whoever wants to die". The question of whether the State will take the legislative action to regulate the operation of private enterprises has answered the obvious: in the system that we have, which is called capitalism, the State cannot legislatively intervene in how private enterprises operate. And thankfully, it's the answer. As to whether we're here because of SYRIZA, it's the only thing we'll have an agreement. We are, in fact, partly here because of SYRIZA. Firstly, I am the Minister because of SYRIZA, because if SYRIZA hadn't made political life so toxic, we would not have been able to win the battle of ideas and people like me to be in these ministerial mortals. That's what I owe you. Secondly, you destroyed Greece in the first half of 2015. And it is also a timely debate after the renewal of the mandate of the governor of the Bank of Greece, Mr. Yiannis Stournaras and yesterday, I would say, glafy as a humorous announcement of SYRIZA that you will once again be in the marble altars with the Digenous Akrita. In any case, in order to come to the major, in fact Mr Yiannis Stournaras as commander of the Bank of Greece in the first half of 2015, proved to be one of the most serious pillars of the country's urban democracy. It makes sense to hate him. It prevented you from eating the Attica Bank's money and resalting the mint. That's what you didn't forgive him. You sent his wife control, you tried to put him in jail in false accusations of "NOVARTIS" and now you are taking out your bile that has been renewing his term for another six years. It's okay. You'll get through this, too. What can we do? It's all life's got. Let's go to the big one now. I'll say it again. When you come to the House you should be read as a Member. You say to me: "Take over money, Minister, but our citizens want to hear actions. You did electronic platforms. And the result?’ I'm telling my colleague's phase. Let's get to the result. A million seven hundred thousand fellow citizens took us 800 euros via the online platform. Isn't that a result?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u49	But I said it in my protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u50	One hundred and sixty thousand scientists took the 600 euros online platform. Isn't that a result? What is it? Is that a theory? You falsely said that Greece has 0.7% of GDP in measures and is the lowest in Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u51	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u52	Madam President, there is an instrument called ECOFIN. They are all the Finance Ministers of the European Union. That's where the meter board came in by country. Greece is above the European average. More than 2%. We are from the countries upwards, not from the countries downwards. This is a small miracle, considering that Greece was the country with the worst economics of all the countries of Europe. However, the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis managed in the midst of the coronary crisis, not only to crush the coronary, in the expression of Paul Krugman for the fact that Greece managed this, but at the same time managed to move the economy much faster. As you have heard before, we are the first country in Europe to obtain approval of its guarantee programme by Mrs Westager and the European Commission. First country. We moved faster than everyone else and the economy. So all you're saying is, I don't know where you're from and where you're from. We have not given 0.7% of GDP, nor has we given just 1.4 billion. All the numbers you said are wrong. A number right, I tried to see if you said. One right thing you didn't say. If you are demanding and claiming to have a civilised and reliable debate, which I would like you to have, you should come with the right numbers in this House. And I repeat, where we've been wrong to apologize and say we've been wrong. For example, in the piece of lawyers and scientists we were wrong. We've identified it. We said I was sorry. I don't claim we're doing everything perfectly. But I claim that you come to the House completely inconsistent. Why do you come intact? Because your party has not yet been able to think that you have lost the election. You have not yet been able to dignify that the Greek people voted against you in four consecutive elections. You have not yet compromised the idea that the Greek people do not want you. And that's what you're pulling out with all this complacent picture of announcements like the one we've been talking about - not repeating it - or press releases against Stournaras that touch the boundaries of the comico, I repeat. I will conclude by saying that at this critical juncture, the place does not need a comedy from the Opposition, nor a cradle from the Opposition. A serious opposition is needed, as a serious government needs. If you intend to play this role and come to the House or to the public sphere with specific suggestions that make sense, that would also do good to public opinion and go a little better to polling. But it would do very good to the Greek people, because it would help us to do things we probably haven't thought about.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u53	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u54	In general terms, therefore, I repeat. We're in the week we're moving on to partial lifting of the quarantine. The economy is developing smoothly as part of the partial lifting of the quarantine. It seems so far that we do not have much reappearance of the disease, as has unfortunately happened in other European countries, when they partially lifted the quarantine. We are optimistic about our financial instruments to provide the necessary liquidity to the market. Finally, you said something that needs to be answered. I had answered Mr Katrin's previous question. This is why companies which are'red' are excluded from all these financial instruments. It is a great debate, because indeed many businesses in Greece are in this category. I think, however, that we will all agree that those who handle public money should be treated with responsibility and, above all, with the feeling that this is the money of our fellow citizens rather than our own. So we cannot give them up in advance knowing that they will never be given back. So we must finally give Greece a message that the consistent businessman, the consistent borrower, the householder - as you have been deceivingly calling him for too many years - can benefit from the state of honour and recognition that he deserves. That's why we started with him carefully for public money. Of course, there will also be measures along the way - not so galantoma - and for those who certainly did not have the appropriate luck. Not for those who were deceivers, but for those whose juncture and judgment came to much greater difficulty. But first we will start with those who did their job properly and those who at great personal cost and sacrifice were consistent with the obligations all these years. They must be honored and we will rely on them first to move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u55	But you did not give answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u56	Do you want me to get a tritology? I'll have to. I have no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u57	We have said to the Conference of Presidents that all the Vice-Presidents, as well as the President, have said that parliamentary control consists of short positions from the Members and brief answers from the ministers. So when the Member goes beyond the time limit, it makes sense for the Minister to want the same treatment. You see, now, 11 minutes you, Mrs. Kaphantaris, 14-and-a-half minutes, the Minister. If you go in proportion to the simple method of three, that's the same time. But it's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u59	We enter the third under number 675/11-5-2020 in an up-to-date question of the first cycle of the MEP of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Direct support for the farmers and farmers of Elias". The Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Mavroudis Voridis, will answer. Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I know that, despite your natural presence here and despite the fact that today the heart of the debate will be the agricultural production of Elias, your thoughts and minds are in the Council of Ministers which will be made today and will make critical decisions on the agricultural production and the primary sector of our country. And I know that because you too understand that the economic and social upset caused by the pandemic may significantly affect the viability of Greek agriculture and livestock, because as a man on the market you know very well that the repayment times for products delivered either to retail chains or to free trade are widened, at the same time as the cases of uncovered cheques have increased. And I'm always talking about transactions involving the primary sector. So it is a major issue that the country's food adequacy and the food self-sufficiency that you have set up a committee at a time when export is about the primary sector of the country. And that is what we must say that this is a real real exception to ELSTAT's data in March, the increase in food exports by 15.5%. But that is something that needs to be strengthened and extended. Why do we say that? Have Greek farmers and farmers so far, these two months with the measures for the coronary pandemic, have they seen support measures? Have they seen a suspension of tax, insurance or banking liabilities? Have they seen quick VAT returns? Have they received ELGA compensation in good time? And here you will have to reply, Minister, to what is being discussed in order to offset compensation with future contributions from the ELGA. Has something become effective about the Greek products? Do they have access to liquidity and lending so that they can grow? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] They are well aware that on 30 March, Mr Stagioras gave the Ministry of Rural Development and Food 150 million euros. But there is one question. So far, has 1 euro been allocated to farmers and farmers from these 150 million forty-five days later? Some poor people consider that it is not a coincidence that the first compensation granted at the Ministry's initiative is for flower producers, the majority of which are in Attica. I know you, and I know you don't think so, I don't believe it and I don't adopt it. However, noteworthy, you understand, when the country's primary sector has been affected, when the first compensation is given to a sector located in Attica, it is perhaps not the best signal. Now we're going to Elijah's. You know the issues very well, because you've made teleconferencing conferences. Strawberry: 94% export orientation. Sold to one third of the price during the crisis in large quantities, 10% has gone for jam and 10% has been thrown because producers have been disappointed. Farmers: you have held three meetings so far. You are well aware of the low prices for lambs during the Easter period, when a 2 euro animal was sold per kilo and the meat came to be sold in Athens, Minister, 12 euros. Of course, that's why your fellowman, Mr. Georgiadis, has left, you're not responsible. The farmers have had a fall in exports, an unwitting thousands of lambs and, of course, an unjustified fall in milk prices that is not justified by market movement and similar problems in pig farming. I know you're preparing for some reinforcement. You should, however, take into account not only the elements contained in the ARTEMIS programme, but the actual figures for farmers. Vegetables: You have also held a meeting. The market was disrupted because of the popular markets and all this weakness that producers had to promote their products and their little negotiating capacity to sell in the supermarkets. And of course, the potato thing. You know very well that at the moment, 0.13 to 0.18 minutes of the euro is being sold from the field and it is enough to sell at the stores of 1 euro - and that is, of course, a matter with which Mr Georgiadis should deal if he has time left for his ideological searches, and you should probably make more close cooperation with Mr. Georgiadis, Minister - at the same time that only 15% of the market is eating Greek potatoes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u61	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. You've been in five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u62	I'm done. Improvement plans: you have said so many times, a basic financial instrument for the development of the primary sector. As well as processing investments. In fact, you have recently joined twenty-five new acts, a total of 28 million in the Rural Development Programme. With this in mind from the written answer you gave on 7 May to eighty-five Members of three parties, given the greater flexibility in the amendment of the Rural Development Programme, the transfer of funds without restrictions, the expansion of eligibility with regard to the other European Union funds, given the clarification of the granting of national advances to OTA development projects to accelerate the LEADER projects and the increase in the percentage of the total overcompensation of the resources of the Rural Development Programme, with more investment I ask you this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Comrade, you've been in six minutes. It's too much time. You have your dentistry, too. That's three times a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, I am on the question. I ask you to interrupt me. But you interrupt me when my colleague spoke more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u65	I interrupted all of them. Mrs. Kafantari in her prototype...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, I shall end.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u67	Finish, Mr. Catherine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u68	Minister, I ask you what measures will you take as extraordinary aid or for the restoration of lost income for farmers and farmers in Elias and whether you will support measure 4.1.1 of the Rural Development Programme in order to include additional improvement plans and something similar to include more investment proposals from the LEADER programme. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u69	Minister, you have three minutes, with tolerance, of course, as this is quite a big matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, I will be in three minutes. And I'll explain why I'm staying in three minutes. The procedure for the topical and urgent questions is of this nature. It is not a general question. Ladies and gentlemen, as the Rules of Procedure know, they must focus on specific questions. The questions allowed under the Rules of Procedure are two and these questions will be answered. Now if anyone wants to come and open up the debate on the ELDR, the debate on the ELDR, the debate on research, the debate on all possible products, it is his right, but I will stay in what is laid down in the Rules of Procedure. The truth is that Mr Katrinis has very often demonstrated his sensitivity, ladies and gentlemen, to the issues of agricultural production and development, and we thank him for that, because he gives the opportunity for dialogue. I will go ahead and respond to a tip you left on the matter of time priority, so let me say it, in the flowering compensation, because most of the flower producers are in Attica, as you said. I guess you mean I'm dealing there, so I gave priority to that. I want to finish this because I don't like to hover. Priority, as you said, has nothing to do with my region. It has to do with the following two real facts. Two are the branches that we have really dealt with first: blooming and fishing, because they have completely closed the sales shops of flowers and bloomers. Therefore, these people suddenly had no access to the market. It is not the same as others who have access to the market, but who, for example, have disrupted for other reasons that we are going to discuss. This was therefore the reason for this, and also because it coincided in this period of time, that this sector would carry out 70% of its turnover. The same has happened with fishing. Fishing, due to the closure in the catering, had a real collapse of its sales. I come to the two issues which primarily concern Elias. For the strawberry, let me tell you that we've found a disturbance and we've had a meeting. I conclude and link my response to the next part concerning sheep and goatmeat. We have finished the work we are doing in terms of preparing the ovine and caprine dossier these days, and we will start working on the strawberry data immediately next week. But I'll say that and you know that. For some sectors it is important that we allow the overall trend to take place over the period. Because there may be a disturbance at a certain time, but it is then replaced because market conditions change. Because of the restrictive measures which exist, Mr President, these restrictive measures do not work on the market. The strawberry thus at a time had an increased disturbance and therefore showed reduced prices and reduced exports, while at this stage it actually shows increased prices, it has improved in price terms, but in a lesser volume of product, because production has been reduced for reasons of harvesting practices in the previous period. So there's a product disturbance. I tell you that immediately next week we will begin to study the range and height of this disorder. I can be quite analytic, but I don't have time. I will return to my dentext on the issues you have raised concerning the issues of the Community programmes, the Rural Development Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time and for the comprehensive reason. Mr. Katrin, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the problems obviously concern the entire industry, but I would like to confirm very briefly why I asked a targeted question about the Elias Prefecture. You know that on the basis of the latest survey by EUROSTAT, Elias is the first region of the European Union to specialise in rural areas and, therefore, to gross value added in terms of agricultural income. Furthermore, Elias is an area that has suffered damage due to olive oil and low price over the last two years over 80 million euros. And you know very well that a product like watermelon starts very well, but it also needs reinforcement and visibility to go even better abroad, with a view to increasing exports. With regard to the improvement plans - which is the issue of dentistry and I will do it a little more detailed - there have been two hundred and fifty-five plans, eighty-story proposals that meet the criteria, and I would like to remind you that seven out of ten proposals in Western Greece were from the Ilias Prefecture and that Western Greece is eighth in covering percentage of the thirteen regions and that the final budget is 69% more than the initial figure, which is less than all the five regions below the coverage sector. So what do we say? That Western Greece in the improvement plans is wronged and Elias, which is seen by the result that it may be the first time, deserves to adopt more improvement plans precisely because it is the first region in rural specialisation. This is also the case with the LEADER programmes for the processing of the primary sector that I know you want to strengthen, but this must be done and it needs almost EUR 6 million to enable these proposals to be integrated and completed. I have carefully read your public position on the terms and conditions - the one that took place on Sunday - which should support the sectors affected in the primary sector. I agree with you too much. I don't know if there's any financial tools and correct me if I'm wrong. There is Regulation 1305/2015 which is currently being amended and will enable the country to provide an additional EUR 48 million -1% of the Rural Development Programme - and this concerns five thousand individual and fifty thousand businesses, a 16 million euro crisis reserve, faster payment of a single advance payment and, of course, what Mr Georgiadis also advertised and I know that he has entered from the Ministry of Rural Development and the Guarantee Fund for small businesses and for the self-employed and individual farmers, with a total of EUR 2.25 billion, you carried 80 million there. I do not, however, know, Mr Minister, if we look at the outcome of TEIX II - in thirty thousand applications from how many potential beneficiaries the programme will be closed in three days - how many beneficiaries will really be, and in particular, the individual farmers who will try to deal with the problem of non-performing loans - 40% in the field of non-performing loans - will be able to access bank lending. So this concerns Elias and the products and farmers - which you know very well that I would like you to have a concrete answer to what rate of compensation will be for farmers -, horticultural and other products. It is, however, also a matter of the Ministry's priorities for redistributing and transferring the funds from the Rural Development Programme on the one hand, and if it is able to increase funds and not just internal redistribution. That is to leave the improvement plans, go to the special reserve, leave the special reserve and go to the Guarantee Fund. What is more reminiscent of an attempt at creative accounting. If there are possibilities, I would like a clear answer and what priorities and timetable for implementation will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u73	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. I must tell you, Mr President, that from the teleconference I have made with the strawberry producers - in fact it is an extremely dynamic crop, we believe it very much and we want to support it, it is the first time that it has suffered this difficulty and it is clear that it is linked to the restrictive measures because of the coronary - I was impressed by the level and degree of organization and professionalism shown by these producers. They are people who are well aware of their work, work and who are in the spirit and the philosophy that the Ministry of Rural Development would like to express at this stage in relation to crops: evaluation, standardisation, certification, high product quality. It's in this climate. That is why I tell you that we will do everything possible for the strawberries and what needs to be done to support its cultivation. We do the same with ovine and caprine animals. I'm telling you, we're done with our second meeting yesterday. There is one other meeting we are going to hold to the mechanism and I think that by Friday we will announce the amount by which we will compensate for the sheep and goat farming and the mechanism by which the sheep and goat farmers are to be compensated, which is a very important piece, our production, the livestock farming that we want to support. About the improvement plans now. You know that we have doubled the budget in the improvement plans. The original budget we have presented has doubled it. There is indeed a great deal of demand for the so-called 'LEADER' programmes, and the President is also very much concerned with the issues of primary production. We are all aware of this and are being mobilized in this direction. I think that the margins for increasing the budget are too limited for the improvement plans. I have to tell you the Rural Development Programme - in a sense at this point of view it is 'the victim of its success' - has run very well, it has very great absorption and the fact that it has too much absorption gives little room for movement. In other words, there are no funds that can be moved freely. We also want to use - and I say this clearly - the flexibility that I think is going to be provided to the forthcoming Council of Ministers for Rural Development which, in my assessment, will adopt a tool for transferring and supporting capital from our producers. It's these great 5,000 euros. Do not create a misunderstanding here, because I also hear various nonsense circulating from some of Parliament's wings, that it is 5,000 euros per farmer. If you do the account, there are six hundred fifty and six hundred thousand IACS-applicants, and that means that it's 3.5 billion if you do that. Therefore, these do not exist. It is clear that it concerns affected sectors and farmers affected. It is an additional flexibility, so that there is a measure within the Rural Development Programme to strengthen. So, on the one hand, there must be money to strengthen this measure, but we are making an effort - and I tell you from now on - which we may be able to save, to see what extent we will be able to transfer it to the Leader where there is indeed much increased demand and see what potential we have there. I can't tell you numbers because it's an exercise we're still doing. It is clear what is going on within the restrictive framework of the Rural Development Programme, which I say is very high absorbency, but we shall take all possible steps in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Minister. We are now going to Mr Kegeroglu's next question from the Change Movement. It is the third with number 5078/21-3-2020 question of the circle of petitions by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Support measures for farmers and farmers to deal with the effects of the coronary pandemic'. Mr. Vorides will answer. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Change Movement from the outset with a responsible attitude, not only with regard to health protection measures, but mainly with a view to restarting the economy, has been dealt with with proposals and positions that help create an effective plan for the least possible recession and the least impact on society. For the agricultural sector from the outset, we have tabled concrete proposals and believe that solutions can be found and that there are economic possibilities to ensure agricultural production, not only nutritional adequacy but also continuity. In this sense, we believe that a specific sectoral plan is needed to support both olive cultivation and winegrowing and the basic products to which the greenhouse gases are subject, and of course, the countryside. You referred earlier to the debate you had with my colleague, Mr Katrin, in certain sectors of the economy. Of course, all the available tools you have, whether they are a rural development programme, de minimis regulation, or anything else, must be exploited. It is true that the European Union is also slow, even though it has made decisions on flexibility and flexibility. Unfortunately, bureaucracy keeps good. We have, in fact, criticised the European Central Bank, Mrs Lagard, to the leaders of the European Union in this area. We therefore support the proposal of the winegrowers for crisis distillation, for the green bite, not only because it is green, but because it may need to be a solution. We support and demand that you activate your commitments, which have been too late, for the compensation of olive growers. What matters is not just that producers get money in their hands to survive them and their families, but to ensure the continuity of farming. Farming is not something that the producer pays back. It needs money in advance to invest in the growing season and, of course, for investments in the agricultural sector. So, in my first speech, I would like to stress the need to pay compensation for olive cultivation and, of course, the other damages suffered by farmers. However, olive oil is critical, because it is three years in a row, at least for Crete, which have damaged and now combined with the damage to tourism, which most have found employment there, will be very difficult. I also want to bring you back the proposal on the cash facility. What is a cash facility? OPEKEPE knows very well. If you request a suggestion from the president of OPECE, he will give you details of a project which can be implemented within one month. On the basis of the rights of each producer since last year, the Greek State, which through the Ministry of Rural Development is responsible and responsible for concluding a contract with a bank, pays through a cash facility of 50%, for example, of the right to grant. It is a guarantee of the producer itself. Then there will be a figure of 1%, 2%, 3% that we will need to have wrongly paid. That's another matter. We shall therefore say that the first issue is liquidity and the producer. Even crisis distillation, do you know when the winemakers will get money in their hands? In 2021. That's for sure. So you only have an opportunity at the cost of interest from June to October, to give 50% -60% of the subsidy to producers. 70% in October is retrospective. Excuse me, but it won't work. Look at it in collaboration with OPECE. Or if you've seen it, let us know. The second issue is a concrete proposal in relation to the use of 446 million. The 446 million will have to be used by the Ministry of Rural Development, which is the government's scoundrel. I see that you have indeed been marginalized. They haven't put you in the "game". The 446 million is the country's vindication of an nonsense of a SYRIZA strain. I have no problem mentioning her with her name. He was Vice President at the OPEKEPE, he had infiltrated through DIMAR in the 2013 government at the time and caused fine decisions for our country and loss of 8 million acres in relation to farmers and he comes afterward to justify our country. This right must go in favour of farmers and I shall table a specific proposal to you in my speech. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u77	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u78	I'll stay on the issues of Crete. Mr Colleague, I do indeed need to acknowledge your own interest and the methodical and persistent work you are doing to highlight the issues of Crete, but also the primary sector. But I must remind you of what I said about Crete when I had come down. I said that there would be a committee to look into the issue of the damage caused to olive oil, I said that I would give two million for the homicide and say that I would compensate for the damage that had been done to the greenhouse gases in the southern region of Chania, Kudura. Of all three, I've done all three. I gave two million to the homicide, compensated in a reasonable and fair way unsafe greenhouses in Kudura. The compensation was not complete, because it must not be complete when no one is insured. There's been a committee. The only issue to which there is one issue is the delay in the delivery of the Commission's findings, but it is due to the existence of the coronary and the failure to complete their meetings. I think, however, that this is also on the table. We'll finish and we'll have a picture. That's what I said about Crete in particular. I now come to what has been created, which concerns Crete. We have, in fact, identified a disturbance, which relates mainly to the cultivation of tomato and cucumber. Other products that come out in Crete, such as peppers, have gone well. There's still a little more to consider and deepen on the aubergine issue. We will see how we strengthen these two crops. In fact, to put them in time, the old crop ends, we will catch the strawberry and then we will deal with this crop. There's another issue left for Crete. It's probably not just for Crete. It is universal, but it also concerns Crete, because it has an important part of it, and that is the support of producers who trade in the people's markets or have been strengthened at a first level already, but by the Ministry of Development. We will see if there is any need for further assistance from the Ministry of Rural Development now. This is something that we are considering - I am clarifying - for producers of the people's market. They also have two categories of different impact within them, because there are those who have been banned from moving them - there we have a clear impact - but there are those who in any case have had an impact on them because of the reduced turnover of the people's markets because of the restrictive measures. That is the question of direct intervention. As far as the issues of the liquidity you referred to are concerned, I shall speak in my dentistry to keep up time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u79	Mr Minister, thank you very much for keeping time. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will focus on liquidity, since you said you would respond to your speech. We're not talking about free money here. We speak either of entitled persons or of available persons. They must be activated. The first thing we ask you to do is pay compensation. You're in the olive growing back. Leave it from the previous government, as I told you. You at least committed yourself to giving allowances. Let's see. The report has not yet been to the European Commission. Is that possible? We have scientific potential that can build the report within a week, and unfortunately you have three months. Indicate them if they have not done their job properly or we will resign you if you have been delayed. Secondly, the use of the regulations that have liquidity, such as the issue of crisis distillation, only has a delay in this, as I have explained to you, in order to get money to the producer. It is surely ensured that there is no congestion on the market. The market is being dismantled by crisis distillation. Greece is guaranteed the necessary product, which has to do with alcohol disinfectants, and we have a better management. The third issue is subsidies. Subsidies are entitled to producers. On the basis of what you are entitled to, pay only interest and give this money now in June. You can. We told you a month ago that you could in May. Now you can give them in fifteen days. It's simple. You don't even need an application. When he collects the money, he signs his commitment. Whenever he wants to collect the money - it's not compulsory - he will sign his commitment each one who gets it. Give it now in June. It is in the interests of agricultural production, in the interests of tackling the recession, for the benefit of the continued cultivation. More importantly, we are talking again about lending, about getting loans from farmers and producers. Loans to investment projects are even more necessary. He needs security. Guarantee within the Guarantee Fund, in general and vaguely, is lost. "They were eaten with cabbage" farmers and investors in the primary sector. Put "h", as they have done. There should be a separate account. I do not want to say now about a separate guarantee fund for investments in the agricultural sector. And that could happen. However, because the government as a whole considers the production of agricultural products to be 'discreet' and the Ministry and does not take care of you as much as I must - I have information to put forward this - it will have to review its policy on farmers and the agricultural sector. So we ask that the 446 million people from Europe come from Europe as a return to counting on us, go exclusively to a guarantee account for investments in the agricultural sector in order to guarantee liquidity in the primary sector, make investments and projects that are being promoted, be they improvement plans, be they other programmes of the Ministry of Rural Development, or are private investments in the agricultural sector that do not enter into programmes. There are those investors too. Let's give them the bailout tool, now that the 446 million are available. Of course, you should also see the question of the recovery of the acres, because we are not entitled to the courts only in terms of the money we receive. We were also entitled to what we did in 2009-2010 with the acres. The twenty-two million, if I remember well, are now available in total, because they had taken them down to fourteen, with the wrong interpretation they made. The interpretation has also been justified. So you should also see at this level how we make use of this decision which retrospectively vindicates us and condemns us, of course, also those people who have worked at the expense of the national economy, to the detriment of the Greek farmer and who have mug and speak today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u81	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Colleague, I'm listening to them. Of course, before I turn them to the committee, I would like to be fair to anyone I plead, and I cannot forsake people that they did not deliver at the speed, in fact, which we would expect to deliver a conclusion, while it is clear that they were taken from the coronary limitations and that they also have movements, because as you know the committee has an interregional character. In any case, I think this debate will be closed quickly and we will therefore have an image in order to move on. As far as crisis distillation is concerned, it is true that wine has already been affected and has been severely affected. He has a very important disorder and a reduction. We must make use of the specific possibilities of the regulation. We've had a conversation. We're in a process of using it. But I want to say something about that, so we can all be informed. The amounts which the regulation now provides for are limited. It therefore needs - and this is a debate that is already taking place at European Union level - a temporary regulation to deal with this situation in order to support our wine production. The effects on wine production are also different. High quality red wines can be kept without impact, do not lose their value. High quality white wines cannot be kept because they lose their value. So there is already an issue here which needs to be addressed. Less good-quality wine can enter the crisis distillation process, be strengthened by amounts and naturally also take the value of alcohol. This will, above all, allow us to shape the Treaty on breeding so that there is no problem with the harvesting and that the problem with wine growers is not transferred. So it is clear here that this is what is going to happen and we will do it and we are in the process to move on with this situation. I would like to congratulate you in a sense, because you have been extremely careful and have not been lured into the nonsense I hear from the SYRIZA side about the question of the reimbursement of money. I wanted to know: in this party no human beings - have they made Ministers for Rural Development - are there not to tell them what these sums are that we have actually earned with methodical and hard work? I must again congratulate the people of the State Legal Council on the work they have done on scientific, substantiated, which actually leads to the return of fines. It is not money that has been given by these producers. They are fines paid by the Treasury. The Ministry of Finance paid these amounts from the budget, and now these amounts are obviously back to the one who paid them, i.e. the Ministry of Finance. It was not even the budget of the Ministry of Rural Development. It's all about you. You say that because it results from a correct interpretation of the method of calculation of pastures, it is a matter of politically speaking speaking - they must be used to support the budget of the Ministry of Rural Development. This is a debate of a different nature. But I hear things that are unthinkable. I hear that they have to be given - that is what they are told - to the farmers. We'll prepare to give the farmers half a billion, says SYRIZA. So these non-serious things, how indeed this success, which strengthens the budget at a difficult time, we will use it, is an issue that we will discuss intra-governmently. I shall refer to the other issues and I shall conclude. I extended my time. Unfortunately, Mr Kegeroglu has taken me to the point of time. Very quickly, on the question of strengthening liquidity, Mr Kegeroglu, we are already in discussion with the banks to see what potential is being given. But I have to tell you something else. In my opinion, it has not been closed - I am intuitively speaking, I might not have the right to do so - to discuss the question of the time when aid is paid by the European Commission. I know that too many states, almost everything, are calling for the speed of payment. So here we are in an open debate. We'll see the possibilities too. Why do I say that, Mr. Kegeroglu? Because bringing forward funding is not without cost. It's a interest cost. So if I'm going to wait a little while to make a decision, which will be favourable to save the interest, I'll wait a little bit. I'm saying that so we can be clear about this. Because there is such a debate within the European Union, I once again tell you that we are watching it closely, working with the banks, we will see what can be done from this side. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that on 8 May 2020 the Minister of Justice forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 - it is the Law on Responsibility of Ministers, as is the case - criminal case against former Minister of National Defence Evangelos Apostolakis and former Deputy Minister of National Defence Panagiotis King. We are now entering the second debate under number 686/11-5-2020 on a topical question by MP II Piraeus, the Radical Left Coalition, Tryphoon Alexiadis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Definition of the Director-General for Economic Crime Corps". Mr Alexiadis's timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vesyropoulos. Mr. Alexiadis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I had tabled the question at the end of January - on 21 January - and I thought that the time that has elapsed since then and because of the more general developments, but also because of my personal adventures, it did not make it necessary to discuss the current question. But, looking back at the loose ends, I saw that the whole thing remains a problem. And what's that about in two words? In July 2019, ready for you to understand the authority and with a programme to address the issues, you announced that you will create the Final State, which would not have the responsibility of political leaders - such as, for example, in the position of Special Secretary of the ILO, or in other areas - but would replace them with other officials from the public sector, with directors-general. So far this issue has not been resolved. I found that despite the announcements from July 2019, it has not been appointed Director-General at the ILO and the procedures have not been opened - from what I have seen, if anything else, to be informed - about the definition of the Director-General. I have therefore retabled the question and raised this debate, because for us, Minister, the issue of the Director-General of the ILO is very important. And it is very important, Minister, because this House, which is the head of the spearhead of tax mechanisms and other control procedures, has a serious subject and needs to be strengthened. The absence, therefore, of either a special secretary specifically for the ILO, or a Director-General, creates problems. And our anxiety is how this process will proceed and the work of the ILO will be made more effective. Otherwise, because, at the very moment I am here, I have heard a lot of debates, it is good at some point, at the initiative of the government, to have a debate on economic policy issues and the rest of them and to hear your planning for the issues of smuggling and tax evasion, in which the ILO is also in charge, to see your overall planning, because we have so far not seen it. I conclude with one sentence: The economic and social crisis that comes before us - because the health crisis in one way or another ends - requires public revenue to be strengthened. And they need to be strengthened not by ordinary mortgages, but, as the Constitution says, by 'have and possessors'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr Alexiadis, for keeping time. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, the government has and has clearly intended to strengthen the control mechanisms. Those who have dictated that we would abolish the ILO have been disproved. On the contrary, we move on to strengthen and dismantle the ILO by abolishing the post of the retired Head of General or Special Secretary in order to obtain the IEA full and absolute independence, free of any kind of political or party intervention. I would like to inform you that by the provisions of Article 45 of Law 4674/2020, published in the FEK on 11 March 2020, the provisions of the Staff Code relating to the selection of Heads of Organic Units have been amended. Therefore, a notice will shortly be issued to fulfil the position of Head of the General Directorate of the Appeal Corps of the General Secretariat for Tax Policy and Public Property of the Ministry of Finance. Any delay is partly due to the exceptional circumstances caused by the occurrence and spread of the COVID -19 coronary, but mainly because of the new data resulting from the change of the institutional framework following the amendment of the provisions of the Staff Code. This is a large section that ensures the absolute and complete independence of the Economic Crime Corps. From there on, I should remind you that during your government's term of office on 4 December 2017, the Heads of Organic Units of the former Special Secretariat of the ILO were placed in office by decision of the then Minister of Finance. I am presenting for the Minutes the relevant decision, which essentially placed heads of the ILO by a unilateral decision of the Minister of Finance. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Veyropoulos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Such practices are inconsistent with ensuring the independence of the IORP. In addition, the notice on the fulfilment of the address and subsistence responsibility positions of the Ministry of Finance was issued with a great delay on 15 June 2018. I am presenting for the Minutes and the specific notice. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Veyropoulos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned notice, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And it wasn't the only delay. From there on, it took almost a whole year to post the final tables from the selection board of heads and actually took you four and a half years to proceed with the process. And you are coming today and you are leaving our Government, which in just ten months has carried out reforms of the Public Service Code and at the same time completes the process that you have never been able to complete, although you have had plenty of time at your disposal. And "you" is not a personal peak, Mr Alexiadis. You, after all, haven't been in the government since November 2016. You were replaced. Responsibility lies entirely with the governance of the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time. Mr. Alexiadis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the good news of the day and the news of the day is that you will present a plan to strengthen the tax mechanisms and the ILO. We will be here to monitor you parliamentaryly, to support what is positive, as we do on many other issues. But be sure that the honeymoon has spent a long time on the government. Now the story of the coronary is over and you have to prove that you have a plan. And especially on the issue of the Ministry of Finance you have to prove that there is planning on smuggling and tax evasion issues. I'm stressing this again. But I understand your statement today as a promise, which we will be following in the next few years. In relation to the denial of my declaration that the ILO has been abolished, and because we have also publicly disputed this issue, we do not need to be sad. We've known each other for many years. We do not need to be upset because either you have the alpha or the beta view, there is the presidential decree, published in the Official Journal of the Government, signed by the President of the Republic, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and many others. It is e.g. 84, Article 1(2), which lays down within, inter alia, that ‘The Special Secretariat of the House of Appeal for Economic Crime and the corresponding positions of the General Sectoral and Special Sectoral Secretary shall be repealed’. This is what you have rushed to do, while you have competent officials in the Ministry of Finance - from your own political space, it doesn't have to be from another political area - and you could keep this position, do the IMO work, coordinate it better, work it out and move on. Because you have also referred to the question of the independence of the ILO and there have been implied for party or political interventions, I would like to say: Fortunately in this country there is a political past, not for you or Alexiadis personally, but for the political bodies that we are to be. He remembers and knows the world, and especially the workers in the Ministry of Finance, what party and political interventions were in the New Democracy Governments, who had come to become headlines and even reach resignations or dismissals, and what SYRIZA did. In my own government term - I do not deprive myself of responsibility as SYRIZA's executive in other periods - there was not a single post for party intervention or favourable treatment either as an entrepreneur or any official, precisely because it was always in my understanding that tax mechanisms and in general public administration should operate without party or political intervention. I am waiting for your actions to see if you will follow the New Democracy policy before 2014 or if you will do anything different now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u89	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u90	Mr Colleague, because you have experience and because you know that what I say is documentary, I would expect you to be more careful. You received a notice on the address and subdirection positions of the Ministry of Finance in June 2018 and you posted the tables one year later. On the contrary, we have promoted changes that guarantee dignity and continued the process. The first of these was already placed and, in fact, on the basis of a notice issued by your government, but it has never been unjustifiedly completed. More locations will follow. As I said, there will immediately be a General Manager's post. From that point on, everyone knows that the previous government was the one that weakened and degraded the ILO. Would you like me to remind you what exactly your government voted for with Law No.4336/2015, and in particular Article 2(4), subparagraph D7 thereof? First, from 30-10-2015 all the responsibilities and tasks related to tax and customs matters have been transferred from the Special Secretariat of the ILO to the General Secretariat of Public Revenue. Secondly, the first subparagraph of that provision states that ‘the existing organic positions of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue shall be carried out by five hundred organic positions of the Special Secretariat of the ILO Secretariat, which shall be covered by the staff serving in the Special Secretariat of the ILO’. Thirdly, in the second subparagraph, you voted for a provision, which states that ‘by means of accreditation acts of the Minister of Finance, which will be issued up to 20-9-2015, the technical infrastructure and the physical and magnetic records of the cases pending before the courts and the cases to be transferred to the General Secretariat of Public Revenue relating to responsibilities for tax and customs matters and necessary credits for covering the public Revenues transferred to the General Secretariat of the General Secretariat of the Public Revenues in Case (a) of this Subsection’. In other words, not only have you weakened the ILO, but you have also undermined its function and independence. I would also remind you that the then Special Secretary of the ILO, Mr Danis, had sent a letter to the then Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, to warn him that, through these provisions, which weakened the IEA, he was effectively canceling the work done with checks on the specific cases that would bring public revenue. You cannot, therefore, appear as invoices, especially when there are evidence for the period of your administration that exposes you. On the contrary, the Government of the New Democracy and the Kyriakos Mitsotakis strengthens the ILO and gives it full and absolute independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, too. We are entering the last timely question. It is the first with number 676/11-5-2020 appropriate question of the Second Cycle of the MP Drama of the Change Movement Mr. Charulas (Charas) Kefalidou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: “Who is the real picture in the schools a week after opening?” Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. I wish good strength to all of us now that we are slowly entering a parliamentary normality. The fact is that we are lucky to be able to move on with relative security on the next day after the country's lockdown. We all agree that nothing will be easy. Schools are gradually reopening and this is a difficult crack test and we must at all costs get out of the winners, not for the government, but for the entire Greek society, for this huge excess that we have all done. And while we are in the middle of this great national effort, on Friday afternoon it is announced how the schools will operate Monday by the Minister. And you do so with a late amendment to an irrelevant bill from the Ministry of Migration Policy. Weeks before you said there is a plan, we are ready and finally the plan is the live retransmission of a class course to involve students who cannot have a physical presence in the course. Regardless of whether anyone agrees or disagrees, let's see practically what you say: First of all, you say that the Minister for Education has the legislative authority to regulate all the matters necessary for the application of the provision in general and in vague terms. How much constitutionally intolerable is this when Article 43(2) of the Constitution provides the President of the Republic? And what are these necessary issues that leaves it unregulated? Let's see. They are issues of the essential, technical and organisational way of ensuring the protection of the personal data of minors exposed to cameras, without any provision for the protection of rights and teachers at the time of their work. The amendment itself calls for the prior adoption of a ministerial decision on the implementation of live retransmission. The Ministerial Decision, however, is adopted following an assessment of the impact of the processing on the protection of personal data pursuant to Article 4264/2019. Do you have these? Therefore, until the Ministerial Decision is adopted, the legislation cannot be implemented. Nevertheless, the Ministry's leadership throughout the weekend through televisions, radios, social media informed us that the live transmission of the course and was voted and started. Madam Minister, this legislative regulation, namely the amendment that we voted literally at night, came without any consultation at all. And I'll tell you something. The informal telephone conference in no rule of law can be baptized in consultation with the institutional concept of the term. There was no prior approval by the Personal Data Protection Authority, and, unfortunately, it was inaccurately announced by members of the Government that there was this approval, without any annex to the specification, restrictions and instructions to the relevant directorates to implement this initiative without the recommendation of the relevant Scientific Committee. We want to know who suggested that there can be a live relay of the lesson in order, because in the amendment you have not tabled - do you consider it unnecessary? - and, finally, without legal constitutionality investigation, we say. Listen, Minister. You know very well that in order for a child to participate in a school walk, to be photographed, to have a picture of a commemorative memorial from an event or even to video the graduation ceremony is required and the previous approval of the guardian is received and we cannot say so uncertainly that there is nothing wrong with the live transmission of a course in the presence of minor students. We gave you time. We expected that at the beginning of the week you would restore the omissions. You are a law-approved person beyond all doubt and it is not possible to give you any thought that the amendment you have proposed creates problems and that there are legal requirements and limitations. Observation of any constitutional rules in the name of the urgency is not forgiven. The state itself cannot falsify itself by breaking procedures to cut off the road and boast it. We gave you time. We are fully aware of the difficulties faced by the state machine. We have given you time to use the valuable tools of the digital age for the benefit of both the educational community and especially the students. We gave you time to see how the school can function after two months of closure and cover the students’ gaps. And despite the triumph about distance - which no one doubts was doing a very important job - there are shortcomings, there are weaknesses in teleconference monitoring and much of the student community was unable to cover this distance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u93	Finish it, my colleague. Two minutes have become five and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u94	So today we want you to give us answers on what is the real picture in schools of hygiene measures and learning progress, what are the deficiencies in logistics infrastructures and how they have been covered. What is the percentage of school units performing live streaming? And because there is an e-mail I have sent to you and to the thirteen regional directorates for these reasons, I would like to tell you that there is no answer outside of a regional management. Finally, I would ask you, Minister, if you are ready, to submit to Parliament today the opinion of the Privacy Authority, as well as the standards of relay - real time of relay - of the order course, so that we do not remain with a question of the existence, legality and vagueness of the general and vague consultation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u95	Madam Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the question. I must admit that I am a little lost, because other things I have received in your written question, Mrs Kefalidou, but you have said in your oral version. But I'll answer everything. I shall immediately begin by giving answers to the specific questions you have raised and to your written question. You ask, what is the real picture of the opening of schools? Sanitary measures: With care of the Ministry of Education antiseptics have been sent to every class that operates. The fragments are at least one and a half meters away. The students are rotating up to a maximum of fifteen people each day. All of this is in line with the expert's instructions. ETH instructions prepared in collaboration with the Ministry of Education have been sent to all teachers, education managers, students, parents, to all members of the educational community. Monday's opening devoted an important part of it to explaining these directives. Separate breaks have been planned to reduce precisely the coexistence between students. Cleaning is foreseen at least twice a day, banning cages, special permission for teachers and students. All this, Mrs Kefalidou, has been predicted for a long time now, too long, has been announced in the public debate, the relevant acts have been adopted for a long time. So I don't understand what you're saying we weren't ready. At all events, I think it proved to the extent that all the preparations had been made. Secondly, you are asking about participation. From 6 May, when teachers returned to school units, they missed leave - including special leave due to persons at increased risk - only 1.3% to 2.5%, from Wednesday to Monday. Also, based on the data we have so far, the III students have returned to an average of 60%. The second question is whether there have been any deficiencies in logistical infrastructure and equipment. If you mean cleanliness and personal hygiene materials, no shortcomings have been detected at the moment. In addition to the obligation of the municipalities to equip schools with all necessary equipment, the Ministry sent additional antiseptics for each class and sent a second dose of antiseptics to schools. The school committees, however, those responsible for equipment for cleaning and other consumables, obviously, are also doing their duty through the municipalities for all consumables, all the materials that schools need, including antiseptics. Thirdly, you ask whether distance education is continuing asynchronous and modern. Of course, it continues in the structures that are still suspended. Fourthly, with regard to the percentage of school units throughout the territory where a real-time retransmission takes place, I suppose you asked why you expected the timely question to be answered later. The necessary regulatory instrument is to be adopted to implement the provision adopted for the possibility for children who are staying at home - why are they staying at home? Because they have a family member who belongs to an increased risk group - to be able to have a right to education. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I am going to come back in detail, as you have been particularly broadly extended - although it was outside your timeliness - on this issue, because there is obviously a lot of misinformation. But I would also like to dwell on a few points of your question, Mrs Kefalidou. You say that for the way the schools are reopened by the end of the teaching year, huge gaps and ambiguities remain. Please tell us what these huge gaps and ambiguities are. At the same time, however, you are saying - and rightly so - that we have proceeded with the gradual reopening of schools on the basis of the structure of the departmental system and in accordance with the EGE directives. Indeed, despite the unprecedented circumstances, we are moving towards a coordinated de-escalation plan, always on the basis of the expert directives. You refer, my colleague, to a divided society, to a split-out trigger. What society - I ask - is it divided? What, in its vast majority, shows confidence in the government and the experts and indeed in such unfavourable circumstances? The society that responded, Mrs Kefalidou, with moving warmth in such tough measures that we can all - I stress it, all of us - feel safer? Does a section of Antipoliticism trigger division, sell to populism, invest in fear, hunger the reasonable concern of everyone about the gradual return to normality? Let us not deceive a national effort that, with sacrifices - both individual and collective - has enabled us to significantly alleviate the consequences of this unprecedented crisis. With respect, Mr President, time and procedure, I return to my dentistry and with more information, and with regard to teletext.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u97	Good. Here, Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, I have listened very carefully. It's a fact that we're in the first week. Basically, schools have been opened on Monday. There is an unambiguous picture of the attendance of the students, because you know very well that the first days are days where unfinished days are arranged, applications to participate in the pan-Hellenic exams are completed. That is why we will also come back to this picture that we want to have from the participation of children, so that we can see how, in the end, all this effort is fruitful. You realise - and I think - that you have no answer today as regards the legislature with which you are starting to open up schools. You say you will answer later on for the possibility of live streaming, while schools have started on Monday. And I ask you: Children who since Monday have been staying at their home and who do not have the opportunity to live streaming - who you have chosen - to attend the educational process, how are they kept in touch with this whole class process? So you have not kept the elementary legislation, nor after a celebration, and your time has been given you. And I will tell you that unfortunately for you, the Personal Data Protection Authority, which last night after the meeting with the Teacher Federation, felt it necessary to draw up a press release - I will submit it in the Minutes - from which - what is happening? - it turns out there was never a consultation. So what does the Authority point out to you? He points out to you and tells you everything you should have done, all the preconditions that you ignored them - with which schools should have started. So he tells you that there is no impact study. It highlights the high risk that the processing of the rights and freedoms of minors will cause. He tells you that the controller - in this case the Ministry, when talking about public schools - has to consult the authority before the start of processing, on the basis of Article 36 of the General Data Protection Regulation. What of this was all you, Minister, before you brought up the popular live streaming of the course? Where are the specifications? Where's the transmission? Where's the camera use? Where's the way to be relayed, so that there's a fair use? I imagine that when you do the impact study well, all the traits of the student performance during the course are there by the teacher will be excluded from the live relay. I also imagine that any comments from students about their classmates or the professor will be excluded, because class is a living environment, interactive. Also, I hope that you will have arranged live relay for the logistics infrastructure in each class. You need Wi-Fi, you need high speeds for live streaming, our schools don't have these infrastructures. Finally, it is understood that the teaching staff must have been trained and trained for the necessary teaching, in the event of a camera and live course retransmission, and it is understood that before the application of the measure you will have given a prior mandate to ensure the necessary approval of the students' parents. Or not? So all that is important to us is basic rules. Basic rules for safeguarding the legitimacy, constitutional protection of inadmissibility, sensitive personal data of freedom of speech and the principle of proportionality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, you could certainly have avoided all this, the displeasure that exists in the educational community, in a large number of parents and in a large number of children, the question of the Ministry's own intentions by political parties, if you were simply operating together, coordinatedly and on the basis of a clear plan that you had to have in place since the end of March with the notification of your choices and with dialogue with all the parties involved. After all, this is our democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u99	Please finish, Mrs. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, this is a very serious matter. So please give me a minute more and thank you in advance for the tolerance. You have therefore chosen the path of the sudden legislature and the announcement of the immediate application of a measure that must at least have complied with all the necessary legal procedures. Nobody wants, Minister, and you know, to stay behind a single student, because the creation of different speed pupils is something that we find in front of us in the next school year. So call on you to find the most appropriate way to avoid the children not participating in the classroom being left behind. And your choice of any solution should be within the legal framework. We suggest that you use remotely asynchronous. However, what you have done to date with the amendment you must know that they are extremely precarious for children's rights and you should have already made provision for the removal of risks before you go ahead. Which other country is this, Minister? So we in the Change Movement would like to tell you that we are the first to bring the digital school and embraced the possibilities of the digital era in the educational process. We will not be the ones to keep the Greek school in the era of blackboard and chalk. That's what others do. We have made big and very bold decisions at risk and cost. You again desecrated, unprotected and unprepared that have a huge risk, but doubtful effect. But they manage to divide society. More importantly, they put the national effort at risk to restore citizens' confidence in the state. Because no matter how good the Ministry's intentions are, the purpose cannot justify the means, it cannot bless omissions which despise democratic processes and ultimately the citizens themselves. That is why you are looking at this initiative. Unfortunately, in our country it continues to play this black-white. There are doubles and there are exemptions: Or is the ESS with skates or are the doctors of first line heroes. Either teachers are bored or precious teachers of our children. Let's decide! They are the same people, who every time it suits them, we put them on the ground and when the time of need comes, and they are there in their place and they do their job, then we bring them up to the highest ground. Well, that's not how it works. It is true that it is necessary and does not exist in all the same quality, the same speed, the same adequacy. And that is where our regulatory role, the role of the state, ensure the way, give control so that we can function properly, improve constantly, meet the requirements of the time. And because there is a great concern about what is going on with the children who are staying at home, what I really want you to tell us before the minister - which you say will be late - is what your alternative is, what plan will you do with which teachers when they work in the morning anyway in their ranks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u101	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, Mrs. Kefalidou, I don't know if you had prepared your speech beforehand, but you said that you had an unspecified image of participation. But I gave you some specific evidence. No unspecified picture. We talked about society in general. Let us, in particular, come to the educational community that, as you well know, has overcome all expectations by embraceing distance education. Approximately ten million students have participated in digital classes, hundreds of thirteen thousand teachers have created their personal digital class, over a million students and nearly two hundred thousand teachers have been enrolled in the Greek school network. A hundred and fifty thousand children are attending educational television daily, while more than 96% of courses at universities are normally held by teleconferencing. But I would remind you, my dear fellow Member, that remote education has been strongly condemned by opposition and trade unions with one mouth, a voice in absolute sympathy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u103	Don't put us on them!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u104	Mrs. Kefalidou, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u105	There are our papers. There will be no distortion!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u106	Mrs Kefalidou, this is the procedure of parliamentary control! You're asking, is the Minister answering, there's a second one, and so on. Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, I would remind you that remote education has been strongly condemned by opposition and trade unions with one mouth, a voice in an absolute consensus, saying that it cannot produce substantial results, that it is pedagogically inappropriate for minors...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u108	You're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u109	I'll come to the Change Movement in particular. And I keep going. They also said that for us the communication projection of showing how we do something is dominated, that there is no internet connection, while they did not want the free benefits of the companies we secured, so that everyone has access, without any charge, to the platforms used by the Ministry. And I come to the Change Movement. The Change Movement denounced in March that in our country there is a lot of delay in relation to other countries in technological learning and human resources, that the inability of a teleconference - are the words of the Change Movement, are words and I am at your disposal to give you the statements - among teachers, among students and teachers it is a vacancy in the announcement of modern distance learning - these are the words of your party, Mrs Kefalidou - that it is a big issue that is zero education for distance platforms and that if this familiarity is easier for students, it is very difficult for parents and young children. Why did this devaluation of all the factors of the educational process, which not only have been able to make it through a record time, but which has proved that our country is in no way inferior to others, on the contrary also to technology and to learning and how much more to human resources? Our teachers have demonstrated that they want and can provide a solution with always the interests of children in their minds and hearts. If we were to listen to Cassandras from the beginning of this crisis, from which we immediately rushed into unfavourable conditions to create an entire system of distance learning...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u110	Listen to the experts, the Privacy Authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u111	Mrs. Kefalidou, let me. I listened very carefully. If we were to listen to these Cassandras, then today we would not have thirty - six million minutes of modern telephony courses. We would not have given our children the opportunity to make use of the two months we were in suspension by living the educational structures in order to maintain close contact with the educational process. If we had heard of these Cassandras, we would not have launched for our schools more than 12 million euros in equipment from the ESDP and 3 million euros in equipment from donations. We would not have guaranteed free access to the educational platforms by mobile operators. We wouldn't have developed the same digital infrastructure as the Ministry. Difficulties were in this exercise and trials large. But that's our difference, Mrs. Kefalidou. We see these difficulties as a challenge to improve public provision, constantly trying to improve public provision for citizens. We have therefore chosen not to have a sterile confrontation with the forces of denial, the desecration of every effort, with those who were in their hands, our children would remain in an educational inappropriate situation, our children would remain in the dark during the two months of suspension of function. And I come to your question about the opinion and the feedback specifications in real-time course, class, regarding the Privacy Authority. Mrs Kefalidou, when the state provides for the possibility for some students to stay out of school for preventive reasons of individual health and public health, it is also a self-evident obligation for the state - I stress it, self-evident! - to ensure that these pupils have access to the distance learning process. Two days now we have witnessed a trial of intent. Why? Because we believe it is our duty to ensure the right to education, and for these children to whom we give the opportunity to stay at home to protect all of us, public health. And despite the disinformation campaign - in which I find it very regrettable that you are also involved - yesterday the Personal Character Data Protection Authority - I wonder whether we read another press release, I have it here in front of me, I wonder whether it is different - he clearly said that the purpose of the processing is legal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u112	The purpose. What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u113	Did you say that? I didn't hear it. It's a legitimate cause.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u114	Mrs. Kefalidou, please. You've spoken for fourteen minutes and no one interrupted you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u115	It's the Ministry's proposal, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u116	Oh, obviously you're now saying it exists. Because I heard the order is illegal, it's one, it's the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u117	You don't have any conditions!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u118	Mrs. Kefalidou, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u119	So the beginning came out yesterday and what did he say? That it is legal the purpose of this particular processing, of the simultaneous teaching of students with a natural presence...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u120	The cause! You're legal, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u121	...and other students using the method of distance learning, as provided for in the recent legislation. First, then, it's legal. I have not heard that from your words at all. I imagine you think it's important.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u122	The purpose.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u123	Second, it says clearly...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u124	Mrs. Kefalidou, instead of five minutes you spoke for fourteen minutes. Nobody interrupted you. That's an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u125	Sure, I can hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u126	Mrs. Kefalidou, I understand that this communication has caused a disturbance because it has shown to what extent there is falsification and misinformation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u127	I'm sorry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u128	So this press release, which says...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u129	Madam Secretary, excuse me. Mrs Kefalidou, this is the procedure for parliamentary scrutiny. That's her and everyone's judged.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u130	You're right, Mr. President. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u131	Please don't interrupt. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u132	So the principle - despite the disinformation campaign - came out and said two things about the substance: First, he said that the purpose of this provision, namely the simultaneous teaching of pupils with a physical presence and other pupils by means of distance learning, as provided for in the arrangement, is legitimate. He also said something else. What did I say here from the House? That for the formation we had consulted at the beginning. So the press release came in and said exactly that, that there was a specific advisory recommendation from the authority, and said that the comments were incorporated. Indeed, we have incorporated observations from the Privacy Authority of a personal data protection nature. After the Authority’s announcement yesterday, some people are recognizing new defences and trying to continue the misinformation, saying that we are supposed to be back. So I'm delivering it. Not a step back! We are moving on, as we have started, to defend the public interest and yes, we have already predicted, Mrs Kefalidou, the whole context in every detail. I close with this: we do what we consider to be our duty and always taking care to protect all members of the educational community. We provide for this possibility for our homeless children to also have the right to education in these exceptional circumstances that we live in, to be able to digitally connect to their class and not to be cut off from the educational process because they are protecting public health as a whole. I would like to ask, however, what exactly do you propose, Mrs Kefalidou and your party? And the question, obviously, is addressed to all opposition parties and others who voted against or opposed this arrangement. What do you say to the students who live at home because the grandparent or grandma who lives with them may belong to an increased-risk group and want to protect them? These children, Mrs. Kefalidou, don't have the right to education? Well, we will fight to ensure that everyone is entitled to education. Let us finally look ahead to the interests of our children! We will not let micro-political and trade union interests stand in the way of the progress of our children. We won't make any discounts in defending the public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, too. We had a little intense dialogue, but that is parliamentaryism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, after thanking all the honourable Members and the ministers, the topical and urgent debate has been concluded. I would like to ask the House: do you accept this point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-13-S1-commons.u136	With the agreement of the House at 11.50 minutes the sitting will be closed tomorrow, Thursday 14 May 2020 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
