ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the following: "We hereby inform you of the topical and urgent questions raised in the context of the parliamentary scrutiny on Monday, 10 February 2020 that the question will be discussed under No 451/30-1-2020 by MP B1' North Athens Division of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "The new contract between the Greek Government and UNICEF". It will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis. Following the consultation of the relevant ministers and MPs, the question will not be discussed under number 471/4-2-2020 in the Western Athens Department of Athens, Mer25 Mr. Kritona Arseni, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: 'No provision in the system of appointments of educational staff'. Also, we will not discuss the 452/30-1-2020 topical question by MP Larissa of the Change Movement, Evangelia Lykoulis, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Musicing and reopening of the Centre for Environmental Education (CEP) Kissavos - Montenegro as an independent Centre for Environmental Education". We move immediately to the debate of the first under number 451/30-1-2020 in the first cycle of MP B1' North Athens Sector of the Change Movement Mr.Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on "The new contract between the Greek Government and UNICEF". Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I have dealt with the UNICEF issue for a long time now. I have followed the adventure that the National Commission had in previous years and I have, in fact, been disappointed by the fact that this useful institution has been abolished. Anyone who does not know whether it is important to raise money to help children is inconsistent with this subject and we hear them vervesse! So when this adventure became known and began after a process of normalisation of our relations with UNICEF, namely the United Nations, we were pleased that Mr Bolares' move to call for the relationship to be reactivated, was a good move. But his suggestion that the National Commission should not be re-established, but that this relationship should work through this UNICEF office was not the right choice. I do not know if the State Secretary then proposed this as an interim solution, but the final solution to this level is inadequate. It is also inadequate for operational reasons, understandable, but also symbolic. I am writing to my question that from the Member States of the European Union only Croatia has such an affair. If we had worked at a better level in terms of time, the topical question might not have been made in its place to be a more specific, written question, that is to say, a second question. I tabled my question on 28 November and the Minister's reply had already been delayed, it came a month later. So, Mr Varvitsiotis, by addressing you today in this debate the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, please tell me why the Ministry insists on the choice of Mr Bolaris, that UNICEF in Greece be run through a office that defines a partnership and that we should not ask for the National Commission to be set up again, which really deserves the quality of Greece as a country which is militant in this effort, but also does not involve functional weaknesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u3	Minister Varvichiotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, the question of what presence UNICEF will have in Greece is not the Greek Government, but UNICEF itself. She decides whether she will have a representation office or another presence in the country. This is the final body. Unfortunately, for reasons which are not in the context of today's debate, the National Committee for UNICEF has closed down and has done so at the expense of scandals and mismanagement. You can understand that, Mr President, this has created a greater doubt in the organization as to how it can function in Greece and how. Anyway, despite the pressures of the previous government, UNICEF decided to acquire a representation office here in the country where all the conditions and conditions were given to operate well and efficiently. As far as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is concerned, I would like to tell you, because you are asking us that we have exchanged letters with UNICEF, with which we grant privileges to it, that equipment and other materials, imported from UNICEF, will be exempt from import duties and taxes - and export duties if they are exported. Purchases made by UNICEF in Greece will be exempted from VAT, the grants made to UNICEF and, of course, the UNICEF staff working in Greece will be exempted from the visa fee. This is all done. With regard to the frugality of the answer, as you say by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, at least the written reply by the Minister, Mr Tyres, to your previous question - I do not know in your hands when he arrived - has a date of 13 December. The question was tabled on 28 November. I do not think it has even exceeded the margin provided for by the parliamentary procedures - and with the slight tolerance that Members always give - on a subject which I would not say is so urgent. I would then like to give you some historical correspondence, which shows that the UNICEF authorities themselves have dealt with the previous government's proposal to re-establish the office. This also provided for the use of the staff at the office, which was closed and in which all these scandals we had said about mismanagement and corruption were involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u5	Thank you. Mr. Loverdos has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, I started the debate on this issue on the healthier basis and without any opposition. Mr Varvitsiotis, the debate on irregularities is a debate which is not about you or your party, but about conflicts of the past, which concern in particular SYRIZA and PASOK. So you have no reason to meddle and embrace conflicts that do not concern your party. However, the common objective - I imagine - of all today, in relation to the protection of children is to try to better organise the institutional international shell around this action. The international institutional shell on this action is provided by the United Nations and UNICEF and, beyond that, by the countries of the civilized world, by the National Committees. This creates the full restoration of our relations with UNICEF and the United Nations. The awkwardness of overcoming conflict justifies conscientiousness. I'm the first to accept that. However, to lead to a relationship which - I repeat - concerns countries which do not belong to the Western civilization that we do not belong to, and which relates to original relations for the area of Europe - and the number of countries that have such relations, when it is a single case, I think it is a revealing thing what I ask - make me do this form of parliamentary control of a creative nature. Before addressing the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I had addressed the Ministry of Labour because Mrs Michailidou is responsible for a special UNICEF action in relation to unaccompanied children. That is where we understood, those of us at that meeting, that if a ministry is competent to resolve the matter from the outset, it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The fact that Mr Bollaris had begun these efforts shows that there is indeed the institutional place for discussion on a worthwhile basis rather than on the basis of political and party conflicts, because this is what this is about. If we had the ability and luxury to revert a little backwards into the past, you'd understand exactly what I mean. We're talking about jokes. But, in any case, I call on your Ministry, and with my speech today in this House, to review its position, to consider to what extent there is in general any possibility of re-establishing a decent relationship with UNICEF and to take all necessary steps.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u8	With Mr Loverdos' good suggestion, because before he started the story of questions he had expressed his interest orally, I think it is clear that both with UNICEF and the Red Cross, which is another issue that concerns us and is tempting us, we cannot have misguided relations from the past, which are hesitant with many issues which are not here and that we need to find an end. But I will tell you that precisely because of the fact that the Prime Minister in his recent visit to the United Nations last September met with UNICEF and had an exchange of views with UNICEF officials and because of the special interest that the country has with the unaccompanied minors of refugees and immigrants, we might be able to find a good solution. However, I would like to welcome the fact that through this question you have tried to make constructive criticisms and highlight an issue. I think that at some point we should write down what has been written and write down a new page, which is clean and is on a new base based, not a reproduction of the pathogens of the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. You were both - and Mr. Loverdos and the Minister - very briefly. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 4/9 by Mr Ephremidis (H-0220/98) Ioannis Ragosi, Olgas Gerovasili, Alexandros (Alexis) Haritsis, Athanasias (Athanasia) Anagnostopoulou, Georgios Psychos, Christos Giannoulou, Alexandrous (Alekou) Triantafyllidis, Irene - Eleni Agathopoulos, Athanasios (Nassi) Athanasios, Tryphos Alexiadis, Evangelos Apostolos, Alexandros - Christos Ayloitis, Ethanasioglou, Valadoni, Socrates Bardakis, Vasilios (Vasilios) Vasilios, Christos Vettasiliou, Ioannis Konstantinos, Khalinanis, Zoranistanis (Houssiliou, Zarnisanistanis), Khalanistanou, Khalanistanis (Halonnisanisiasiasilisia), Kalonidis, Ioanistanis, Ioannis, Ioannisstanis, Ioannisstaniadis, Ioannisstaniasilisiliou, Ioannis - Ziasilisilis, Ioannis, Ioannisilisilisilisilisilisilisilisilisos, Ioannisilisos, Ioannisilisos, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannisilisos, Ioannisilis, Ioannis, Ioannisanthis, Ioannisilisilisilisanisos, Ioannis, Ioannisantis, Ioannisstaniasilisilisilisilisilisilisilisilisilis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannisantou, Ioannisantou, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannisantou, Ioannisantou, Ioannisantou, The first question is raised by Mr. Ioannis Ragussas, MP for the 10 minutes of SYRIZA. Those who follow, I think you know the times, but I'll tell them. If you want to let me know, if you wish to continue with your dentistry. Here, Mr Ragosi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, thank you, Minister, for the honour you have given us to answer the timely question we have asked you two months ago! Of course, with your reluctance to answer all you have finally achieved is to enable us to establish even more solid arguments and opposition objections. Because we now have seven months of your administration and not one, not two, but many revealing truths that we will be discussing today your security policy. So let's see your report. Let's help you, in other words, look at your mirror. At the same time you were being recruited as the Secretary General of your Ministry, the former leader of EL.AS, who for the tragedy in Matti had been forced to resign. At the time you were talking in the name of the law and the order, at the same time you made a rag of any law that didn't suit the Prime Minister's best friends. So, in order to appoint the new commander of the NRA, a private security company employee, without a degree, at the end of you devoured the law itself, by abolishing the requirement of the degree as a qualification for a management post in the State. For you, so-called fans of excellence, finally law is the right thing to do with your best friend. While you should continue the process of modernising the Security Corps, at the same time you restored years after the non-SAP and non-Greek examinations, instead of police officers, you abolished a thousand and fifteen organic police posts, resulting in the worsening of the police service subsecution. For example, today in Thessaloniki, Crete, Achaea, especially in Piraeus and almost all of Greece, the subsecution reaches 40% to 50% of the services. In many cases, the administrations of the services in order to cope with this are forced not to have any purpose of detention or of guarding the police service, with whatever risk this entails - and you know it well - solely on your own responsibility. At the time you want to show up that you supposedly care about the cops, at the same time you didn't find just five million euros for their holiday allowance. You see Greek women and Greek police officers, Minister, it is not your priority, as are those your friends who have great real estate and for whom you have found a hundred million euros to reduce HNVIA to them the good morning. At a time when in the 2020 budget you have increased by more than five million euros the cost of remuneration to officials serving in your own offices, at the same time not only did you say that you do not have five million for the allowance of police officers, but you have left police departments without cleaning services, such as the police department in Rendi or in Moschato with the police to be forced - before you take over, that is accurate - and at their own expense, to clean departments, and so on. At the same time, with police theatres you are trying to get through an illusion of security for the citizens, crime is going unscathed at the same time, with the inhabitants of Exarches rising up by saying that they can only walk at night on two main roads. Trade clubs across the country, such as the trade clubs of Nice and Korydallos, report a dramatic increase in the robbery of their stores. At the same time as serving to produce a police spectacle, having turned police officers into actors for television news reports, heavy crime is here at the same time with mafia executions day noon in family taverns as recently in Varis. Every morning, once Attica residents wake up - and this looks like a joke, but it's real - and they open the windows, they don't look to see what time it's doing, but first of all, they look to see if they were burned by the car. While Mr. Mitsotakis created with knowledge of the false expectations that it was enough for him to be elected Prime Minister to finish the unbaptised, as he said, the Exarchites or to end the "Ruvikon" and the groupskoulas as early as July 8, at the same time as reality in Exarchia, as well as the "Ruvikon", are breaking through you and your credibility everyday and endless. At the time you are talking about allegedly protecting individual rights, at the same time you are intercepting them in the most challenging way, such as in Koukaki, you have rushed even to pre-empt the findings of the judiciary and independent authorities, saying that there was no police violence against director Dimitris Indarre, at the same time as his photo through the GAAP proved in an undeniable way his injury to the lawful and unconstitutional police violence within his own home. And you, instead of feeling obliged - along with Mr Mitsotakis - at least to apologize, continue to cover up the illegitimate and unconstitutional police violence of the few - is true - of the jurors. While you should create conditions of cross-party consensus and cooperation, you continue the unforgivable slandering and the extreme right-wing misery of Ministers and Members of Parliament against us, against the progressive party, that we supposedly do not condemn the violence against police officers or that we have an affair with the illegal 'Rubicon' practices. While you should constantly build relationships between police officers and citizens, especially the new generation, you proceeded to unprecedented police operations based on the inactive presidential decree by Father Mitsotakis of 1992, entering cinemas to control the age of the children who were watching movies, such as the Oscar "Joker". At the same time as you should preserve as the daughter of an eye the precious acquis of decades, that is, the acquis of Greece as one of the most secure tourist destinations in the world, at the same time the Prime Minister with unprecedented urgency made our home country part of one of the most dangerous crises and potential war conflicts by saying only to them that the United States of America did well kill Iranian general Suleimani in a way that is directly contrary to international law. While Mr. Mitsotakis was arrogant in July, he said that "112" would work within a month, at the same time you managed to close the Athens-Thessaloniki national road after a common snowfall. In fact, for you too to understand the insultingness of your citizens, now enter your mobile phone, Mr. Minister, Mr. Chrysochide, on the main page of your Ministry and press on the "112 urgent need" button. Do you know what you'll see? This page hasn't been found, you've got to get in the middle of it. At least that was the picture until yesterday. This is the ultimate state for which you are constantly dealing with. At the same time as you are trying to disprove our criticisms, you have confirmed us in the most official way. How? As soon as you were the day before that you were replacing the General Police Director of Attica with the task that you took over and who was the operational manager in both Exarchia and Koukaki and the incursions of the cinemas throughout this period of seven months. At the time when you are exchanging congratulations to the Prime Minister and Minister, at the same time the acceptance of your security policy by the Greek society is constantly falling. You started with 70% positive opinions and in the recent study of "METRON ANALYSIS" for "HIMA OF KYRIAKIS", the positive opinions have fallen to 45%, the negative to 48%, for the first time more are the negative. At the same time, Minister, you are seeking to appear committed to solving the problems of citizens as a whole as a government, at the same time condensing the opacity in the management of public money, increasing your involvement with strange business. A few days ago you moved on to the unprecedented time-consuming energy to legislate secret funds in civil protection, i.e. you legislated your in all respects unacceptable and unjustified ability to manage the civil protection of millions of euros, in fact - you know it well - without control and documentation, despite the sloppy excuses that the ministry and the political leadership have been saying at times. At the same time, however, you are doing something else. Proceed to the suspect contest for the new budget identities of EUR 500 million and not just for the category that you set it up. I'm transferring it to you directly, that's what they're counting on you. The first decision by Mr Mitsotakis as soon as he took office was neither for national nor for society. You just took over, you rushed away. - within 24 hours to cancel a tender approved by the European Union at its final stage, a tender which ensured the participation of dozens of companies. However, you proceed to a competition that - your alimony if finally confirmed - will only allow few companies to submit tenders. Take care of yourself, because the way you're going, you're gonna have some bad outfit. We're warning you. Finally, while you should be implementing an overall scientifically-integrated plan for security and crime, at the same time you are simply tempting the movement of crime outbreaks on the streets below from where the media has identified them. And in order to prove this, Mr Minister, we will make public now, alongside our parliamentary debate, a very short video of images that we recorded with the help of left.gr and journalist Angel Calodouka, as well as the inclusion of a report by SKAI, which, as you know, is not SYRIZA, from streets of the center where you moved the violation. A video that confirms that your security policy has results, such as the results of someone pushing on one side a balloon full of air, all it manages is just to carry the air that has inside the balloon to the other side of it. Mr President, Minister, we do not blame you for not extinguishing the crime, or for failing to neutralize the Ruvikon on 8 July. We do not claim that there is a magic wand on security issues. With this perception we will continue to monitor you with a documented reason without populism, without effluents. With this notion we will continue to congratulate each other whenever special services such as anti-terrorism continue to produce results, as they have done in recent years. Far from us, Mr Chrysochoidis, the orbanish-type police populism of Mr Mitsotakis, particularly in problems which are complex - and economic and social - such as crime and security. But we are blaming you that you have consciously deceived the people in an election. We accuse you of continuing to use a ghebian type of propaganda against us, just the same as that of the time that they used all kinds and quality lips of the right and the extreme right. We accuse you of dealing with the problems of security entirely communication and with almost zero results. In particular, we blame you for giving the citizens a police show, gentlemen of the government, because you cannot give them any growth, education and culture. We accuse you that after seven months of governing your doctrine is ultimately not the doctrine "law and order". Your true doctrine after seven months has been confirmed, in the field of security it is ultimately the doctrine of "military populism and business", large and opaque business with public money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u12	Mrs Olga Gerovali has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u13	Minister, I think that from the doctrine of the New Democracy, the doctrine of 'law and order', we have gone to 'true and fight'. I am not going to analyse why the spraying of two hundred students is illegal, I am not going to stand by protestors, I am not going to stay in the Greek police's film humiliation in the Indare family case. I'm not going to comment on a criminal cop's fist, I'm not going to be spent on the phones of the cementstone, whether it was or not a homicide attempt, the drop of cementstone in the Cookie occupancy. As much as there were interventions to change the indictment to homicide in the case of the cementstone, I would remind you that you did not have the same reflexes and sensitivity in the case of Zak Kostopoulos. In this case, the death of this man was recorded on cameras, we all saw it on television. But the charge is for fatal physical damage and not for homicide. Two metres and two standards in our attitude to justice. I will not judge the indictment right now, of course. For the above, it is sufficient to mention the threat of the resignation of the chairman of the Committee on Succession Control of the Greek Police, Professor Alivizatou. Suffice the complaint of the Athens Bar Association, the National Commission on Human Rights and the questions of many MEPs on these matters. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in no time has the New Democracy managed to tarnish the Greek Police. But the policing is not done in front of the cameras or the cameras. Police need in-depth analysis, holistic anti-crime policy and synergy with social actors. Safety - we will repeat it once again - is a social asset, a citizen's right to a favoured state. Under no circumstances can it end up serving as a television by-product, cameras set up outside the occupations to relay any business. Every policing authority is being violated and the lives of the policemen are being threatened. Of course, during these days, there were no cameras or fussies, and I would say the opposite. There was a systematic hiding of great successes of the Greek Police. But there was also an operational plan to prevent crime and deal with it. I will mention that you have announced in mid-four times a change in the operational plan from July to today. I would remind you that we have been promoting integrated programmes aimed at preventing and fighting crime, such as the 'PERSEEA' project and the apparent policing in the neighborhoods. The Area of Mars and the area of Philippi was attributed. I would remind you that in July 2017, for the first time, we prevented the ATM break-up in AHEPA in Thessaloniki. In 2015, there was a recession of 30% of the serious crime in the wider center of Athens. Dozens of successful building evacuation operations were carried out in Exarchia and elsewhere, without hysterical ultimatum or cameras. Only in my brief term will I remind you that there have been twenty organized operations in Exarchia, over a hundred and sixty pounds of raw cannabis. The police themselves said at the time that so many businesses had not been made for twenty-five years. In the first half of 2019, five and a half tonnes of cannabis were seized throughout the territory and over two thousand illegal weapons. All this, Minister, was not because we, the ministers of our government, had acquired some epiphany, but we let the Greek Police do its job - because the Greek Police know very well how to do its work on crime - of course unlike what some trade unionists were saying - of those who took thirty days a month empty all year and who have never tried for work, that is, that we had tied them up. Let me remind you here that these licences have been cut off and you have reintroduced them. I don't know why. So unlike them, we let Greek police do its job. The one who won't let the police do her job is New Democracy. The polls are overthrown. They reveal that citizens do not feel security, and Greek society discusses police violence and not real problems and not real crime.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Alexis Haritsis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that at the beginning of December, when we asked this timely question about increasing crime and increasing police arbitrariness, it would be difficult to imagine the universal spiral of general insecurity, in which the New Democracy Government has plunged the country, insecurity that extends from the daily lives of labour relations to the atmosphere around the refugee and foreign policy issues of the country. And attention! Of course, we do not equate or simplify. We are not going to follow New Democracy in the slippery downhill of ethnicism that followed the opposition, when blaming SYRIZA as responsible for everything, from geopolitical instability in our wider region to climate change. What we must point out, however, is how the administrative insufficiency and the ideological nuisances of the current government have led to the return of insecurity to the Greek society, an insecurity which, as we all remember very bitterly, has permeated Greek society in the first years of the crisis, when citizens could not think about their future beyond the next literally day, under the stress of the collapse of the economy, the cruel austerity, the dissolution of the social state, an insecurity which the SYRIZA government has fought in a very systematic way in 2015-2019, when with targeted interventions we have managed to return to the Greek society, the Greek people, self-confidence and dignity. Because for us security is exactly the opposite of insecurity. It is a right of all citizens. It is a right for everyone and for all, a precondition for the quality of our democracy, for social and political equality, and that is why we have invested in security. But let's see what security we're talking about. We are talking about the security offered by the social state to all its citizens, about the security offered by all - and the uninsured - to health, education, to work, about the security offered by the choice of conflict with organised interests, with organised crime, with the immunity of the strong, about the security offered by economic stabilisation, the planned development for all, the certainty that the country has left behind the days of fear and crisis. Finally, for the security that our country offers as a guarantor of stability in our region, as a protagonist of international developments, to be a force of peace and peace in the way of geopolitical problems. So SYRIZA is the party of security, security for many and many, security for the weak, the vulnerable, the marginalized. We know, of course, very well that the New Democracy has attempted to make security a flag, put it very high on the electoral agenda and, of course, within a very short time, perhaps less than we expected, we have seen the results, because in the New Democracy's logic the concept of security has no social significance, it is not linked to social rights and it is not about society as a whole. It concerns an obsolete agenda where security is translated into the doctrine 'law and order'. Of course, one can oppose us: 'You do not want law and order'? The answer is simple: we want law and order, and we have proved that in practice. We have shown that in our own logic law and order are tools to strengthen social security and conflict with the mechanisms of organised crime. I would remind you that for the days of SYRIZA, for the first time, criminal drug trafficking gangs in Exarcheia have been dismantled by the police. I would also remind you that, in the days of SYRIZA, tourism in Athens surpassed all expectations, disproved the image of generalised infractions cultivated by the New Democracy and part of the media, precisely because there was security in the city. I would also remind you that according to Greek Police figures themselves in 2015-2019 there was a 30% reduction in serious crime. This is the result of social policy, the conflict with criminal cartels, the substantial reinforcement of the EL.AS. And the political choice to let her finally do her job unnecessarily. Her job, of course, is not to strip young people in the middle of the road. Police work is not to beat up students and students claiming to open their school. Police work is not to act as a complementary right-wing mechanism. The New Democracy is responsible for the images that we have seen very recently from our television receivers. Because consciously encouraged the most reactionary voices inside the EL.AS. Because he created an image where the people are an enemy. Because it was based on a communication show. Of course, that logic of the show, that logic of communication management, is also paid to a very critical issue such as refugee. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like to take all three minutes from my second language. So in the refugee region, the New Democracy chose before the elections, to promise magic solutions and to promote a border security rhetoric, which is supposed to in some way easily solve the most complex issue perhaps facing Europe, the whole planet for the 21st century. The results, of course, are seen: insecurity on our islands, which see the collapse of structures. Insecurity from the re-establishment of extreme right-wing gangs, calling for self-determination to impose the'security' - within many introductorys - which the New Democracy had elected them in the election process. Insecurity when we see the government plan exhausted to the costly, among all the other problems it creates, sea walls, which refer to the naiveness of a child who thinks with towers in the sand will deal with the waves. Insecurity, of course, also by the government's systematic choice to use police forces to suppress an explosive situation, especially in Lesvos, but also in the other islands, a choice that leads to dangerous and completely unpredictable flaws. We see this choice from the government's point of view and at the workplace. I will not go into detail, but it is very worrying that the evidence which actually shows the government returns us to the old 'good' - within many introductory days - when labour claims were treated as an enemy, which was the only way to deal with repression. Mr. Ministers, gentlemen of the government, you are responsible for all this. You have a responsibility when you cover attitudes that offend our democracy and slander the country internationally. You have a responsibility when turning the police into a TV show collision and at the same time disorientating it from the difficult, indeed, front of the conflict with organized criminal interests. You have a responsibility when to cover up your discomfort with the great problems of our time, you invest in fear and insecurity. Your doctrine is not "law and order". That was right a moment ago, my colleague Olga Gerovali said. Your doctrine is 'true and fight'. Your doctrine leads the country backwards to those days when insecurity covered the thoughts and feelings of citizens, which the police were the ally of the mighty, who power was based on control and discipline. We won't let you, though. We will defend the right of citizens to security. We will defend the clear and unequivocal desire of our people for law and order, but in the service of society rather than the few and the strong ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u16	Mrs Ithanasia Anagnostopoulou has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in these seven months of governance by New Democracy we have witnessed massive violations and arbitrariness on the part of the Greek Police, always on the pretext of the Ministry of Civil Protection that we have an extensive lawlessness and illegality. At the outset we have seen the attempt to incriminate the cornerstones of our own democracy, our country. Also, university asylum, student movement, youth right from the beginning were framed, i.e. that universities are a man of lawlessness, lawlessness, etc. This also went through the family asylum, as we saw in Koukaki. Minister, I'd like to tell you something adventurous. Because I've been living in Koukaki since 1993, never, ever, despite the little or a little greater crime that all the neighbors of Athens had, we didn't feel unsafe in our neighborhood. We have suddenly felt insecure over the last few months, especially with the communications companies you have been doing at this time. Are these facts, however, only about one policy of the Ministry of Civil Protection or are they part of another general philosophy of governance? Because that's what I care about. I see here the 'blue' sub-culture that has been governing the right for many decades now, to come to the surface and to be updated with a new type of governance that we see in other parts of the world and Europe. Who's that? "The rights are absurd luxuries." Human rights first and foremost and then below - because that is the crucial - social rights. We are therefore going through the principle of legality governing the rule of law in the principle of feasibility. There's always a threat. There's always an enemy inside or outside. We have seen it in the most characteristic way on the issue of refugee immigration. Its rhetoric 'is these people or a finger in Turkey' for a complex, complex phenomenon, with deep causes, not only for our country, what can it mean, rather than for the creation of fronts in society, where the police have to act as a comparable factor between the fronts rather than the prevention and social peace factor? What else can it mean when you soak deadlock and hatred in society, why has that been done in Lesvos? What else it may mean by having antisocial behaviors and extreme right-wing behaviors that we have seen: Lesvos from a point of reference for solidarity and humanity suddenly turns into a point of right-wing politics and rhetoric. So we put the police on a rhetorical front all of a sudden. Forward with the universities. What was that hiding? Because, as I said, rights are indivisible, human and social. It was, of course, underneath the equation of university degrees with colleges. Could there be a reaction to university? If there's a reaction, it's a man of lawlessness. Also, something else very important. If we take the other side, does the police take advantage of it? Is this whole rhetoric in favor of the police? No way! As far as we have seen, the famous "final state" touched the police itself. Suddenly, people are being transferred for reasons of reinsurance and party, contests that had been proclaimed - the previous speakers, Mr Raguss and Mrs Gerovasi have spoken about identities - are being smashed into the air, cutting bodies that have done patrols, allowances, etc., being transferred to other regions and so on. In other words, we see an inefficiency and while the police are in need of social consensus, as a protector of rights and security, it is slowly becoming an enemy of society or must be with some of the society, some of which you want. I'll close, to talk to my dentistry, saying one thing. We will not allow, however much you are trying to blame SYRIZA as a mobilizer for terrorist acts or for hams or crimes, the principle of feasibility overcoming the principle of legality. The rule of law is not a rhetorical evasion. It's the foundation of democracy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u18	Mr. George Psychogios has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the right to security, yes, it is constitutionally guaranteed, is important for us too. But security, as it has been heard, is also the good hospital with full access for everyone, it is the school that has all the specialities and on the most remote island in the country, it is also the work rights with collective agreements, the increase in minimum wages and, against employers arbitrariness, the social welfare that combats the humanitarian crisis and creates job opportunities and, of course, it is an overall social state framework. But it was clear from the first days of your administration that New Democracy's policy, as far as security is concerned, has two axes. Firstly, targeting and secondly, limiting rights. You started with communication fireworks that are not directly related to issues of civil security. The targeting of social groups has enabled you to apply the second axis of your policy, to go ahead with reducing social groups rights. I want to say here, and to you, Minister, but also to the citizens who are listening to us, that the social groups that are being put in are a forerunner for the other social groups that will be attacked in the next period. Uninsured people, the unemployed, the vulnerable, the LGBTQ community, the fighters, cannot feel safe. Because they will be the next of this attack. You started your term of office, going to Moria by going to the five thousand and eight hundred people, congratulating - and rightly so - on the services that carried out the demands and kept the refugee in a balance. It was accompanied, however, by an image that made the round of Europe and was to stack refugee families into MAT bells. It was an image that was a clear display of power and nothing else, with people who then went to Corinth in a ruthless living conditions, were cut off from education and several of them then left the open structure. That's your policy! You have been manifestly inactive in incidents of violence and police arbitrariness against citizens, describing them as individual. I guess you should see the definition of individual again. Because strippings, diaphragms, extreme suppression are not isolated. You will say that you have ordered SADs. But that, as you know, is not enough. Check systematically whether EL.AS conforms. with the findings of the National Police Violence Investigation Mechanism of the Citizens' Counselor, which we have established, on behalf of the Council of Europe, if you wish to pass a real message to those who tend to be dissatisfied. However, what is really needed is the political will to change the perception of some - I repeat, some policemen that they are a body of power and are not subject to controls. Because for us cops are human beings, they're working. So we also faced them with the meetings we have had both in our cooperation and in the retrospectives that we have given to many other moves. I am sorry, however, to say so, but with statements like those of some police unions that their hands have been solved over your day, something is probably wrong. You have created a sense of fear and not of security for the people in this House who must guarantee compliance with the laws. Minister, in recent events in Mytilini, we have followed a move of extreme repression, when a course of asylum seekers against the miserable conditions of the Moria Ministry, but also in the injustice created by the application of the new law, in which the applications of new entrants are prioritised to the old asylum applications, drowned in tear gas, even with direct sprays on the faces of young children, even British citizens due to colour and, of course, reappeared the raids on the streets of Mytilini. Today, a few hours ago, the Government spokesman announced the extradition of a PPP, which will enact spaces on the islands to build closed reception structures. Close structures will be built - prisons for all, and vulnerable, up to thirty-six months, by military law within structures, by preventing active and passive, which creates explosive conditions for both refugees and local communities. We therefore call on you, Minister, to ensure the equality and functioning of the rule of law. Remove non-democratic evidence from the police. To combat organised crime and, above all, drug trafficking. Work with the municipalities to provide sufficient light for all inhabited areas. Give incentives to develop degraded areas. Reinforce preventive patrols in areas with increased crime. Only by such measures will you be able to say that you are promoting security in a democratic way and not by establishing a climate of fear without a substantial result. For us, as SYRIZA, more democracy and more rights and freedoms means more security and we invite you to implement it immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u20	Mrs. Hara Kafantaris has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, I shall also take my dentistry. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the security of citizens, I think, is a fundamental human right. But is it the government's policy that leads to the implementation and validity of this right with regard to the citizen? Clearly, we answer and say no. The government's choice and its tactics are cultivating a climate of terrorism among the public that is cultivating fear, which, in essence, leads to inertia, non-claiming, declining protests, hitting any resistance in neoliberal policies and human rights. The government's party is desperately trying to cover its huge failure - in all areas I would say - in this important area of security, once again using communication fireworks. The bad policies implemented by police rulership, with state violence, rigged with fast news, old-fashioned ideals, cheap analysis of events, bring back, I regret to say, the division throughout greatness. Otherwise, the government is proclaiming a consensus, but it is only good when one fully agrees with the government's choices. Every opposite voice is at the forefront and attempts to disappear. The New Democracy has been politicizing all the time while it was a opposition to ideologies, to daily propaganda, promising the consolidation of the security of the citizen. Needless to recall, she felt terrified of the hairs and paints of a known group or threatened by some occupations of empty buildings and the housing of refugee families in them. The government's first move was to recruit police officers, special guards, while the Prime Minister himself was in vow of these young people who entered work after a few months' lack of rapid training. In our opinion, the weakening of the departments, the movement of over six hundred police officers from the police departments in Athens, the parallel reinforcement of the MATs and other repressive forces, such as the ACTION - which is essentially the former DELTA - clearly shows the government's choice to reduce the social security burden in the people's neighbourhoods and to turn police personnel into a battle with internal enemies, which the government itself is building. At the same time, rapid is the deterioration of the working conditions of Greek and Greek police officers and their ongoing exposure to danger in order to serve general repression policies. A climax of this, and the operation in Koukaki and the dangers the police have faced with, primarily, the Ministry's political leadership. So we do not agree with the police work. There are these workers, too, like a large part of the Greek people. They're doing a very difficult job. Do not expose them to dangers that concern their lives. The attempt to confiscate with the dismantling and declining of all services - I mentioned before, and I will add the address of forensic investigations, the security departments - to strengthen repressive mechanisms and to strengthen the model of police rule, even with police officers from the province, at public expense, brings exactly the opposite effect, so as to see an uproot and greater dispersion of extremist actions. At the same time, deforestation already has a major impact on the deterioration of the real picture of crime in the country. Six months is in government New Democracy and all myths are destroyed. Despite police rule, chemicals against dissidents, wood on righteous and unjust grounds, no sense of civil security has been established. Police forces may be available for the preservation of buildings evacuated from occupations or even for the prevention for the third time of the arson of a Christmas tree in the square of Athens, but crime, ladies and gentlemen, lives and reigns. Shots shot at Ladad, mafia executions and murders at noon in Vari, dozens of burnt cars in the neighborhoods of Athens, are some of the news of the last few days. And one question I would like to raise: none of the country's security services were moved by Interpol international warrants to mobilise and arrest wanted mafias or performers by not allowing them to enter the country at least? However, is this border guard only to prevent difficult refugees from struggling with political conflicts or against economic and climatic immigrants and refugees desperately trying to prevent a way of simple survival? Repression of organised crime or minor infractions requires many coordinated efforts. We need to strengthen policing both by staff and by means. But there's no need for police rulership. It requires a police officer with upgraded training - something very important - and not a rhetoric as a person with a clear orientation even to influence justice. We need prevention, crime and not repression. What are you doing, gentlemen of the government? You cultivate fear, as Thucydides wrote: “Fear paralyzes memory.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, we are closing the circle of honourable Members with Mr Christos Giannoulis. Here, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since 19 December we have been discussing this question since mid-February. Throughout this year, apparently the leadership of the Ministry of Protection is looking for its political identity. As far as police IDs are concerned, we understood that this is a scandalous and opaque process, starting and forming with a huge cost of hundreds of millions of dollars, and revealing some sort of approach to canceling the contest and coming from the sponsors of the New Democracy to carry out one of the pre-agreed contracts before the elections. But ID crisis isn't just for police IDs. I fear that one of the points, Minister, which will be the judge of history - is the fact that thousands of young, honest policemen who have been introduced into this House with full-blown examinations have managed to restore a historical reality, to be the Greek policeman, not the ranger, but the state official, the state official within a rule of law. You will be judged by history if you regain the concept of a ranger, who has had a great effort to get rid of. And that is - as I told you - the result of trying thousands of honest police officers, officers, men and women. Of course, it's all explained. The President of the Panhellenic Police Office, Mr Fotopoulou, in a crisis of enthusiasm, told him in front of the stairs of Rigili: 'We came to our house'! You remember that. A statement by the late Constantine Mitsotakis to the police had been preceded in 1993 by saying that you are the state. By coming to the present, you and the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, have clearly lost your direction. You were in PASOK, Mr. Mitsotakis was in the central trend of the New Democracy. You returned to this harsh right-wing government and decided a new doctrine - many colleagues have said so - that is, the doctrine of 'law and order'. But if law and order don't keep up with slaps on ten-year-old children in the Menidi. But come on, that law and order do not go hand in hand with everything that happens in your life of government and your term of office as Minister. These actions and this aid and tolerance, in the only doctrine that leads us - and that is what we understand - are that fear helps order, perfect! From there on, you are, of course, taking care of the HEIs, the abolition of asylum. They broke up in college the other day. Did this happen in another country? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Of course, I am surprised, Minister, that there is no sufficient number of fellow Members in the New Democracy now to support such a basic political direction for your Government, such as the 'law and order'. I and other colleagues are elected in the region. I could city - city, village - village in central Macedonia list the unprecedented gaps to executives and their misuse. There are only three hundred organic positions in Thessaloniki. You sent a hundred policemen who, apart from underemployed, don't even cover one third of the gaps. A number of other elements confirm inefficiency. We don't wish that, we don't want it, we don't feel good about it. But that's what's happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u24	Close, Mr. Giannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u25	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we want the Greek police officer not to punish, be professional, be a minister of democracy, be trained not to become a body of violence, be introduced in a worthwhile manner into this House and not by the procedures you hired the five hundred special guards. Be at the service of the citizen, not the Minister or the Prime Minister. In the communication games you are very good, very much better than us, Mrs Vultesis, communication and propaganda. Unfortunately, now you're playing with identities.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u26	You've taken twice as much time!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u27	I want a second, Mr President. But it remains a given one. Your arrogance because of your self-sufficient position has led to a practice that does not account for minorities, rights or public opinion. The self-reliance you think is a white check, which you can cash at any time in the name of the citizens. But I'm afraid and I'll finish with an appeal, with one wish. Dissolve ELSA. The EL.AS is in danger, too. But along with your policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Vassilis - Nikolaos Ypsilantes, is requesting a short-day absence abroad from 14 February to 17 February. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u29	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The circle of honourable Members has been completed. On behalf of the Government, the Minister for Civil Protection Mr. Michael Chrysochoidis will answer. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u30	I will be as brief as possible. I don't need to say a lot about a subject that SYRIZA made then, in December, I mean, and he was on his own, and he talked about it. Now, of course, we have Flevaris, and I'm happy to welcome SYRIZA's asshole. There's been an ass today if you've noticed. It is half, of course, because if you look at Mrs Gerovas' speech and Mr Psychoyou's speech, they are two parties on the road. But anyway, half the ass is positive. So I take some of the words mentioned in the December question. "In recent years" - says the question - "we have witnessed multiple incidents of brutality and unlawful behaviour on the part of the police." I will prove to you that all this really does not respond to the reality. And you continue: "Figureful examples are, first, the raid of MATs at the University of Economics and the tearing of tear gas against students. Secondly, the inhuman and violent arrests of young citizens outside their homes. Thirdly, the demonstration of power against women and children who are violently dragged into police cubes. Fourthly, the raids of policemen on movies against minors.’ I read you four. It's four big lies. I told you and I repeat it: at that time you yourself distorted them and you were moving them yourself. Responding to one - one. Seventy people, with "innocent" stalks, outside the door of ASE, go break the door to join other eighty who are in and beat the cops. Their officers are repulsed, according to their orders. I would remind you that the school was closed after the Senate decided. I would remind you that two days ago the Police had found a yacht in the University of Economics with other stalks, masks, fire extinguishers and other "academic" materials. Nevertheless, it is immediately ordered by the GATT to investigate offences by the investigation, in accordance with the provisions of Presidential Decree 120/2008 and in order to investigate all this. The investigation concludes what I mentioned earlier: the case has been closed. Secondly, the video of compacting in ASE is identified with a stalk in the young man's hand and is captured at his home. Sterling with cause and purpose, ladies and gentlemen. Repeat, stylus with cause and purpose. In the heads of people who are employed, go for the ribbon. Is his arrest for a crime for some is police violence or violence against the police are the hits on 'patsus, pigs and murderers'? Third, there are evacuations of illegal occupations, according to the D.A.'s order. In the presence of social workers, women police officers, supporters of police and the Municipality of Athens are evacuated twenty-two occupations. It doesn't sound like a word. There is a picture that shows a fearful woman, an immigrant, with her child in the arms of being driven to the vehicle that will carry her to the refugee destination, the settlement, the structure. And I wonder: does it not bother anyone, and at all does it not bother to talk about babys on which violence has been committed, ignoring the facts? A few of the twenty-two occupations had refugees and, where they were, they were legally transferred, with sensitivity, with respect and very good hospitality to the refugee structures. But, we said, lies, slogans, and issues are being made. What violence in refugees women and children? With a picture, could SYRIZA hide his political embarrassment? I heard it today. Why are you finally expressing an objection to emptied occupations? What's the problem? However, I will see you later on on on on on on political matters. Fourthly and better, violence in cinemas. I heard that, and now. Do you honestly believe it yourself? Even the obvious mistake made that day, completely condemnable and incomprehensible nowadays, looking for inappropriate as if we were in other times, in the '50s, is this police violence? I wonder where you twisted it, how you twisted it, too, so that it could fit into the shape and slogan of police violence. We therefore have eleven examples of violence as a whole in the question of SYRIZA Members. We talked about the first four. There's no police force anywhere. The rest is seven and it's all unsubstantiated with exceptions two. And in order not to tire you to analyse them, I submit an information note, an internal document from the police in the Minutes on all the things that are mentioned in the question. [[At this point, the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Michael Chrysochoidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The two are really serious. They are complaints of abuse, abuse, extreme police behaviour on 17 November and 6 December, that is to say on the two anniversaries. For both the interrogations started immediately. They're urgent and once they're completed, they'll be forwarded to the Citizen's Counselor. And here, let's get this straight. Police officers, especially Special Forces, are constantly training. If they are unable to keep their mouths or their hands closed, they will go elsewhere, they will be transferred to other services. We want professionals who will apply the law and we're not looking for dickheads. These are unsolved issues and sincere decisions for us. To close, then, the multiple cases of police violence, brutal and illegal behaviour, as you mention in the question with eleven barbaric examples, are the following two which are being investigated and we all agree that if they apply, they do not fit into the modern police and the modern rule of law. Are the two episodes more than was considered in previous years? No, of course not. So there's no uprising SYRIZA invoked then, even though there's much more police activity. Where is it - I have heard it again today - the doctrine of 'true and fight' which you refer to in the question and where is the 'right-wing state', as you say? What is left of all this as a point of view once a methodologically and systematically blows off the dust of your so-called ones? It stays “licensing shirt”, land slogans are practically left. And really here, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, in my opinion, there is a great political issue that prevents us from consulting on an issue which, I would say, concerns all the citizens of the country. And for some of you - and I stress this - and I heard this again today, security has recently been mentioned as a right. We consider it a pillar of the rule of law. For many of you the police are beating, it's not protecting. We honor her and lead her to her mission, which means that we do not tolerate her excesses. For some of you lawlessness is not a problem, and infraction is some children playing Robin Hood. We take it very seriously, because in lawlessness, ladies and gentlemen, drugs are slashing around and wallets and people's property are lost, because in the indiscriminateness some “I’m not paying” take the law into their hands and make others pay next. All this is not isopolitical, and it is not a rule of law. Because, therefore, some cannot swallow security ideology, because security is a pillar of government policy, because still half of you talked about polls, because still half of the SYRIZA voters, according to all measurements, are in agreement with security policy being pursued, two facts, three photos, five slogans for police violence were built. Here, then, we have nothing to do with make news, but they went through the make-up stage, scriptures that some are making up. I hope we don't believe them today, after at least two months. I now come to the issue of crime. You say that the government supposedly chooses police rule, because it cannot force police and fight crime. Another lie and another construction, for two thousand seven hundred policemen are more and special guards are on the streets today. They're more self-proof and measured. The thousand two of us picked them up from here and there, from the offices. New operational policing projects were developed in Athens, Attica, Thessaloniki, in all counties and in all urban centres in the region. The main feature is the same, police outside the offices, streets, obvious patrols and the creation of new flexible units to deal with the paramilitary, pettyfts, especially in the city centers, as well as two hundred and fifty policemen patrol every day in the historic centre of Athens, with scooter, groups consisting of five - six policemen with van in all areas of the historic centre, and above all, I must tell you about Attica and Athens, which has a large number of crimes against the rest of Greece, under the Patisian countryside, in the people's neighborhoods that had years to see. And I go personally and many times simple people, people poor people tell me that "at last, we see a state". They pass police officers and people applaud. They're not right-wing or left-wing. They are citizens who live with insecurity every day and seek protection. In West Athens for the first time, new special forces are attempting in very harsh crime. I don't go on because I'm not taking stock today, I'm just showing you what a cop means. I'm telling you what had to be done for so many years, so that we don't let the crime get bogged down with the absence of the police from her duties. Here, let me just say one more thing: there are tens of thousands of foreigners travelling in the country without documents of legality. And I don't say it in a racist mood, I mean that the official country, the official state who these people are, we don't know their identity. We could legitimise them, we could do a series of actions, but we do not know a part of them, unfortunately, has a very large criminal activity proven and now that the new asylum law applies, I have to tell you that many of them are being arrested, detained, considered as a priority, in order to determine whether they are refugees or not. But these circulate, thousands of people were released for free all these years. So we arrest all of them. Previously, the previous law did not allow all of this to happen. We arrest gangs from Corinth to Athens that have desolated the neighborhoods. They have been arrested over the past few weeks, ladies and gentlemen, criminals who stole hundreds of times, were prosecuted for justice a hundred times, were released hundreds of times - unjust, of course - and they were out there and continued to do so. Do you know why? Because that famous law had been passed where he said the limit for the flood was 120,000 euros. Think in a poor neighborhood or in a more middle urban neighborhood who has at the house of 120,000 euros to go and steal them. Only then would it be a distinguished theft and a flood. These arrangements were made just before the July elections. I still don't keep going. We are government and we are tempered with our own goals and not with your own shortcomings. But when you give up for a lack of work in policing, that doesn't just have a lot of nerve, but it shows a lot of distance from reality and, indeed, I invite you to study it very well. Also, you're asking me to apologize for the case in Koukaki, where you say I'm advanceing the outcome of the investigation by the Citizens' Counselor. How can you tell such a lie? Have you come out in every television window, in every public step, at every inch of the Internet, from the first to the last, and you state with certainty that the asylum has been violated - do you remember that? - that, in other words, police forces have entered a home from a Greek citizen or from a home, whatever nationality he may have, without the prosecutor's permission, that is, a very basic law has been violated. That's a big lie! There were three prosecutors present. But for three to four days this fame was released. They arrest quiet people at home, they say at every opportunity many executives, no matter whether they're even clean, naughty lie. I have a question: have you seen any delusional cement falling in Cookie?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u31	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, invoke an unexistent outbreak of police violence and systematically ignore the violence against the police, where violence against the police is not done with impressive pictures, but more than thirty working police children went to hospitals with "innocents" injuries, rightful stalks and teenage molotovs. I really hope that you will review all this and monitor us fertilely as Opposition. I would like to refer to the question of the identities raised by the first speaker, Mr Ragus, and others. I, Mr Ragossi, with a lot of love and a lot of sympathy to your face, want to tell you to be careful, because you may be exposed. When I went to the Ministry, Mr Ragosi, I had three written complaints about the previous competition and I didn't tell anyone anything, I've never said it for the first time. I didn't mention it to a member of the government anywhere. Do you know why? Because I know what is going on in these cases and I did not think that Mrs Gerovas, my predecessor, might have anything to do with this, absolutely nothing. I threw them away and threw them away because I know what's going on in these competitions. That is the first thing to do, then, too. Secondly, when we discuss a matter in public, there is the question, there is the answer. Here we give answers, but you don't listen to them, you don't want to read the announcements, so you say the same thing again and leave it implied. There are clean answers. First question: Why was SYRIZA's competition cancelled in 2019? Quite simply, because it did not involve e-government from the outset. The current government does not buy for the citizen a identity card, buy a citizen's card, that is, a card that he will use for EKKA, for the tax office, for the banks, that is, it will be a tool that will abolish too many bureaucratic activities, and that does not exist. This means saving GDP from now on from 0.5% to 0.7% and it is a national benefit. Secondly, says SYRIZA and others that he will have more expenses in the new contest to get the new ID. That's a lie. Ten euros, 10 euros will be again. I mean, what the citizen would pay. Ten euros would pay for the old competition, 10 euros would be right now. Maybe it's less. This competition has 30 million for e-government and the same amount is ultimately the same. So, second lie. Third lie. That the color photograph will bring higher costs to the contest. Not at all. In the previous competition, the contractor’s obligation to offer the colour identity in five years after the day of the project competition was provided for. Now he's offering it right away. Six. I answered it before. The cost will be higher than the previous competition. Costs remain the same. Fifty-five million euros for fifteen years. In fact, the cost of the new tender is lower because e-government services have been included, digital governance, which is 30 million. Candidates will be much less because of the color photography. Does the competition become photographic? What some speakers have said earlier. Not at all. Twenty-five companies were called in the first tender, twenty-five, identical companies in the second tender. So why are some of them photographed? Why are the companies less? And in any case, we'll see how many companies are coming. This is their own issue, how they will organise their offers. He made an opinion of the S.T.E. for digital governance negatively. So, it's going to be illegal. Of course not. The S.T.E. it accepted that there was no basis for inclusion in the identity of e-government if it had not been clearly defined. The government has complied. It adopted a provision, Article 23 of Law 4647, which amends and supplements the article in order to comply with the decision of the Council of State. Seventh claim: in terms of security, color is weaker than black and white photography. Not at all. On the contrary. I don't want to get into technical issues. And finally there was another claim. I saw him in the question that SYRIZA submitted and has already answered. Will Greece be ready due to the cancellation and reopening of the tender to issue new identities in good time in accordance with the obligations towards the European Union? Totally ready expressly and unequivocally. The relevant regulation on strengthening the security of European Union citizens' identity cards, in Article 16, stipulates that the implementation of this measure begins on 2-8-2021 and says that all this will end on 3-8-2026. In conclusion. The previous competition for us was numerous incomplete technically. Mostly it was without rush for growth without rush to reduce bureaucracy. Those who have not raped the citizen are now being raped by fierce accusations. We respond specifically and clearly because we do not have time to waste. We are in a hurry to help citizens and we are aiming at the development of the country because the lives of the citizens in this measure, with the application of the citizens' card, will change radically. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "VENIZELOS", fifteen students and students and two teachers from Dramas High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We shall proceed with the parliamentary representatives. I give the floor to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Dimitrios Janakopoulos, for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have to say, ladies and gentlemen, that following Mr Chrysochide's reply we have absolutely no reason to be less concerned. I'd say the opposite. Not to say that the Minister has shown that he has neither sacred nor loyal, I will stress the following. He did what he knows to do well for seven months, to lie, to distort, to defame inaccurate, innocence, unfounded, unfounded and false complaints. Because it was disgusting what you said to the previous Minister for Civil Protection that you allegedly had complaints and thrown them away. Give it to the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u35	I'll get them for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u36	Give them the publicity otherwise to withdraw this appalling attack that you have previously made. And see if these complaints are correct or unstable. And prove the morality and quality here before this House. We're waiting. You have an hour and a half to bring the complaints and give them to this House to assess them. You chose to use, that is, all the tools of the most extreme right. You have chosen to identify students' efforts to hold a general meeting in ASEAN with terrorism. You chose to involve the cementstone with unacceptable practices and the invasion of Mr. Indar's home. You forgot the slapping to an 11-year-old kid. You forgot that far-right guys beat up a few days ago a German journalist and the MATs were watching in Syntagma Square. You forgot the attack of MATs on the journalist of newsit.gr, Mr. Arabadino, in Exarchia. You have forgotten the threats of police officers against a journalist from the 'OMNIATV'. You forgot that they were beaten and with false felons on their backs two students were found in the "Open". You know the "Open" organization at one time in the 1970s belonged to the same political area you were in. Are they terrorists too? You have forgotten Amnesty International's complaints of torture of police officers. You forgot the attack of MATs on a 20-year-old gob and kicks. You forgot the complaints that officers tortured an eighteen-year-old student. It's all at your disposal. You know it. Don't do what you don't understand. And don't make fun of the world or the MPs. These are all symptoms of a more general political strategy that you have adopted as a New Democracy and as a Government. These aspects of this general policy are to be emphasised here today. Who are they? That a radical right-wing turn has taken place in New Democracy for several years now. Indicative of Mr Samara's slogan that we will regain our cities, which are supposed to be invaded by foreigners. The radical right-wing extreme displacement of New Democracy was completed during the leadership of Mr. Mitsotakis. It was expressed in the Prespecies Agreement in the patrioted way you chose to oppose. It was expressed and expressed in the refugee. It is expressed in the doctrine ‘law and order’, which should normally be called ‘a doctrine of terror and repression’. Mr. Mitsotakis has invested in the election process, he is now investing, in a reason that replicates all the slogans, the subject matter of the style of practices, of the alternative right, of the extreme right, as today not only in the United States, but also in Austria and Hungary and Italy with Salvini and in a number of other regions. And the reason he does that is that he considers that, through this political choice, he will gain access to popular layers. Uh, that's not how it works, you've underestimated the popular layers too much. The problem, however, is that from the very beginning, Mr Chrysochide, you personally offered to play the role of the philosopher of this far-right displacement within the government. Continue with your answer here today, to be protagonist in a business, to cultivate a terrible syndrome, to cultivate extreme racism - your placement was a sample of alt - right racism a moment ago - to mobilise your hatred as well as your government and your new party. You represent the most antisocial in the modern world and you have really confused - and we continue to emphasise this - the police occupation and the building of the new police state with police. I will give you two three examples. The mobilisation of the Exarchates, a few weeks ago, where they told you that instead of dealing with gangs and organised crime, which is shining the entire region and especially the streets, around Callidomio, the only thing you invest, is to set up a communication show. I will report to you the ASAE, where you chose a moment ago, as I told you, to put them with the students who went to the convention. But because I went over there last Friday, take a look at what the new, great, ambitious policy to combat organised crime has achieved. You can't walk from the drug dealers. May I report you the mafia executions in the middle of the day? Can I report you the incidents at the Ladad? And you're coming here to play the security guarantor all of a sudden? Who do you think you're kidding? This is Parliament, it's not TV panel. You have achieved within a very short period of time, just within seven months, to register as the minister of torture - and I count my words - of humiliation, stripping, illegal surveillance. And you know, with all this, you've given a signal to enclosures inside the police, sometimes young and sometimes older, that their hands are broken. Will you explain that to us? What does that mean, Mr Chrysochide? With the new leadership of Mr Chrysochoidis and Mr Mitsotakis, our hands have been solved. What have their hands been solved, Mr Chrysochide? And you come here and pretend to be the honorer of the rule of law and rights? I will close with this: you always know the other side of the extreme right, which is lately or less late - this is a citizens' crisis - you have adopted, Minister, it was political fraud, selfishness and hypocrisy. And it's for what we're so suspicious about with everything you're preparing for the new ID contest. Too suspicious! You came here before the former Minister, as if you didn't think he would take the floor and answer you and he would explain or remind you, because all you claimed is false. Because everything you say you bring with the new identity already existed in the previous competition. But didn't you explain why this study? Twenty-four hours after your oath, are you canceling the contest? Such a thing? Such a knowledge of the subject? When did you get to, Mr. Chrysochide, study it? Twenty-four hours? Who do you think you can make fun of here? For us, it's no coincidence that it was your first energy you just went to the Ministry. It's no accident at all! And to know that we are watching you very closely, because we have absolutely no confidence in you, neither political nor personal!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u37	The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr George Kamine, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, it happened on security issues that I had gained quite a wealth of experience in the eight and a half years that I was mayor of Athenians. Because I was a mayor in a town, where the problem of security, from time to time, from the beginning of my term of office to the end, was very serious and it is no accident that it was that crucial issue that concerned public opinion and election. When I met the former Prime Minister, if I'm not mistaken, in 2017 and we discussed the security issue, I said that the sense of insecurity that holds the inhabitants of Athens will eventually pay for it myself if we can't fix the situation, too. He finally paid the price for the July elections. There is still a very serious crime situation in Athens. Why? Because it takes a long time and a very systematic effort to combat a strong-rooted social phenomenon. I am referring to all aspects. I am referring to common crime, but I am also referring to political violence. I am referring to the phenomena of asylum, I am referring to drug trafficking, and of course also to drug trafficking. And when we talked about this at the Athens Municipal Council, when I had the confrontation with "Open City", that I raise it too high the issue of security, what I told them was that at some point the world's reaction would be to prefer security, even in excess of it. If, at least in part, we have to look into this - and I stress this - we have to have a clear picture of the situation. Because the need for security is deeply rooted in human nature and is deeply rooted in social, if I may, subconscious. Very often authoritarian regimes are imposed, precisely because for a long time the feeling of being threatened has been dominated by political instability or violence in public opinion. When SYRIZA does - and has to - the balance sheet of his administration, this should be one of the issues that will discuss it very seriously. Why? Because there are all rights to security. We've already known that since the 17th century. Thomas Hobbs told us at the "Social Convention", because this is exactly what he saw in the civil wars that took place at that time in England. Ultimately, the citizen does not care if he is threatened by the "Rubicon" or by the wrestlers of the Exarches or by the Golden Dawn or by the police arbitrariness. What he cares about is that he's being threatened at some point in the page. The citizen wants a regular policing. Neither does the police absence want the over-presence. A regular policing to such an extent that it is now practically unnoticed. And that is why the Minister should be careful. Stereotypes that are now appearing to affect police officers, who will stop every little bit in the way of young people, who have a doubt, which can stereotypically refer to dynamic movements and yet nothing is revealed, because it is not at all accurate that everyone who travels with a sweater or a hood is also a terrorist or a hamburger, should pay attention to them very much, because they are blackening the image of the police. And of course, the police should have a systematic education in human rights. The next question, which I shall put to the House, which will be addressed to the Minister, will be to find out whether human rights are being taught, to what extent, in all the courses, in police schools. And of course, the second guarantee is that disciplinary law is actually applied to the police. At the moment we have thirteen judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, which are still to be tolerated in the country. Another five were added in 2018. A step has been taken with the recent civil protection law, to give responsibility to the Citizens' Counsel. If he is not given the means he has asked for, and a hole will also do a serious institution, we will disapprove. The police don't hurt transparency. It barely helps and strengthens it, as everywhere in the state. And that's why it's a terrible mistake to fortify the police behind secrets on the slightest occasion. I am referring to the answer I have received to the question I have asked the Minister about how the distribution of security officers is taking place. That's where I objected to a full secret. It's a mistake, and I'll come back. The last thing I want to say is about the credibility of the government. Finally, it seems that from where we started in a sub-ministry of civil protection, the government slowly understands its mistake, namely that it is not all security issues. We saw first of all the relics with the Ministry of Migration Policy. Fortunately, even after six months, the government understood its mistake and re-established it and saw a de facto new ministry created within the ministry. We mustn't have any delusion. The General Secretariat for Civil Protection is a Ministry at the moment within the Ministry, which does not admit it for obvious reasons. It is therefore an opportunity, Minister, to really focus on the core of your duties, on security issues. I don't know what's going to follow with the prisons if they're coming back to the Justice Department. For now, however, they're solving your hands, doing your job better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u39	Mr Yiannis Giokas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. It is clear that lately and they have been dense and intensified the cases of state violence and police arbitrariness. It is well known that the images of police attacks against demonstrators are known, it is well known that the images with all-armed policemen boast in houses and buckle back to those in their paths, are also well-known and repeated the complaints about police officers of MATs and other police agencies who strip, harass, hire, terror, even passive, attack particularly against vulnerable groups, homeless, refugees, and drug addicted while organised crime lives and reigns. They're not individual incidents like you tried to say. We are talking about a generalised situation. In fact, these companies are also testing and legitimacy laboratories and all the repressive framework established by all governments, as well as the use of more advanced weapons. Of course, police violence is only a part of the repression against the people. State interventions are also a suppression in the autonomous functioning of mass bodies and trade unions that you have instituted, repression is the criminalisation of popular action and struggles, which reach the attempt to curb the demonstrations you are attempting, repression is employers' terrorism in the workplace, that is not debated much, that is to say, to the point workers of migrants are shot by bosses because they dared to claim their wages, the Morians, the modern refugee and migrant concentration camps, the floating fences in the Aegean Sea, the new plans for large prisons on the islands announced today. For all the above, the Government of New Democracy has enormous responsibilities, not only for the policies it implements, which it itself covers or tolerates, but also for all this propaganda-like uniformity by ministers, by the Prime Minister himself, from well-known and unexplained journalists who speak of the need for supposedly protection of the public space by minorities who have taken part in the convening of trade union activity, who invest in social automation. And, of course, all the above proves: that this notorious new era is at all new. It is the old age of anti-grass laws, poverty, unemployment and state repression. They prove that growth for everyone is not at all for everyone, it is for the few. They demonstrate that the national objectives which all of you have adopted so-called European regularity, investment, social peace are not at all national at all. These are the objectives of capital that, in addition to the constant blow of labour, people's rights, are needed to whip against the people's question. And those who are not convinced of the crumbs and the promises that there is indeed growth for all, are waiting for the chemicals, the criminalisation, the courts, but also for new more uploaded and more sophisticated methods of repression. It is no accident in this regard that the annual report on the security policy of the European Union, next to the blurred concepts of radicalism, terrorism, etc., for the first time explicitly and formally mentioned, as dangerous to the security of the European Union, the popular demonstrations of protest. It is the European Union's recent annual report. What did the MEPs of the other parties vote on this? The New Democracy and the Change Movement, SYRIZA White. No cold, no heat. SYRIZA's question makes some good findings. But the big question remains: Is the intensity of repression a mere product of New Democracy's governance? Is it just the choice of some obsessed and ideoleptic officials of the New Democracy, as you say? Or is it the strategic choice of the ruling class which, depending on the timing and political context, predicts when the carrot of integration and when the whip of repression and chooses the appropriate persons to carry out these designs each time? We say it's a strategic option. In the previous years, great struggles have developed, the passiveization and maintenance of the people have been served by the deception of the SYRIZA, which has inspired the logic: "There is no alternative", "This is, the Euro-Roadway, NATO" and so on. Today, on the ground of this preservativeism, New Democracy is coming to take off state violence and state repression. Of course, the fact that in the SYRIZA policy mix the dosage was in favour of integration does not mean that it also fell short of repression. Who was it who gave the first strike in the Act on Strikes with the demand for 50%+1 in the primary clubs, which New Democracy is today strengthening by releasing the misery of minority groups? Who was it who even more shielded the context of criminalisation of the popular games, for example by pronouncing, for example, a specific offence against the auctions that would be at the centre of the next period after and the lifting of which protection, the lack of which has been to date? Who was it who refused to adopt the JRC's legislative initiatives to abolish the 'terror' and the dreadful DNA provision, despite the fact that the place for the long-term unjust imprisonment of Herianna has lifted a wave of reactions? And who was it that combined with the European Union the Moria-type qualifiers which are being further strengthened today? And here we heard some amazing things. They say that on SYRIZA Mytilini was a centre of solidarity and is now a centre of the activity of extreme right-wing groups. The people of Mytilini and then today, despite the difficulties, continue to express solidarity with refugees and immigrants. But it is another thing that is the solidarity of the people of Mytilini, and it is another thing that the Moria college, which, then in SYRIZA and today in the New Democracy, is the expression of the most inhuman and brutal political caging that is being pursued by the European Union. Is all this unknown to you? Wasn't the works and days of the progressive SYRIZA? And today, what is your criticism? From the text of the question you say that with authoritarianism the New Democracy is disturbing social peace, very progressive and very left-wing. I am not talking about certain positions of SYRIZA MPs who reminded me of the criticism of members of the New Democracy when SYRIZA ruled. But let us see social peace. What does social peace mean in a society divided into classes if it does not mean class cooperation and subjection of the great majority of the people to a handful of exploiters? It's just the difference for this notorious social peace that the Right Republic seeks it, imposes it through the whip of repression, while you propose the carrot of integration and manipulation as the social democracy has always done. We don't like...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u41	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u42	I shall conclude, Mr President. I got my dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u43	You don't have any dentistry. Let me clarify, in order not to misunderstand ourselves, that only the parliamentary representative of the party asking the question is entitled. Close, if possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u44	I shall conclude, Mr President. I say again that we do not support the theories of social peace, because there cannot be such a thing in exploiting societies. And thankfully, we are. We oppose authoritarianism, we highlight the causes of this policy, we show the need to fight against the real opponent, capital, power and governments, and to reason that there can be a democratic version of capitalist barbarism and today's rotten urban state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u45	Thank you. I call on the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Antonio Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will start with what I have met - and I will not eat much time, seconds only - on Friday and Saturday when I went with the step of the Greek Solution in Mytilini and Moria. I think it would be a good thing if the Bureau were to take time to have a serious debate on what the world is dealing with there, on the other hand. And what local societies face with illegal immigrants and themselves what they face in this hellhole, which in and out of it there are twenty-two thousand people. Half of them are powerless and waterless. We've seen these with our eyes. So it's good for the House and the MPs to take a walk and then come to see what I've been stumbling around, Mr. Psychoyer, because you talked about Moria and you did well...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u47	I've been there.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u48	You've been there. So you'd see the glossaries. You'll see what they're selling. Even meat shops and bags with viagra and drugs exist. Anything you want is in there. The Greek police, Minister, can't do anything, he says. Because if he does something, they'll rise and come out to the village. I don't know how much that's true. That's the truth. From bananas to bags with viagra and meat shop have inside. This is crazy. The people are denounced stealing, Minister, from out of Moria, the sheep are slaughtered and sold in there. However, it is good, gentlemen, for us to have a debate about this hellhole and about what the Greek and Greeks are going through. The horror we saw in the eyes of ordinary people who from 4: 00 p.m. They lock themselves in their homes, they're neither a figment of our imagination nor anything. And the Greek solution will continue. Minister, do you know what's happened today because your government has come out beautifully and nicely and says it requires space for closed centers on the islands? Swinging, swinging and swinging. You don't know what you have to pull from local society. You went to Mandamandos, and what did you do? The President will tell you tomorrow in plenary, Mr Velopoulos. They are very serious, gentlemen of the New Democracy, what you are going to do. Where do you dictate spaces? What kind of space do you have, you know? You know these are S.H.I.E.L.D. spaces? What are these things? Do you understand what you're doing for national security? Where do you give these places?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u49	They don't call. The others are in charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u50	You don't know what you have to do with Greek society. Go and take a walk to Mytilini. Well, I'm not talking about snipers. With you to see what's happened. Even the District Administrator - and don't tell me that he's our regional governor or SYRIZA, he's yours, the New Democracy's gone out...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u51	I said the state doesn't demand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u52	He'll ask for the government to fall. You'll see. That's what he said. Now we're going to police force. Police brutality fortunately does not exist in our homeland. Maybe SYRIZA, because there are good lawyers on the SYRIZA, has confused the lawful police enforcement with police arbitrariness. It's the police arbitrariness. Indeed, Minister, in very few cases there has been little. I can say that this was shot down by SYRIZA himself today because it did not bring any examples of police arbitrariness to our home country, except for a slap in a child who was wrong and will be punished. No matter what the kid told him that might have offended the cop. And the cops are human beings, they're our kids. You said nothing more about large police force violence, as you are doing in America, Germany, Austria, the Netherlands and all the other countries that are supposed to be advanced. You remember the case of the Prefect of Piraeus, Mr. Micha, who went to Germany and to the airport something went to tell the police officer and ran his head down with the handcuffs and called Mr. Michas: "I am a prefect." And they said to him, "Don't talk. Here we are policemen." There are no such things here, thankfully, that there are no such things. And it's not a matter of political leadership, it's a matter of Greek police culture and its leaderships and executives, officers, but also our children, police officers are our children. Hey, guys, are we talking about police violence by our kids, 800 euros, the poor kids, who become police officers? Suddenly they became monsters? I shouldn't have, gentlemen of SYRIZA, it was your fault to bring such a timely question to the House, because the Greek policemen - and thankfully, I say it - are protecting the Greek society, the smooth, peaceful living of Greek society, the safety of citizens, because they are our children, they are poor children and they know what it means, and it is wrong, it is a great mistake to put these children together. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Torture, as the Parliamentary Representative of Officerial Representation has said, you said that you wanted to be the Minister of Police, who will have closed mouths and hands closed. Do you dream, Mr. Chrysochoid? What's this thing closed mouths and hands? The policeman when he must safeguard the property or life of the citizens will have a closed mouth and closed hands? So you said, unless you were wrong. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u53	Continue, Mr. Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u54	It is unbelievable, therefore, and I very much ask our National Representation not to use the term'military violence' again. Mr Gioka, you're very well told and you're right about a lot of what you're saying, but what's police violence? Can I tell you something? I will show it with examples and submit it here in the Minutes. You are not telling me, Mrs Gerovali, since you are here now - and Mrs Gerovali has gone through the Ministry of Citizen Protection - why is the timely question written in it, that there are also the provocations that are before evil, preventive. Thirty-three invitations to participate in the gathering for Macedonia in Thessaloniki. Mass arrests of civilians outside Pale de Sports Thessaloniki just before Mr. Tsipras' speech. Five arrests on incidents outside the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. The show "Radio Arvila" and Mr.Kanakis dedicated you a whole show about the "preventive arrests" and added: "people are for the psychiatric hospital". Because you said you were making provocations, that's why he's saying it inside. Pan-education, Maximus, incubation. Preventive admissions to the Yannitsa, before Mr. Fotis Kouvelis spoke. Attacking the MATs against cleaners outside of Maximos. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonios Mylonakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, you're not going well with crime. He hit the mother, raped the daughter and robbed them in Manola, foreign Albanian. Luckily he was arrested. This is what you look at and take the police to the streets. You will allow me to close, ladies and gentlemen, because no one has spoken of these children, who have fallen into the altar of duty, and I say it with regret, no one has been interested in the injured, the one who left behind, the police officer I mean the one who lost his life to protect us, our children, our grandchildren, no one, nor has anyone been interested in his family, his mother if he died of grief, his father, if his children who left behind grow up, how are growing up, to make a quick reference to the dead, as I found, police officers, officers and chiefs and officers. I pay tribute now. The Greek solution is a tribute, and I think Parliament is in agreement. Matis Christos, Sakoraphas Apostolos, Georgakopoulos Nikolaos, Dougenos George, George George, Bourres Vasilis, Lexis Vasilis, Kalogeras Aristotle, Stageos Georgios, Sterkoudis Christos, Lupassakis Antonios, Bersulakis Stylianos, Tsaras Konstantinos, Athanasios Christos, Kotsis Charalambos, Giannakulas Ioannis, Fountoulakis, Thanas Georgios, Kits Konstantinos, Natsios Christos, Pavlos Doorothias, Sakkas Sarantos, Kokokolakis, Ioannis Konstantinos, Vulgaris, Nikos Nikos, Nikos, Yelitis, Yelitis, Yelitis, Ioannisilisilisos, Ioannis Kolosilisilisos, Ioannis
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u55	Put it in the Minutes, Mr. Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, at the moment we are paying tribute and you are telling me to stop?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u57	You've been over ten minutes. Keep going!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u58	...Laurda Andreas, Ptyllakis Konstantinos, Anyfantakis Nikolaos, Apostolous Christos, Koromilas Anastasios, Sarolidis Athanasios, Mescanis Georgios, Champas Anastasios, Petsis Evangelos, Kotsoulos Theodoros, Athanasopoulos Georgios, Sachas Michael, Markakis Nikolaos, Tsarolidis Dimitrios, Balis Apostolos, Lappas Vasilis, Mizthras Anastas, Campouroulos Georgios, Evangelopoulos, Tsiclos Alexandros, Zaromitis Dimitrios, Bis Evangelos, Rajas Georgios, Michalakopoulou Alexandros, Tsilis Tsilidis, Yelichouris, Nichotis Kolos Konosilidis, Nicosilidis, Nicotris, Nicosilisilisilisilis Evanis, Nicos Evanis, Nicosilisilisilisilisilisilis, Iotis Kolosilisilis, Greece, Greece, Greece, Greece, Greece, Greece, Greece. Your memory eternity! We owe it to all those who lost their children and to the children who left behind. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonios Mylonakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u59	Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 Mr. Claus Gregoriadis has the floor. We said there's a tolerance, but not to reach all four and a half minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in a state that owes 330 billion at the moment to all its external lenders, in which at the same time it owes about EUR 70 billion, of which, according to all the studies that exist, it is collecting up to EUR 10 billion at the same time. In a country that has closed down some sixty thousand businesses over the last decade and workers have lost between 30% and 50% of their incomes in wages and pensions, while more than a million now, because they were two and a half million of them, have lost their jobs, and therefore they have absolutely no income, nor are they expected to acquire this in the near future. In a country whose citizens owe 70 billion to banks, but banks that - what a paradox - they would have already shut down if they themselves had not recapitalised them twice, only in the last eight years, exclusively from their economies. In a state which has committed itself to achieving primary surpluses of over 2% over the next forty years and of which, as a result of all the above, has been unholyed over the last decade of seven hundred and fifty thousand young people seeking a decent life. In a country where the relevant ministers admit that its national health system and educational system have immediate shortages of seven thousand doctors and nurses and over ten thousand teachers of all levels of education, respectively. In a country - and it is important - that the government in question can withstand and remain relatively stable, managed every time with the very same lies all the above-mentioned absurdity, but what a strange thing, it is being violently engulfed and really threatened by a collapse of Olympiacos' differences with PAOK. In such a country - please tell me, ladies and gentlemen - what kind of government is, in your opinion, a new government which is the first bill to bring to Parliament a vote is the abolition of asylum at universities? Is it a crazy government? It could be. Is this a graphic government whose Prime Minister left the wedding and goes for porcupines? Or is it a very, very dangerous government in the end? The issue of police violence, arbitrariness and repression are being watched closely at the Mera25 since the start of the current parliamentary term. We are also concerned about strengthening the police rule and the practices of violence by the security forces, but also about highlighting the causes of crime and proposing solutions to them, so that by eliminating these causes it will gradually reduce and reduce infraction and crime. Of course the dogma announced by the New Democracy Government - already from the pre-election period, we all remember - what we typically used to hear and call 'law and order', except that it echoes the government's pursuit of a more conservative, more fearful and less open and tolerant society, uses the fear and insecurity that has now been installed in the minds and thoughts of the middle Greek citizen, after a greedy decade of economic crisis, which has quickly reincarnated into a crisis of values and consciences. Thus, the political aim of the New Democracy - with the good cooperation of the terrorist media - has targeted and targeted fear and promised that it will give a solution to the deadlock, will again offer order and security. Who's that? In the famous - let me remember - since the Samaras 'housewives' era, who have also been housewives - let me remind you - they have already had time to vote and bring to the Greek Parliament the fascist formula of the Golden Dawn, they have already decided that refugees and immigrants who have been invaded in our country should remain imprisoned in hot spots, because otherwise they would threaten our racial cohesion and our Greek identity, while, at the same time, they themselves have taken their nice 5 euros and 10 euros to provide - you will all remember it - a mobile phone charge on the islands, for refugees. These same householders had killed, day after day, with punches and kicks in the center of Athens, an active member of the LGBTKI community, and allowed the parapolitical invasion battalions - these always housewifes - fascist gangs, Golden Dawn, I mean, killing Egyptian fathers children and - what terrible? - Greek mothers. There are those too. On this fear, in this darkness, New Democracy placed an ex officio in the position of the Minister of Civil Protection Mr.Michalis Chrysochoidis, a person symbolic, who has linked his name and political career to successes of the police in the past, which the conservative voters of the New Democracy like and consider successful and effective. This is how Mr Chrysochoidis, let me say, execute a contract. He himself as a guest star - or at another reading as a lamb - the political cost, while any political benefits will come from the right public, are credited to the party and Mr Mitsotakis himself. It is so, ladies and gentlemen, when you are an ideal prisoner! The only power you can expect your prisoners will give you is to keep the rest of your herd on their behalf! And as much as the government prejudges that all this unjustified police rule and blind violence is intended to restore law and order, we all understand that it is in fact intended to make it difficult or even annihilate the struggles of the people and the uprisings of the Greek people, which I inform you is just coming over and over and over. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It would therefore be a good thing if the Qualified Opposition were to say that, with actions such as this timely question of sixty Members, which we are debating today, it denounces such a government and even better, let me say, it is doing so for the first time today - I note this - in the wording of this timely question of our permanent wording of Mera25 on parasitic oligarchy. I don't know if you noticed, but it's about time. But to be fair and accurate with everyone in here, listen a little bit. I read to you: “In unprecedented manifestations of violence and illegality they fled on Wednesday night units of MATs against protesters who were already arrested during the demonstration in the Constitution and were already in the hands of the police. According to evidence a protester kept him in the cage and beat him with furiousness. Protesters who had been arrested and watched the feast of violence in the cage, through the patrol cars that were already in existence, were shocked that they would beg the police to wait a little longer, fearing the worst if they left and leave this damn cunt alone." Other: "The wood continued all the way to GADA and within the headquarters building violence took the form of torture. To a team...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u61	Have we ever asked the cops?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u62	They're not yours. Don't rush! I am continuing: "In a group of insulting policemen asked them to be counted behind each other, stretching hands to the shoulder of the front and then beat them violently with clubs in their hands. In another variant of the same torture, they were asked to bring...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u63	In a movie, the...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u64	Don't rush, you'll be glad!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u65	Are we going to "thank you" another one?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u66	...hands on the nose and then beat them with clubs on the sides." Other: “The actions of the police are a model of torture. These are malicious acts that sue for torture." Totally irreparable, someone would say about this violence...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u67	Finish, Mr. Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u68	I shall conclude, Mr President. Don't tell me that Mr. Kamines was more handsome than I was, or the Parliamentary spokesman of the JRC is more handsome than I am, because I can't imagine any other reason why I have to complete my speech faster! [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] You'll be glad at the end, a little patience!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u69	But we're already happy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u70	Completely irreparable, would anyone say, in terms of this violence, Mitsotakis government, eh? Except that all of the above publications, unfortunately - and I say with my personal regret - do not concern any Mitsotakis government, do not concern any systemic media, because they come almost all from the "Publishers' Newspaper" and have dates, such as 17-7-2015, 21-12-2015 and 14-3-2017... Did you see how happy you were?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u71	We were in a hurry!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u72	So, you're surprised? These are publications about the period when you, the former friends of SYRIZA, ruled. Unfortunately, we also have to recall that the very practice of guest star and Mr Chrysochoidis had been followed by SYRIZA, when he had assigned the position of Civilian Minister to Mr Toska, who was not your representative, but was from the Movement of Ideas and Action "TRATTO". Let us not forget that for your days MATs have not just been abolished, but have been systematically used to suppress it during rhetoric, strikes, etc., while maintaining an unregulated left rhetoric. And I shall end right away, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the unscrupulous conclusion for right-wing and left-wing prisoners and prisoners of the colonial debt-payers named Greece is that, since they have been practically banned from ruling this country in all its critical areas, they are only allowed to be terrified and when they need to beat and arrest its citizens, so that the bailiffs are not uprooted and thus earning a little more political time, which they will continue to be wasted by pretending to be in power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u73	The Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Spilios Lebanese, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate could indeed be an opportunity to discuss and check what - very few cases of abuse of authority on the part of the police authorities, or could even be a cute debate as Mr Grigoriades tried to move it forward with his comments, which I appreciate, but I think he was a little offended to the personal attack on the Minister, rather than in the context of this logic that I said before. However, we cannot have this debate today, because we see that SYRIZA once again is actually being served in a sterile opposition to the sterile opposition. Without arguments, you practically went into total populism again. The disgraceful aggression, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, was not the completely moderate and moderate position of the Minister for his predecessor, Mr Gerovaci, in his view even the different one. On the contrary - and this must be recalled by those of you who have referred to these issues - were, of course, the minimum category of SYRIZA officials from those who have spoken of torture and the set-up competitions at a huge cost of hundreds of millions of millions, supposedly covered by New Democracy donors. This is an innocuous attack, and here we are waiting for a revocation and an answer. Also, innocence is the constant reference to some of your thoughts about the rhetoric matching between New Democracy and extreme right-wing athletes, an idolized New Democracy by the creation of a far-right state. The New Democracy - we've told you here before - has also told you, Mr. Mitsotakis - is the great proud democratic party that has put 'plate' at all the critical moments of history. So these places are returned. We are telling you that our protract is the fact that is inspired by political liberalism and is governed by democratic realism. Relations with the far right and the Golden Dawn, which you often insinuate, I think they should not be mentioned in this Chamber and I show you again the pictures of your executives who were with Mr. Kammenos and Mr. Kassidiari on beautiful tours throughout Greece. Reverting back to the category of identities - we expect to hear from you after numbers specific and arguments - Mr Chrysochoidis told you what our arguments on the issue of the identity contest are. If you do not respond, that means that you are again pushing towards populism and the unfounded accusations are precisely what you have accused us of. Finally, you said that the government has not done a great deal of work in this area and has not actually done a serious account. I am tabling a report on the progress of the Ministry to date. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Lebanese, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also, I'm filing a police report that says monthly what he's doing, so you don't have to worry about it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Lebanese, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So your question proves that you are ideologically opposed to the concept of the security of citizens, social peace and fairness. You have practically 'allergies' with safety, and this proves to be because you signed this question sixty-eight of you, but today, you were only thirteen and if we count you now, you are five. So it is so much your relationship with this and so much your anxiety. Let us bring your Members here, at least show you are interested in the issue that we are discussing. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Also undeniable witness to this "allergies" are your statement of officials in all previous years. Mrs Cassimatis, who is still in the ranks of your parliamentary group, said the so-called 'bottom-guns-killers'. Mr Kyritsis said: 'I do not remember anyone dying of molotov', with unprecedented disrespect for the dead of MARFIN. And don't sigh, because that's reality, unfortunately. Another Member said to you: 'Which legal good offends the simple occupation of a molotov bomb?' You embraced the indiscriminateness, saying that "well they break the doors of the HEIs with a chainsaw" - you are here I think - and "hunting" Ruvikon, when Mr. Toskas himself described him as "an ideological baby that squeezes" and Mr. Kritsis said that "Ruvikon" is a political group that makes activism". For us, and for the vast majority of the Greek people, the occupation of foreign property is not civilisation, it is raw violence. You, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA. On your day practically what did you do? You have legislated impunity with the infamous Act of Friday. The capital was handed over to lawlessness and tripled - and that is why you should also speak to us in your dentistry - the attacks of anti-unionists. According to the Citizens’ Counselor, which you did not deny, three hundred and twenty-one incidents of police violence took place during the days of your entire government. What did you do about them? We're waiting for you to tell us. How many of these did you send to the competent prosecutors? Also, Mr Janakopoulou, when you come back again, tell us whether we forget or do you want to forget. However, today you come to blame this government for incidents that have not yet been judged. You did not show any sensitivity to these issues when you were throwing chemicals to pensioners outside the Maximos Palace or to Syntagma Square the other chemicals, when citizens, Greeks and they protested against the Embassy Agreement. But the New Democracy is not SYRIZA. We don't see violence in good and bad. We don't close our eyes, unlike you that in some cases you're just overactive. In the unacceptable violation of the family asylum journalist you have issued one - you will allow me - a funny announcement from your relevant department. The Minister assured you before, we have assured you in the past, and I now assure you that all charges - if I am not mistaken, are two minutes - will be investigated by the competent authorities with regard to police violence and the guilty, as he said before, will be judged and punished accordingly. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, the vast majority of the police officers of the EL.AS. It can be seen from a sense of duty and responsibility towards society. Some of them can even characterize them as heroes, such as secret policemen who, at the risk of their lives, entered the drug cartels in Astako. They face extreme groups that you have allowed with your tolerance to harvest. The cementstones in Cookie prove the courage of some of you. However, ELPA will do its duty and give Greek citizens a sense of security. Personally, I prefer the doctrine of 'law and security' in my view. But whether you say it 'law and security', or say it 'law and order', respect for the law is an essential condition for the well-being of our country. The relationship between the rule of law and the state monopolist of violence is not opposing and paradoxical, as a serious theorist could support if you had it in your ranks today in here. On the contrary. It's a structural relationship and an intact relationship. Proven, theoretically, in terms of the text of the teachers around the world, but also in practical terms from life. How else could we protect, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, the public goods of the rule of law and the constitutional security of everyone, without the separation of the citizens of the state and the sovereign people? After all, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, let us speak frankly or rather speak frankly at some point. The ability to exercise state violence is the basis of the functioning of the modern democratic state. The alternative to this - and I want an answer from you later - is either violence, chaos and anarchy, or the privatisation of state repression by establishing private police and other such bodies. Tell us after all: These solutions you suggest? We're clean anyway. We believe in the law and its application. At the same time, however, this obedience is accompanied by respect for fundamental rights, which complete the 'vote' of the rule of law which we serve. We therefore believe in the social functionality of the state monopoly of violence, in the procedures of stabilisation, peace and disciplinary civil society. Ladies and gentlemen, we are applying the policy, as the Minister said, for which the Greek people were practically elected to us. We are proud of this policy and, in the end, we will be judged by it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, too. Good evening, and good week from me. Mr. Raguss has the floor from SYRIZA for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, listening carefully to both the Minister and the Parliamentary Representative of New Democracy has two roads. One way is to get angry and the second way is simply to react with very great soberness and calmness. Because, in fact, any of you in the staff working out strategies for the government's progress will have realised that this evening the government's government's and government's narratives collapsed both at the same time. And I explain: Personally, with the dear Michael Chrysochoid, if I say that we have a audience, it will go your mind all of you that I am talking about in our past as PASOK members and executives. But that is not what I am talking about. I am referring to the fact that we have done both ministers, as dear Michael knows. And since I, too, have sat on these benches, I am very well aware of what it means to have a debate on a topical question, in which seventeenths of the number, of major objections to the government, cannot be raised - with the exception of three cases, which I shall mention below - a reaction, one answer, one argument. This all, I repeat, for those who have a little temper and understand, they show from the time they happen just in the first seven months of governance, what is going to follow for you. We are talking - it says - about 'the right-wing state'. And we hear this question from the Minister, the member of the government - because the responsibility lies with the Prime Minister and collectively with the government - who carried out the hardest pogrom of party persecution, which has turned Greece back decades. It's a setback that everyone should be ashamed of and ashamed of! With what political argument, on what basis, can a government take a mandate to form a government and the first thing it does - as you did - is to expel all the executives of the Greek Police? That was decades ago and you brought it back. And in their place you were attacked, I said a characteristic example, the one who had resigned for the tragedy in Matti. He was forced by Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras to resign. And we're talking - he says - about the state of the right. Isn't that a party persecution pogrom, which you spread across the country? Aren't you ashamed of Chirigoti, who you've retired, and so many other worthy officers, the chief of police, executives across Greece, on the sole criterion that he changed a party to the government? And you have the courage to speak and give up for us why are we talking? Of course, we're talking and we're talking! Because this is a black stigma that will accompany you forever! Didn't you demolition the law to make the Confederate Commander of the NSA? And you go talk to the kids about Brain Drain and about excellence? Why was he a friend of Mitsotakis? And have you enacted a law that you now say in Greece can become the other commander or manager without having a degree? Why are you all addicted to every Contolete? Aren't you hiring outside CAP and not all Greeks? Haven't you received a lot of special guards, instead of policemen through Panhellenics and with little education, at the expense of their own security, and above all of citizens' security? You've thrown them off the streets! Was Corconese a special guard who murdered Gregoropoulos and, in the absence of training, came to react with reflexes that did not respond to police officers or would not respond to police officers in his place? Don't you have anything to say about the allowance? You say you care about the cops. It was to give them 120 euros for the holidays. You added 5 million costs to your office. And you didn't have 120 euros to give fifty thousand Greek and Greek police officers? We have a report of burnt cars every morning we wake up. How many cars last night are burnt? These horrors - we agree with the statement - that the tolerance of various groups of goose mackerel expires on 8 July, we have not told them, Mr Parliamentary Representative. The President has told you. These ridiculous things that we 'complete with Ruvikon' on July 8th', your President and current Prime Minister have told them. With the propaganda "I will finish in Exarchia from the first month", this hormone type of propaganda, you have taken the election. He went out to 'REALNEWS' and said 'I'll finish the Exarches from the first month'. And the "Rubic" is partying with you every day! And we're not celebrating about it. But we will not allow you to continue with this degrading propaganda, which in the end also insults your intelligence from the time you use it and defend it. And will you continue here in front of us the slandering, the extreme right slandering, at the expense of Officer Opposition, SYRIZA, the progressive party, which in the end has ruled for four and a half years? And are you going to say that we, supposedly, are followers, or are we covering up illegal acts or illegitimate practices of "Rubicon" or anyone? Shame on you! Shame on you! Enter 112 now, dear Mr. Chrysochide - you keep your mobile - on your Ministry's site. You have made full ceremonies at the beginning of the year "112 in full operation". Anyone who now enters the website of the Ministry of Civil Protection to press the "112" emergency button. It reads "the page was not found". Finally the state of Kyriakos Mitsotakis! Take a seat. We're telling you very clearly. You are irresponsible, you are preoccupied, and you are dangerous for Greek society and your views, when you are trying to present crime as an issue that Chrysochoidis, the sheriff, Mitsotakis, will come to clean it up. You're taking her down and you know it! Look at the video we made public. Because, of course, if you don't have a comprehensive plan to deal with crime, the causes that produce it don't go away because the government changed and someone else sits in Maximos compared to the one who was sitting before. It's funny to say all that! They're unscientific jokes that offend everyone's intelligence! As for the Cocoa, is it a lie? Who made this written statement - in response to Mr Alivizato with the address 'dear, Mr Alivizato'? Did the senator do it? Did Janakopoulos do it? Did I do it? 'There were no acts of police violence'. This picture here, with Indar beaten in his house, makes you, Mr. Chrysochoid, finally feel the need, in the name of your history and your path, to apologize to this man?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u77	Please, you're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u78	I shall conclude, Mr President. Just two reports. Is the New Democracy Government's police brutality? Has the Mitsotakis Prime Minister and Chrysochoidis become Minister and we say that the police have been unleashed and now there are cases of police violence that were not there before? Of course not! We've never said that. That's a lie, too. That is why, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, they had gone to the Citizens' Counselor for cases you mentioned. They had gone to the Citizen's Counsel. Because, of course, there were, there are, and there'll be cases. What the governments are judging is not whether every policeman of the fifty thousand wakes up one day and decides not to observe his oath, not to observe the code of conduct of the police. But what governments are judged for is how they react.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u79	How did this government react?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u80	Yeah, how they react. Saying it's a lie that Indar was beaten in his house and brought letters that say no police force! And then they light the green light on all the other cops to follow the same path!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u81	Finish, Mr. Ragossi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u82	That's why we're getting into incidents behind each other! And last. We, yes, need security for society. We always wanted security. But we have a big difference with you, at least on the right, historically, over time. We're dealing with the Security Forces as in the Armed Forces. We're not making part of the party game. We do not use them as the Right was used in the 1950s and 1960s to hit the Left, the progressive party, the democratic world. We want her out of the party game at the Greek Police. You put the Greek Police in the party game. Why are you playing this dirty game against anti-Population today, the government yesterday, the government tomorrow. And, of course, we care about the cops. You don't care about cops! Because if you care, Mr. Chrysochoid, we've told you a lot of incidents - to go for a walk from the police department tomorrow. And I told you very honestly that these problems - which we told you here - did not start when you took over. There were before. But it's been seven months and the police are still cleaning up at their own expense.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u83	Thank you. I know Mr. Mylonakis has done her. If I don't let you go, you'll say that my guy spoke more and right. But let's get a little closer to time, please. Mrs Gerovali has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u84	It wasn't just Mr. Mylonakis. There were others. I'll also be abused by two minutes a year. The challenges in this debate are many.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u85	You're right. I said it more to relax it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u86	Given that I was the last Minister before Mr Chrysochide, the challenges are many in this debate. But I won't give up, so I'll really be in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u87	Under the Rules of Procedure, if you want to say about your work, you have plus five minutes. I'm telling you, I tortured it. You've got five minutes more because you're a former minister. You should know that. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u88	Before entering the two that I want to answer, I would like to say, Minister, when you go to a neighborhood and tell you that finally on these streets the police that had never arrived before, I would recommend that you go right to the following person. Also, when you go to streets like Anthonydou, as soon as you leave, go back in an hour. I am not saying this because we have had no problems in my day. Alas! I say it because this is really the case. And I never went out to be happy, because Anthonyado was finally in good condition, because there was really a lasting situation and a constant struggle. I will speak only on two issues which I have raised quite clearly and logically. I will respond first to Mr Mylonakis on the issue of preventive admissions. Mr Mylonakis, I will assure you that there has never been any preventive induction in these days. All the requests you mentioned, several of them were made, but they were not preventive. They were in individuals who proved to be motivated in acts of violence either physically, directly or through the Internet. And there were regular intakes. This could have been done before concentrations, but they were proven to be normal inductions. Also, I would remind you, Mr. Mylonakis, that at the Macedonian rally in the Syntagma square many "patriots" educated in raid battalions were provoked by the policemen who guarded Parliament and who defended them. They were beaten with iron locks, which were decorated with the Greek flag! The police were eating iron loots with the Greek flag on top of these "patriots". And then there was no complaint about the violence against the police. Twenty-seven officers went to the hospital. He was twenty-seven young children. And two, three of them came out after a month of hospital fighting. But it didn't open a nose, that's not what we talked about! And I'm getting to the I.D. I think it was 19 April 2019 that we had the contest for security documents - not just the identities - of 515 million. The terms of the tender were transparent and were given to twenty-seven companies that had the specifications to meet the invitation. There was a basic criterion that these companies - it was an international competition - had to have done some corresponding work on European soil, just to make companies credible. From 19 April until we left the government - I do not know what complaints came to you - there was no protest, there was no report and no company complained. It was also deemed to be a very objective and transparent competition, as much as possible under the terms of confidentiality. But that contest wasn't blamed by someone. This competition therefore met all the criteria which came under European directives and also the international obligations of our country and to the international organisation of airports and under all safety conditions. It was done with a black and white ID. And it was predicted that if, in five years' time, something changed in European data and Europe needed to say that it would not be the photograph, but it would be the case, it would have foreseen it so that the printing of documents would not have a problem. That's why he was there before. You didn't do it earlier. There was no need today for color photography. The black and white photograph is international practice. It is in most countries and in Europe. Only three countries in Europe have a colour photograph. And in America some colored countries retreat to black and white. After all this investigation has been carried out and for many technical reasons etc., this has been chosen. Not to say technical details now. And of course, the ID chip had space for what was required for digital governance, such as digital signature. That was in the chip. It is absolutely a lie - what is said - that was not predicted, because we are not with growth and this incredible scenario! Obviously, we anticipated it. But he hasn't been in the first place. Why? How many citizens today can by electronic signature have services from the Greek state, except public works contractors in electronic tenders? Almost no one else. So there's a charge, because the digital signature will be paid by the citizen. She's buying the digital signature. Today it's about 50 euros every two years. Why do I have to put that cost today, while the digital signature isn't so widespread? But I have the space to put it in as soon as it is. So - there are all the objections, all those which are heard as answers - Minister, please see the competition only, because some tell you incompletely or falsely. I don't know. The importance, however, on the first day of stopping this competition - which proved to be no problem - raises various suspicions, not to me personally necessarily. There were, then, reports in Kathimerini, “Dimouratias”, “News”, “SEE” and “DOCUMENTO”. The fuss took place on the 'SECURITARIAN' and 'DOCUMENTO'. And here's a thing. Government officials attack freelance after the publications that - as I said to you - existed in the other newspapers. It also attacked the 'DOCUMENTO' and 'DOCUMENTO'. In any case, this disagreement will sometimes be resolved and will accept what it is. There might be twenty-seven companies coming in. If all twenty-seven come, then good. If two come in, if one comes, then who'll be right about what we're talking about? So this cannot be another reason to hit freelance in the country and put it back with journalists, because they have referred to these questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u89	And finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u90	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u91	Be well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u92	Thanks for the tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, personal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u94	You have no right under the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Ithanasia Anagnostopoulou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u95	Thank you. The Minister said a lot, but the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy did say to us that if we had any theory, he would respond. Fortunately we have many theorists and we read, Mr Levane. Lawful exercise of the violence by the state. That's our big difference. The state sees it as an institution of power which has the monopoly of violence and can legalise repression against democratic realism, as you have said. Watch out for your expressions. Democracy is the only realism, there is no democratic realism and democratic utopia. For us, not just for the Left, for the whole liberal world, the state is a grid of institutions, rules and restrictions. All its responsibilities, like state violence, must comply with the rules of law, because the law restricts, determines, and ultimately humanises its exercise. As democratic parties we are obliged - all democratic parties - to come to the House and to invoke the Minister for Civil Protection when this exercise of violence is violated by the state, this monopoly. So I do not understand either the Minister or you, when you come here and say "the SYRIZA lies and the SYRIZA lies". Are these published? Are there any complaints to the Citizen's Counselor? Are there any in various agencies? Are we obliged to be a democratic party? And I'm glad Claus Gregoriadis said about us. And I wish the New Democracy, which was applauding when she was happy, would have asked us a timely question if that were the case. This must make a democratically elected party, which respects democracy, if there are any arbitrary effects. Because, look, violence, when it is exercised by those who have power, then there is a problem, there parliamentary parties are obliged to ask questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u96	But we didn't accuse you, we want this debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u97	And I'll close with one thing, Mr. Levant. That's what another colleague of yours used to say. You ask us every three minutes to apologize for condemning the violence, and I tell you, Minister, because I have heard you say so many times if SYRIZA condemns it. Personally as a SYRIZA, as a member of a party all my life, which I know has nothing to do with violence, I refuse to apologize to you. Would you like to open a historical debate on violence? I refuse to apologize to you. Apologise for what? When did we break up violence? When did we say violence was a good thing, no matter where it comes from? On the contrary, you didn't find a talk, which Mrs. Gerovas mentioned, to speak when violence was committed against the police, but then it was "good" violence, it was the children who had the flag Greek at their side. Well, let's get this over with. I personally deny any apology to whether we are in favour of violence or are not in favour of violence. And we do not grant our right to prosecute the government whenever we see that there is arbitraryness in the exercise of the monopoly of violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much for keeping time. Before giving the floor to the Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have also been informed about the history of the building and the way in which the House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", forty students and students and two teachers from the 4th General School of Dramas. The House welcomes you and wishes you good progress. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Ragossi, something you have shown, did you want to testify and forget?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u99	Yes, thank you, Mr President, for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u100	Mr President-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to answer the substance of your question, proof that I have discovered it almost a point to the point, but unfortunately, slogans are written, slogans are shouting, and with slogans you are discussing. First of all, I cannot answer Mr Janakopoulos. I was saved by empathy, vainology and nonexistent logic. And I'm ending here. It's just that I'm very impressed at all the things that sound about right here about right-wing, right-wing. I'm sorry, SYRIZA has been a partner for five years at the same table as the worst ethnicist ever existed in this country in recent years, Mr. Kammenos's party. But that's a shame. And you're talking about right and right? Secondly, I address my friend, Mr Giannis Ragosi, with whom we also have a route and a friendly and policy for a long time. I am obliged here to do something which I really regard as a point and then as unnecessary, but I have to do so, namely explain the things I have explained a thousand times. So my answer to Mr. Alivizato had nothing to do with whether or not violence was being committed, he had only one thing to do. Mr. Alvizatus denounced that on that day that his opinion had reportedly violated the asylum of the residence. Well, there was no violation of the asylum of the dwelling. How to do it! Three prosecutors were present there. Prosecutor's office also announced. So why the asylum was violated, and why please...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u102	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u103	Please, he didn't interrupt you. Mr. Ragosisi, he's your friend.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u104	It's the letter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u105	No, there's no such thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Ragosi, let him finish. I'll talk to Mr. Janakopoulos later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Alivizatos has denounced...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u108	Your letter says that no police violence was carried out, doesn't say they went in without a prosecutor...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u109	The asylum didn't break, he says. Let's go down. The second is this. I heard here about the Exarches. For God's sake. In Exarchea right now, now that we're talking, there's pedestrian patrols, there's police officers with scooters, there's police officers with scooters, there's police officers with the MATs that's there, all the police are there. Exarches in a few weeks' time will now be a normal neighborhood, because there is none of the things that have existed forty years and why we have finally decided on this wonderful neighborhood to give it to its inhabitants, this very simple and nothing else. Thirdly, '112' must tell you that it is a conquest of the country, it is a conquest of citizens, it saves lives and it works. Right now, if you go to the Forest Fire Center in Halandri, there are fifteen to twenty people on an eight-hour basis permanently working. Also in the "100" here in the GAAP, on Alexandra Avenue there is a part of "112" that answers and saves lives, and it is done today, it works, it works. It is a good thing, and we must promote it even more. And finally, as far as the issue of crises and partyism is concerned, what can I say now? There were crises in the police last night. Did you hear any comments? Were there any party criteria? "Slaughtered" any officers? Do you want to have this conversation? I don't want to. Because if we do, you'll really be sure you'll be exposed. I don't want to have this conversation. I will end in particular with the issue of identities. I haven't received any complaints about this competition either. I read things. Well, I'm reading it. The question is what are you adopting? And in any case, we come here and we answer. We answer in writing, answer orally. We're explaining. I have already listened with great respect to Mrs Gerovas, but there are things that are extremist here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u110	And that's what we say, we don't say any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u111	In any case, the contest will be held on time, that is to say, the whole question eventually ends up in how many companies will come. We'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u112	We'll see!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u113	We'll see soon enough. When tenders are submitted, it will appear whether or not competition will work. I believe that competition will work, because the competition is intact, it is in accordance with the law and it is in competition. Here we go, and we'll see. What we have said to date, and I and the Government, on the question of security, are valid and because a number of things have been heard I want to answer. First of all, you talked about the universities. The police have no business in the universities, but when there are no yachts in the universities, there are no criminals and there is no illegality. Because you told me about Antonyudou, I will tell you that in Antonyados there was a huge drug storehouse, pounds of heroin, fixes, and there was underground passage between this old building and ASE where it came out about where all of them were, this festival of hundreds of traffickers, where among others they sold drugs and illegal products. Who maintained these? Are there these today? Are there any people selling the bags, the commercial goods? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u114	Yeah, obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u115	Yes!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u116	Are there today those selling drugs? There's a fight every day. If you go now, you will see that there are police forces that fight because there is also the issue of users - and these are serious things - which is the issue of users, namely people who are ill, it is an issue that wants more global and universal treatment, which is why we brought here the day before yesterday an amendment in which we allow municipalities to make special controlled spaces. "Rubicon" and each "Rubic" will either comply with the law or suffer the consequences. What I am saying to you is very clear and it is my statement concerning all those who believe that they can bring about fairness in that country. We are moving as we have planned, without undermining voices and challenges. I return to reality, namely police violence and repetitive and irresponsible claims. Who do you blame for the state of the right, Mr. and Mr. SYRIZA? Which government are you accusing of terror and affliction? When will you finally stop lying? To end with a propaganda that is not worthy of any of us, this horror and fighting, that state of the right that you have said did in seven months at institutional and operational level what you should have done for many years now. We reset the discreet into the uniforms of all police officers, including MATs. Where were those things four years? Why didn't you do it? I had implemented it in my second term in 2010 and 2012, 2013 - I don't know when - discreet ones disappeared. So here's where we're bringing them back. We have set up an independent committee, that of Mr Alivizatos, to oversee the implementation of the findings of the Citizens' Co-rapporteur. Not even one awkward conversation you couldn't find to say about this thing. We have changed the disciplinary law of the police according to suggestions made by the Citizens' Counselor, that is, the Office has complied with that the internal control of arbitrariness in the body should be carried out with additional guarantees of impartiality, with time-limits in particular, with transparency and traceability. He asked you in his annual report in 2018 by the Citizens' Counsel. We legislated on what the Citizens' Prosecutor requested in 2018, in order to facilitate his work, recently, here in the Bill on Civil Protection, and yes, in December 2018, the Citizens' Counselor requested these in a letter to the then Minister of Justice, i.e. to have an inquiry, to be his conclusion on the basis of a decision, to oblige police services to cooperate within certain time limits, what is needed for a rule of law. There are seven points which significantly enhance the role of the independent authority. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You didn't even answer it. We legislated. In a few weeks' time from now all police operations and order units will have a camera, such as throughout Europe, that is to say, the MATs and a lot of patrols and, in general, all operations will be carried out under the camera's eyes and according to the law and the relevant presidential decree, a proven self-determination measure of the police and a deterrent measure for infraction. You should have implemented it long ago. With these interventions, we have created a consistent and operational institutional framework and an operational mechanism to deal with, control and, above all, prevent police violence. In seven months, then, ladies and gentlemen, we did what SYRIZA did not think in the four years. So what are we talking about? I think that what is happening today is that the issue is being used in a general manner. They asked you to do it and you never did it. You didn't even bring back any discrepancies and you don't even have the political courage to recognize our effort. After all, ladies and gentlemen, home and democracy helps this whole affair. Police and citizens are helping the institutional armour and operational upgrades that have taken place. So I challenge you to answer one of the measures we have taken. Why didn't you do it then? Know something and I'm ending with it: When you ask, you get an answer. The lies are over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u117	Thank you. Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA Mr Dimitrios Janakopoulos has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Chrysochoidis insisted in his reply that he had solved all the problems that had not been solved for forty years either in Exarchia or in the wider historic center of Athens within seven months. We are left with nothing but congratulating him, and he must go and say congratulations to his Prime Minister who chose him, to tell him his Prime Minister, to congratulate him, who is so good Minister, and to all go to our home. However, I think we should be a little bit more serious about having a debate that is, once again, appropriate - in this Chamber and in the intelligence of the Members who are listening to us and the citizens who are listening to us. What did Mr Chrysochoidis choose today, not only in his first speech, but also in his second speech? To repeat the very same account, what he has been saying for seven months, but what his prolongation has been saying for several years, that SYRIZA allegedly tolerates or caressssss crime and chooses to identify a whole political area, an entire political party with illegal and criminal practices. That is exactly the point at which it is justified and fully confirming what we have said throughout this whole debate in our speeches, but also what I have accused him of in my speech, namely that it repeats all of the alternative right's narratives. And to get to know, for reasons related to the memorandum - because we have heard a accusation that we have conflicted with Mr Kammenos - that the political positions of the political forces at the time, SYRIZA made a political choice and, indeed, he has colluded with Mr Kammenos. Mr Chrysochoidis, I would remind you, because you seem to forget it, that during this conflict the law on the acquisition of Greek citizenship by children of second generation migrants has passed. You, Mr Chrysochoid, agree with this law because the New Democracy does not agree? Secondly, we managed to pass on the Gender ID law. You agree with this law, because the fact that you are involved in and of which you are a Minister does not agree. We managed to get through the extension of the cohabitation pact and to homogeneous couples. You agree with this intervention, because the fact that you are serving does not agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u119	Why do you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u120	Because you voted against it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u121	No da, we voted at will. I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u122	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u123	We managed to get through the Prespecies Agreement, Mr Chrysochide, with which - I do not know - you agree? I expect you to comment on us and then come and teach SYRIZA about the extreme right. Listen: the one who has bought the whole account of the alternative right, its practices and political options, is you. So since you did not respond and choose not to answer me - you did not want, because I, you say, say that I am obsessed - and comment on all of what I mentioned in my speech on the issues of police violence and arbitrariness, which are namefully denounced and for which you should be careful too long before the judicial proceedings and the jurors are completed, let them "is all lies, it is all lies, SYRIZA discovered them", because all these complaints are branded, one by one. I'll tell you something more. You did not want to respond to the crises in Mr Ragosi, who is not a person. You said 'e, I don't want to answer that now, because it's not the time'. When's the time? Answer me. But you did not want to answer what Mrs Gerovas said to you, and you did not even bring us the three complaints you made. And I wonder, after you threw them away, how are you gonna get them for us? Will you bring us these complaints to see and evaluate them? Or are you flying in the air reviews to create impressions, as you have been doing for seven months and then implicitly recalling them? So I invite you directly to bring us the complaints you have received and you have a responsibility to do so to this House, to be evaluated to see who is right and who is wrong. But you did not want to reply to the NSA or Mr. Koncoleion's choice and the choice of your Government to change the law, so that he can appoint a commander of the NSA, after you had made the announcement of his appointment, without a degree. You did not want to reply to Mrs Tsirigotis, an excellent officer, who you decided to make early retirement because you obviously did not like the way in which humanitarian and a deepest sense of responsibility managed the very difficult issue of the refugee question. For answer, why have you decommissioned her? You did not want to respond to the attacks of the thousands of five hundred policemen that you are turning into a party and personal political army of yours. I understand and share the extremely great political difficulties you face, but these difficulties will not be paid by Parliament. We're waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much. Minister, you have five minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u125	Just one word, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u126	Please, as many as you like!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u127	Because that is what I owe for reasons of democratic order to formulate it and it has happened in the past. I have never attempted on my way to identify a political party, any political party - except what I fought in practice and operationally, namely the golden people and the far right-wing ones - with illegal acts or illegal perceptions. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Janakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u129	Mr Chrysochide, it is obvious that you want to escape from political questions. This also shows your inability to give clear political answers. Here you know, the Civic Opposition speaks to you. You are a minister and you must respond to the parliamentary control that is being exercised on you. I do not know what kind of civilisation the Minister considers himself to be above parliamentary control. Take care of that, we'll be here and I'll see you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u130	Minister, please hang up with a line.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u131	No, no. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u132	Good. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on No 4/3/9-12-2019 by SYRIZA Members' topical and urgent question to the Minister for Civil Protection. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-10-S1-commons.u133	With the agreement of the House at 20.29 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, 11 February 2020, at 12.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
