ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Jesus Christ, many years to all. It's always healthy... it's "refren", which is to be said! We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Structuring it from 30.3.20 P.N. ‘Counterfeit pandemic measures COVID -19 and other emergency provisions’ (A'75)’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 9 April 2020 that the draft law should be discussed at a meeting in accordance with the procedure of the organised debate on the principle, on the articles, amendments and the whole. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. The speaker of the New Democrat and Members of Parliament, Mr Dimitrios Markopoulos, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish everyone the best. Yesterday, the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Zachariadis, urged us to monitor the support packages from other countries. He stressed that inevitably different ideological streams conflict, left and right strategies. The progressive and conservative party is in a conflict. As rapporteur for the Change Movement, Mr Katrinis stressed that the coronary has already injured democracy. But like the best rapporteurs from the other parties, we live here. We live in Greece. I think we have many reasons, even for a rare moment in our post-government history, to be proud. To make a comparison, Mr. Zachariadis. Spain, therefore, counts twenty-two thousand and fifty-seven deaths so far, two hundred and thirteen thousand cases. Italy with another type of government has virtually twenty - five thousand deaths and eighty - three thousand cases. And you know the rest of the problems across Europe. We Greeks, then, did it sanitary. With our own powers, we've come out unscathed. As much as many of them laughed, no matter how much they tried to break the glass of consensus, the Greek had worked together and properly. We are proud that we have created an island of health security in the country, respecting the rules, but also with democracy and the parliamentary institutions acting. I will not dwell on generalizations and jokes, such as reports by opposition media, which they pointed out in vulgar terms that popular freedoms have been "in the plaster" and something cute. We have turned against those leaders - and I am referring specifically to Mr Orban - who wanted to use and work the coronary as a precipitation tool. We have kept Parliament open. We moved in the light. We're all here today to talk. We didn't set up ministerial councils in the middle of the night for the cameras. We didn't play the theatre with people's lives. We didn't hide. We followed transparent procedures. The Prime Minister was present at all and was not missing. Because we've seen other models before. So our accountability was daily. We did not set up communal fissures at the time of the crisis. We worked hard. We didn't work the world. In thirty days, then, we have taken steps for years. A national health system has evolved dynamically and positively. That is what many representatives are saying - and to their credit - from the Qualified Opposition. They say positive steps have been taken on the health side. And we appreciate that. We saved lives. There were the workers, the nurses, the doctors, the staff. Of course, there was also a government policy that saved lives. We'd lighten the burdens on millions of citizens. We hired a nursing staff, more than four thousand people. We helped eight hundred thousands of businesses and one million eight hundred thousand workers. There was a protection shield of 24 billion euros, equal to about 13% of the National Gross Product, with direct and indirect measures, with hot money and also reliefs. Of five hundred sixty-five intensive treatment units, we exceeded a thousand. It's a thousand four today. We boosted primary care. We have succeeded in joining - to go to finance - in quantitative relaxation. We have achieved the removal of 3.5% of the primary surpluses. The European Central Bank has pledged Greek bonds. We starred at international fermentation to find a solution. We have been a pillar, one of the main countries for the debate on the Eurobond. We made suspensions of payments, rent discounts. We recommended a new morality. When some were calling worthy Greeks, such as Mr Chiodra - minority groups, and I do not want to blame the whole opposition for that - we worked for the common good. When grumpy and petty people shouted, we took care of the long -term unemployed. We did it. You got it. Some people said it wasn't gonna happen. As was done to help all professional groups. When others as political vortures wanted dead, again minority, but they must also be mentioned in history, we were building bridges. We'll agree that to a certain extent, opposition has helped. But the intentions never let her overcome her evil self. We do not claim infallible. There's been a titanic effort. Only those who don't try and make mistakes. But, lastly - and I am talking about the latest developments - a distorting picture of the voucher issue from those who - I repeat, from the outset - have thrown millions of euros into teletraining is very much going. Yesterday the Minister for Labour, Mr. Brutsi, gave some evidence. We're waiting for answers. On 10 April 2019, we had 30.9m euros to strengthen workers' skills. On 10 June 2019, we had 48.9m euros. I repeat the date: On 10 June, a few days, i.e., before the national elections, we had 48.9 million euros. They were the same KECs. So because things are easy to hear, evidence should be given here. We're waiting for evidence. As we expect evidence to be seen from the resignation - if I remember correctly - of the then Secretary-General of Halkidiki and the complaints about Ms Antonopoulou. We expect to see what has been done with the management of all this money that exceeds EUR 200 million. Are the CECs unknown to you? Didn't you use them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u4	What were those ladies?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u5	The Secretary-General of the Ministry of Labour Mr Halkidiki had resigned, making complaints about Ms Antonopoulou, the State Secretary. We're waiting for Mrs. Ahchioglu to come and talk. Of course, we expect you to indicate which provision, which article of the law was violated by the Minister of Labour and by the Government. Where? How? When? Because when some talk about scandals, they should also take the weight of what they say. There is in Matthew the Gospel the phrase spoken by Jesus Christ about the Pharisees: "Guide blind, the contuitors, and the camel oppressors." It is a phrase for those who hypocritically pay attention and conscientiousness to the young and the few, and do not care for the great. It's wrong. Be careful, mistakes are made in a state built from the outset to help the citizens and not to be hit by the coronary. But talking about corruption and complications is different when SYRIZA was given so much money. And we're waiting for an explanation. We expect Mrs Ahtsoglou to see who is the sinner who took the stone first and hit it. We're waiting to see her. The political philosophicalism of our time, then, is not to look at the great, that our country has been sanitaryly faced with concrete measures. SYRIZA, with a new phantomism, is what Jesus says to the Gospel, “the blind driver.” He refuses, he whispers, he keeps punishing, he keeps having something bad to say about a national effort. It's not a New Democracy effort, it's a national effort. It's all the fault. Well, that suits him. And it fits the "yes, me secretaries and philosophers"! Because when some were giving over 200 million and in an election way, they are not right at the moment to swing the finger for those who are trying to build something new in thirty days. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will give me two minutes, Mr President, and I will finish. We are therefore moving on to regulations that will benefit many with a view to transparency again. All in the light! Our Parliament has remained open for this very thing. We help students pay their rents minus 40%. We are granting tax rebates to taxpayers for March and April. I was impressed by the position taken by the rapporteur, Mr Zachariadis, by SYRIZA, that this will help the very large businesses. It is good to help the very large companies, because they also employ thousands of workers. But it helps all the space, all the business. Time-limits shall be suspended for seventy-five days. It is granted - and I think we agree - state aid in the form of a repayable advance. The staff of the hospitals shall be assisted. We all have something to talk about with the white and green blouses. There shall be a suspension for three months of the payment of instalments under arrangements under Law 4469/2019, Law 4605 and Law 3869. Promoting arrangements for extension or suspension of time limits in the Code on Tax Procedure, extensions of time-limits for the publication of annual financial statements, because the stock exchange is something we need to monitor. It is a market that is important with its indicators. There are supermarket interventions, price checks, when some people said there is immunity. Our market has worked. So we have talked about the reductions in self-employed people, about the Easter gift which we have guaranteed, and we say clearly: 'It will not be lost even 1 euro'. This populism must end. Easter's gift is an extraordinary treaty and will be paid in full. There are work interventions, but I do not want to get far because time is pushing us. Control committees are being set up at the same time, so transparency and transparency, because this is the major for us, for donations to the coronary. On a proper basis, the recruitment of medical staff, while the operation of the National Center for Blood. Exceptional conditions also require emergency policy solutions to the medicine. I will also stand against the state's digital transformation. It's a big vendal which spreads out. In this effort, the local government agencies who have actively entered. There are reservations in this direction too. A special agency for the management and implementation of funds is also set up there, because everything must be transparent. The Greek seafarer from the Ministry of Shipping is assisted. There's been help on the routes. It is a holistic approach. We are therefore moving forward on a step-by-step. I would therefore like to say that in any case we have had great successes. And finally, we could say a lot. There's a lot of care all the time. We're right here for this thing. The government, but also the Greek citizen, is with a high head. We have to overcome an unprecedented grievance, and it is a real pity that the positive climate of the first few days, consensual policy on the side of the counterpopulation, over the last ten to fifteen days, is not going on. Reflect, change the cruising line. The Greek has many problems. We did not hide the problems that are coming to the economy, but this is where we want a real consensus and not a consensus. Don't evolve on the blind who are refining the deaf. That's what we leave them in their misery. And when the time comes for judgment of what we were talking about and what happened, here we will be. Greece is gradually coming out in the open. Not hastyly, not with a logic of 'take, world' as the financial staff of SYRIZA want. We go out on a method. Greece will come out of this crisis with a strong and high head. Not like a country which is problematic, but as an example. Not ashamed of charlatans who didn't respect the national effort. Greece of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy succeeded and will succeed. The grumpy ones and the little ones will be left behind in their misery. That's what some people have known to do for years. That's what will force them to do, to get rid of them. An optimistic Greece comes, be it some people want it or some people don't want it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u6	I will give the floor to the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Konstantinos Zachariadis. I see, Mr. Marcopoulou, you've taken 12 and a half minutes. The same year everyone will get. At least we must stand at this time of about twelve minutes. Here, you have the floor, Mr Zachariadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u7	Good morning and many years to everyone and everyone. Mr. Markopoulos, are you the same Mr. Markopoulos, where were you the other day in the committee we discussed the legislative act? Because the day before yesterday you were fanatical about the voucher story, how good that policy is, and today you come and tell us here that you were wrong. And instead of stopping at it, you're asking us for the change. If you stopped there, you'd lower your eyes, you'd ask for apologies, maybe we'd have a different attitude. So we caught you with the voucher on your back! The whole scientific world of the country has denounced you. You've been ruling the country for ten months and now you're discovering SYRIZA scandal! Ten months of this huge SYRIZA scandal, why didn't you show it? Also, why are you lying to the Greek people? Is the thief yelling to be afraid of the housekeeper? Was there the possibility before we enter the procedure that the European Commission allows us to take the money directly from the ESRB, to give this money before the elections? Does a country like Greece need to have training programmes or does it not need to? Is it training what you have made or is it not training and is it a fairy tale? Has three and a half thousand e-mails gone to top government minister saying how well these programs are or haven't they gone? Does he have five errors within thousands of pages or does he have thousands of mistakes within thousands of pages of this program? These, Mr Marcopoulou, must be answered and, above all, do not cause! You made a mistake. Pick it up. Give the answers to all the issues. Who is involved in these stories? How are they involved? And from now on there is greater transparency, because the Greek people have paid for these things very much. You can't put on the balance what happened before the elections, except for a pandemic, what's happening now. And if there's any spot, don't bring it to us as a communication answer to play different communication centers. Bring evidence over here, what's there, where there is, let's see it. Clean sky lightnings aren't afraid. You have changed seventeen colours and seventeen political positions since Parliament's previous meeting to this day. It has been over a month since our life changed and was violently overthrown in the new conditions in which we live. The effects of this new reality on personal, social, economic and professional life appear to be more clear every day. Most of the international community has decided, and rightly so, as an absolute priority to protect human life for a month and more we are staying at home to be healthy and because we are always in solidarity with society as a whole. For us, after all, societies were never herds and people were never numbers. We help with all the means available to the health system. We have always supported it, and we support it today. While others in the past went through it and did not see the need for his existence and support. At the same time, we see and think of all the citizens who, together with us, with the public health system, keep the country upright and safe. Our minds are next to the low-wages, who work in the supply chain, infrastructure, networks, guards, police officers, firefighters, delivers. Without these people, our life would be inviolable. The next day we will not forget them and fight for rights and their security. We are in solidarity with those who work today from distance, who face fatigue, insecurity and stress every day. We hope that what we live is something temporary. We are not afraid of developments, but we will not allow this crisis to become a crisis of democracy, rights, insecurity and self-government. This new life that we live in needs more communication, needs total solidarity and support, needs small daily joys and above all not to leave anyone alone in this trial. So we will be able to get out as unscathed physically and mentally as possible of this unprecedented circumcision. Obviously we are living an unprecedented crisis that we do not know the point of exit and its depth, but the designs of a good, bad or intermediate scenario must exist. The Bank of Greece predicts a downturn of 4% to 8%, the Treasury of Finance, Mr. Besiropoulos, if I am not mistaken, 5% to 10%, the IMF 10%, the State Budget Office in Parliament of 5.3% to 10.2%. These performances seem to be the worst performance in the European Union. The country is being subjected to a huge test not only because of the objectively difficult circumstances, but also because of the mistakes and wrong manipulations of the New Democracy. What did Mrs. Lagard say yesterday? He said: 'too little too late'. That's what you do here in Greece. You're stalled while we have possibilities. The recession will deepen, inequalities will increase, poverty will increase, destruction will increase. We need to penetrate the recession with strict costing. The more money we spend at first, the less recession and destruction will be. The longer we delay and act in fragmentation, the greater the state of the destruction of the Greek economy. And here I want us to be informed. The government will be judged by the depth of the recession, of the increase in poverty, of the increase in inequalities. The social partners, workers and the market are concerned. The government's actions so far show that it has not understood the size of the crisis and if it has understood it, it has no comprehensive proposal for the next day. See and compare the support packages for other European Union economies in Member States with a similar population and a similar market size with us and you will understand that management on the New Democracy side is absolutely problematic. We must pursue brave and decisive economic, business, workers and those in a difficult financial situation. Inevitably - and I said this yesterday to the committee, we repeat it today - will clash the progressive with the conservative response and we as SYRIZA - have been a Progressive Alliance, we are and will be the voice of our poor and weak fellowmen and we will support the demands of the oppressed and deceived middle class. What weapons do we have to deal with this crisis? We have the budgetary pillow left by the previous government for urgent time - certainly no one had in mind that such a great disaster could happen - and European policies too. Let's start with the first one. Imagine the pandemic hadn't hit 2020, but had it hit in 2015 or 2012. Think of what stock, what credibility and what infrastructure - not only economic but also health - the country had at that time. Don't forget. In the budget a few months ago, the Deputy Minister of Finance in the Parliament called the "cushion" as the largest gave in the history of economic science. So the question is where we are now, what you have done with this useless and unnecessary pillow, in your opinion. Mr Mitsotakis has an obligation to come here and make it clear and say what has been spent on these 37 billion and where he has been spent, because so far the political interventions which have been made have not justified that part of this budget pillow has been wasted. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, a little time and I'm going to need it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u8	Like we said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u9	Sure. We should also go to European tools. I would like to ask Parliament a question so that you can put it in your political family, because I really have no idea what strategy the People's Party has in Europe. The left-wing strategy I understand, the Occupied Territories, the Social Democrats, the progressive political family. Does the People's Party in Europe support Eurobonds or does not support Eurobonds? The People's Party in Athens supports Eurobonds and the People's Party in Berlin does not support Eurobonds? How many versions, how many versions and how many versions are there on the conservative side of Europe and how each in this Chamber, but also in all the parliaments of Europe, and in the European Parliament and in the institutions, does he really think what he really thinks? And here comes a question for our friends, the Germans, the Danes, the Finnish, the Austrians, the Swedish. What is the job scenario with which they would propose debt-sharing - I say a hypothetical scenario - that is, Eurobonds? If the answer is 'in no scenario and never', then we who are Europeans and we love Europe very much have a very serious problem, because it turns out that Germany and some satellites treat their partners as a vital place for economic expansion and for overcrowding. This is not the European Union. This can't have much future. This is a pretext for solidarity, cooperation and burden-sharing. This is a heterogeneous German alliance. This isn't the common house, it's a big yard. We must now go to the health sector, because Mr Marcopouloule, you, when you were oppositioning the dead in the government at the time, and I see that now that the hardships are coming to the economy, again with good performance, are trying to bring these issues into the controversy. We won't do you the favor. In the health field instead of criticising and extracting political gains on pain and death, we have chosen the opposition of proposals and addressing the threat, the placement of political consensus and political understanding. However, the smoother development of the pandemic in Greece does not justify mercilessness. It is a real challenge and it is an insult to the Greek people to the Prime Minister's statement that in just five weeks it has become what has not been done for decades in the health system. The truth is, therefore, that under pressure from the health crisis and not from political government planning for the development of the ESS some contractors were recruited and the available beds for intensive treatment were increased. It is important, however, that this crisis has found the ESY standing, accessible to everyone, without discrimination, with more than a hundred intensive beds in relation to what we had in 2015 - and we were in memorandum years - and this is the work of the previous government. Fortunately, we're in a phase of controlled coronary dispersion. We are with the other countries with the low speed of spreading the virus and we have all fought for it together. It is unprecedented in the country's political history and, of course, the moments we are experiencing and the debate on the gradual and controlled lifting of restrictive measures has begun and should be done with full scientific documentation. However, there are a number of issues which we need to pay particular attention to, for example, vulnerable populations. In the refugee - migration must become absolute and scanning control over all structures, possibly sick persons and cases outside structures must be transported to appropriate places to accommodate them. A political observation is also coming here. How much better would it be if you had listened to us in October, November, December, January, January, February, and proceeded with the reasoned and gradual decongestion of structures? How much better would it be if you served your November 2019 plan, which spoke of a uniform distribution of refugees throughout the country, but did the blue mayors and blue regionals react?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u10	Finish this, Mr. Marcopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u11	I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u12	Not in one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u13	In a minute. For SYRIZA needs, which have arisen from pandemic, are a great opportunity for a strong and public health system. In fact, what we are living with the health system is a huge ideological Waterlo for New Democracy's ideas and policies in the field of health. Mr. Mitsotakis in his last lecture praised the public health system. If that is true, it can also be a positive development. But are they honest? Has the New Democracy changed strategic position on health issues? Has he revised the central selection of the Memorandum Governments? Does he review what he was saying when our government hired ten and a half thousand doctors and talked about obsolete and wasted choices? Does the Government of New Democracy regret the frozen recruitment of four thousand medical staff to the public health system? The country is going through difficulties these days and we must all be honest on these issues. Last issue and I am in ten seconds, Mr President. It's over, April. You have not yet settled the issue of first residence. I do not think how it will be sunrise on 1 May and we will be without a protection framework. Don't you dare leave the country, as you left it by leaving January 2015, without any protection framework. Last week we had an amendment. You turned it down. You've done a bad job. Identify your mistake too and let us vote on it in Parliament together.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u14	Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u15	I'm closing up, saying that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u16	Hey, no more!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u17	I'm closing in thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u18	No, it's all 30 and ten. Please complete!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, I shall conclude. The answer, if the first home is not protected, will not be what you think or what you are afraid of. The answer of society and ours in society will be the one that has to be - and anyone who understands, understands. Thank you, Mr President, very much for the time being.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u20	I'd like to invite the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Michael Katrin.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the danger after entering the krone era, in addition to health or economic challenges, is to experience a change of democratic institutions, a restriction of freedoms and rights and a reversal of values that are fundamental to advanced open societies. In our country we are experiencing a model of reverse democracy, where executive power is turned into legislation and decides by legislative acts, which the House is then called upon to ratify, such as the one we are debating today. And this extraordinary situation is to a certain extent justified, but in some cases it goes beyond the limits of fairness and it reaches the limits of misuse and simplicity of procedures, as the case of well-known training seminars has shown in order to give the scientists 600 euros, which eventually resulted in an unprecedented fiasco. Because neither the scientists took the first instalment of EUR 300, as promised, the Great Week nor, of course, these were educational seminars. And it is regrettable that the government should be ridiculed by those who failed in the field of excellence. Even more regrettable, however, is not to manifest the elementary equilibrium by submitting resignations from the relevant ministers. And all this is happening at a time when the government is trying to monopolize communication in every fair and unfair way and to self-evidently take advantage of the consent given to it by both the Greek people and the opposition parties, in order to eliminate any criticism or opposition voice. We as a Change Movement have every legitimacy, morality and politics, to make these points, since, throughout this period, we have exercised a responsible opposition with proposals and have supported, despite our strong reservations, the most legislative initiatives to tackle the crisis and we have proposed that any injustices be restored and that most professional classes and citizens affected by the crisis should be supported, always within the limits of the country's budgetary responsibilities. Because we, ladies and gentlemen, have not turned this crisis into an opportunity, as some other political forces have done in the past, to step on the body of the country and rise to power. However, toward us what do we have? We have a government which, while taking timely measures in the health field by listening to experts - and it was right to do - did not seem to have the same reflexes in terms of support measures and the economy and also of the citizens and its decisions had characteristics of customer policy, social analgesia, injustice and prejudice and ideology. Because it is a customer policy that the government chooses who will support and who will not, leaving outside professional charges that should have been placed first in order to change immediately after its decision, leaving failures again. It is social analgesia when it offers only sixty thousand of the four hundred thousand long -term unemployed, or when with bureaucratic pretexts several hourly, low-paid and underpaid hours are left uncovered. It is injustice and prejudice to leave out of support measures for farmers and farmers undermining the country's nutritional adequacy. And, of course, it is a neoliberal ideal that anyone who cannot swim in the crisis should drown. And with this logic and strict adoption of the bank orders, the government leaves out of the support opportunities for businesses that managed to stay open even with the injuries of the previous ten-year crisis, even with the overtaxation of the previous SYRIZA government, on their backs, with unserved loans. And the fact that, as a Change Movement, we think it is right today to vote on government measures that are a solution to problems that offer temporary relief to citizens and businesses affected by the crisis does not mean that we consent to these reasonable, choices, omissions and unjustified exceptions. And that's clear. Nor does it mean that we agree with the mixture of the policy followed, since there is a visible risk that the government's decisions will create its new privileged and unprivileged tomorrow, lead to thousands of businesses being shut down and, of course, lead to new armies of the unemployed. That is why we are not making a social protest. We present processed proposals with features and rationality and justice. We have therefore tabled three amendments in this draft law aimed at keeping the economy alive but also upright in society and calling on the government to accept them. The first amendment we are tabling provides for the reduction of the advance tax for 2020 to 50% for all businesses and for the full exemption for the firms affected. It is a measure that you know, Minister, that it has no financial impact. At the same time as seeking ways of strengthening business liquidity, the state insists on paying 100% tax for 2020 on the basis of revenues from 2019. And while the government, as it says in Article 3, wants to strengthen the liquidity of companies by making a repayable advance - which is essentially a low-priced loan - we see that at the same time it does not make any move to reduce the advance payment of the tax. Of course, the advance is a measure that has not been accepted with special interest, if we judge...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u22	This also applies to freelance professionals, not only to businesses.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u23	Please don't interrupt him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u24	The point is correct. It's for both professionals and self-employed people. However, we see that this measure - I repeat - has not been accepted with particular interest by businesses, if we consider that out of the seven hundred thousands affected and about nine hundred thousand who had the right to benefit from this measure, only a hundred thousand have applied. And business reservation is justified even in this low-priced loan. Because the bad experience of previous years with banks, which had been lending up to and including 4,7% at the time of the negative interest rates in the Eurozone, prevents companies from being given a new loan, effectively leading them to the option to suspend operation. And, of course, loans guaranteed by the Greek State will be granted by the banks with strict banking criteria, which excludes access to such loans by thousands of companies, since 50% of the business loans are non-serving, with 40% of the requirements complaining of delays of only three to six months. All this despite Mrs Lagard's strict warning that the European Central Bank will not accept tight conditions of financing from the banks, since it lends itself at a negative interest rate of 0.75% and the guarantees of the states reduce the bank's credit risk. The second amendment we are tabling concerns the protection of first residence. It provides for the reintroduction of the provisions of the Law on highly indebted households on the basis of current data, the safeguarding of part of the agricultural property from divestment, so that farmers and farmers can ensure the living and extending of the circle of the beneficiaries of Law 4605/2019 with the obligation of banks to respond within one month to the requests that meet all selection criteria. With regard to the proposal put forward by the Change Movement two months ago to set up a cross-party committee from parties and bodies - in fact, the day before yesterday and an interesting proposal from an institution, the Association for the Law of Consumers - which should have drawn up a new bankruptcy framework and the arrangements for the protection of first residence, all parties responded positively except for the New Democracy. At the same time, the government is preparing a new bankruptcy code that turns the owners into tenants, effectively abolishing the concept of first home protection. Six days before the end of the current protection and you have not yet made arrangements to extend it. On the contrary, it is only accidental that on 27 April they open the peace courtrooms and mortgages, with banks having thousands of payment orders ready and following pre-notifications, forced execution measures, seizures and auctions. And because it sounds like you are preparing for a short-term extension of SYRIZA's failed law, Law No.4605, and the platform in which only 1% of applications were accepted, and 19 million euros were arranged from EUR 90 billion of non-performing loans, I think that this is not the solution. And you know that very well, Minister, that is why you were sending a letter to both banks and claims management companies to tell you why no arrangements are being made. But really, did they ever answer you why they don't make arrangements? It's still proving. The third amendment we are tabling relates to the practical recognition of the offer of all those who are fighting the lead in the face of the pandemic. And the practical recognition, ladies and gentlemen, will not appear in the applause, as the song says, but by subjecting to the heavy and unhealthy professions of the ESS, the EKA, the prosperous structures, the social structures of the self-government, the "Help at Home", the day-care centres, the workers in the cleanliness of the municipalities. And, of course, it will prove by granting a monthly emergency allowance to people who are fighting the front line, all those who I have mentioned and the uniforms for as long as the pandemic lasts. Of course, we agree with the provisions of Article 4 on the payroll of workers in health structures and civil protection with the payment of half a wage. We are also in agreement with Article 5 of this bill, which incorporates all those who serve the regulations on the basis of the law on overdue households, which we have already asked for as from 26 March, as we agree with the amendment on the 40% reduction of rents for student housing, which we have also asked on 1 April. It is a good thing that Article 34 extends the purpose and functioning of the National Center of Blood and that the position of the Change Movement for increasing the tests, especially in health, police, ports, hospitals and disabled people is justified. And, of course, we agree with the flexible recruitment procedures in the National Health System, but provision should also be made for immediate cover for vacant posts, but, Minister, and control over the private health sector, for compliance with the krone prevention and management protocols. And I say it on the basis of yesterday's events. We agree with the need to support the media for the proper and reliable information of citizens, but this should be done on specific criteria, also on regional channels and stations, and, of course, on ensuring pluralism of opinions by all political parties. Ladies and gentlemen, with the proposals we are tabling and being adopted, and the improvements we have proposed in committee and in plenary today, we have a threefold objective: the measures to deal with all citizens so that they do not really feel alone in the crisis, the measures to be divided into social justice and, of course, the measures to be provided on the basis of the country's possibilities. We also expect these possibilities to be strengthened if the European Union decides to take decisions in response to the circumstances. We have not yet seen this but yesterday's strict recommendations from the European Central Bank. What is interesting, of course, is that the government's original intention of issuing Eurobonds was abandoned early and developed in support of the Recovery Fund, asking for direct aid. I do not know if, behind these retractions, you are preparing the ground for recourse to the European Support Facility and possibly a new memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u25	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u26	I shall conclude, Mr President. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the pages in. 47-73]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are not one of those who believe that the crises are being dealt with effectively in a more authoritarian way of governance. On the contrary, we believe that democratic control, more transparency, greater collectiveness, greater solidarity and above all, we need a national plan to make use of the opportunities that this crisis is hiding as a country. In view of the interests of the country and of the citizens, we will insist on these principles. And on this road we intend to keep going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u27	The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakas, for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. All these days, the government has tried to hide behind the deposition of individual responsibility the major government deficits, as well as the fact that the major victims of the pandemic remain the workers. Despite efforts to show that we are all supposed to share the burdens of the crisis in a fair manner - as long as the burdens and previous years of the crisis have been shared - and that in two months, what for years has not been done to support public health has been done, the reality is merciless and shows a completely different picture. Because public health support is only done with an adequate and armored system, with all the necessary means and personnel - not permanently and with brigades - that can manage this emergency situation as well and not, of course, at the expense of the years or other emergency patients who are waiting patiently at home today to be hospitalized. Even more remains and insecure the insecurity, the complete dismantling of labour relations and unemployment, which show who you are writing the account and this crisis. This approach has been taken by all the government's so far. The share of the lion of aid is given to large capitalist enterprises, both with warm money and facilities and with measures that have been looked at in the next day. In addition to the hundred thousand redundancies of this time that you accepted as a side-effect, the thousands of seasonal workers who remain uncertain, without substantial support, the pandemic has developed first-class opportunity to legitimise the firm demands of the employer for further elasticisation of labour relations, rotating working hours, elastic working hours and teleworking. And all this was baptized by the Prime Minister's mouth as a trigger of lasting reforms, confirming the concerns of workers that once again you do not intend to withdraw these extraordinary measures, always in the name of the survival of businesses. There is, of course, no reason for the survival of the workers. In this so-called fair distribution of burdens you have included the unacceptable postponement of the time of payment of the workers' Easter gift for the summer. With the workers' entrepreneurs, you're doing kimbies to the bosses. So it is so much the achievements of the Minister of Labour that it did not surprise us so much the new episode with the vouchers for laughing and crying for the scientists. After all, you are not the first to take advantage of the indifference of the workers to share warm money among the private-private businessmen, nor is it new that commercialisation of education gives rise to multiple discounts in the name of profit. However, what finally impresses is the government's courage to continue striving towards self-employed scientists, who even now do not give them the whole emergency aid, but you say 'take the 600 euros', as if you do them a favor. The small and medium-sized farmers and the small fishermen, who have left them completely unprotected, as well as many other sectors which seem to be not part of them for which the restrictions on their activity are imposed, are affected by a generalized resurgence. From this point of view, we believe that the horizontal measures you are announcing on the basis of the branches of activity do not give substantial support to those who really need it. For example, a number of measures to suspend financial obligations for a quarter for small professionals, who are barely spending the month, will allow them to pay them in the coming months along with the new current payments to taxi, insurance funds and banks? Also, the provision for a 25% discount on tax debts, which only concerns those who have the option to pay them in the short term, effectively excludes all those who were suddenly found without income. Such measures should be initiated first by micro-enterprises and self-employed people with a priority for those with an income of less than EUR 12 000 and, of course, combined with measures designed to create certain conditions of survival for the next period. Such measures are, for example, to exempt from the payment of contributions for their individual insurance for the period from February to May and not just to suspend them for the next period, without loss of pension rights, the reintroduction of the tax rate to EUR 12,000 with an increase of EUR 3,000 for each child, the non-payment of the trade fee and HNPH at least for the years 2019 and 2020 with a view to their definitive abolition. To remind you that this has been one of the extraordinary measures that have been left forever. At least by the end of the year all auctions and confiscations and all measures of forced collection should be suspended to the public, the banks and the CECE, and the confiscations and all measures of forced collection, the interruption of electricity and water. While you have left completely unprotected the first popular residence, you are rushing to open the courts to start the preambles. Mercy, really! The Government shows great reluctance to implement these protection measures, which the JRC has repeatedly proposed. Of course, your reluctance was not the same with regard to the provocative discharge of the canals from their already reduced annual offer, and even after the gift of 11 million euros you gave them by way of a previous act of legislation, to remind us very thoroughly of our individual responsibility. However, you also make such gifts to the shipowners, which you first supported with 15 million warm money, apart from 130 million of the fixed subsidy, 150 million of the equivalent of the transport and other fixed facilities, while the gifts will be continued at will with the direct awards of services provided by law. Even in their port charges you have predicted a discount, as if they were paying a lot so far. And despite so much money they put into the pocket, this did not even get to take the elementary protection measures for the health of workers and passengers, as was seen by the repeated complaints made by seafarers, most characteristic of the case of the ship "VENIZELOS". On the contrary, the measures you are proposing for the protection of seafarers do not cover a large proportion of seafarers at a time when redundancies and insecurity arise due to the prolongation of reduced organic compositions, when it is already known that thousands of unemployed seafarers are not even recorded by the euphemism of the "Seasonal Work Office" and when from the recorded, you only give 20% of the unemployment benefit. How many, then, will this two-month extension help? I also mentioned in the committee debate a series of seafarers from the seafarers, the masters and engineers of the AEN and KESEN schools, the wage earners and temporary teachers of these schools and others who remain unemployed because of the circumstances and who are excluded from the exceptional aid provided for by the Act of Legislation. Likewise, with regard to the arrangements for the ITAs, I would say that it is really a burden, at a time when there are objectively increased needs to be met, to baptise as aid the possibility of obtaining in advance the amount that is entitled to be paid from the central resources, which should be reimbursed in eighteen instalments, i.e. deducted from the next state aid that has been collapsed over the past decade and which has been considerably reduced by the need. It is equally unacceptable that the meeting of local and regional councils can be held by involving only half of their members. The negative experience that already exists in a number of municipalities, which use this way of making decisions with fast track procedures on a number of serious issues, such as the transfer of hayalou and beaches to entrepreneurs, confirms the concern expressed. The limit of participation must be returned to two-thirds of the members and the rotating meeting should be provided for only on urgent matters relating to the emergency situation. I would like to say a few words about some of the amendments, because I do not have time to deal with all the issues. In relation to the amendments to extend the special-purpose licence to parents with disabilities, we consider that to be self-evident. It should have been planned from the outset. It is something that we have asked for, and in particular with a question from 2 April. As far as the amendment to the extension of the rental discount by 40% for students is concerned, it was a requirement for students to support them. And it makes sense to seek support in terms of the payment of student rents. However, the prediction of a 40% discount, and indeed only in the case of families belonging to the affected CARs announced by the Government, is that they are incomplete and beneath the real needs. The majority of students with a different place of origin and study are forced to pay rent which was unbearable before the pandemic. You cannot expect the people's families and their children's rents to be covered by the EUR 800 if they take it from the special aid, which may be more than one. We are asking for the families of students to be given a housing allowance of EUR 800 for each student accommodation covering the months of March and April, as well as for the entire period when the universities will remain closed and the students have returned to their homes. We also call for tuition fees and fees to be deleted in postgraduate and other programmes for the period during which the institutions will cease to operate, and for all necessary measures to be taken to secure the free and secure residence of students in the homes. I have finally left the measures relating to strengthening public health structures, because that is where the fragmentation with which the government is confronting the people's unrealistic need for the protection of their health and life is really evident. The time gained by the people's consistency in the restrictions, self-sacrificing and titanic efforts made by all health workers will prove to be a gift free if you stay on the battalions of the four-month contracts of secondary doctors and those with the dropper. Nor, of course, with regulations such as the ones you brought us, for the possibility of converting different hospital beds to ICU for as long as the pandemic lasts and, if necessary, the real needs can be met. The daily waiting lists of thirty to fifty patients for a bed in an ITH long before the pandemic are images of normality and not images of extraordinary conditions. These are the ones that impose the brave reinforcement of the public health system, the one that all of you have in turn put into quarantine in previous years. We are talking about the aid that all the health workers who are unarmed in the front line are asking for, so that they can cover all the care needs of the patients and not just those who raise the health system. Finally, I would like to say a word about the amendment by the Ministry of Sport. We don't disagree, especially with the first article. However, with regard to the second article, on the question of the completion of the championship, because it relates in particular to the issue of aggregation and measures to prevent public health, we do not consider that the responsibility for selecting to be entrusted to the NRAs who are also under various pressures for the completion of the championship. It is an issue that must be decided by the Ministry, of course, on the basis of the advice of scientists, to ensure that there are no problems in public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, too. Before calling on the Step - after the Step - the next special speaker, Mr. Vassiliardo, from the Greek Solution, I would like to make a statement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos and the Members of his party have tabled a proposal for a committee of inquiry into the reasons, circumstances and procedures under which the Prespecies Agreement has been signed and ratified, in accordance with Articles 68(2) of the Constitution and 144 next of the Rules of Procedure of the House. This proposal will be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting, printed and distributed to the Members of Parliament, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. The above proposal is recorded in the Minutes and read as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u30	Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President, for your announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all we want to wish everyone, on behalf of the Greek Solution, for years, much for Easter, with health and happiness. However, it can only be proud of Greece on the night of the Resurrection, which, after ten years of deep recession and economic impoverishment, continues to stand on its feet, maintain its social cohesion, customs, religion and faith in the family, strongly defending the attacks that it accepts from all sides. This is the reason why the Greeks will always achieve miracles, no matter how obstacles they are placed in their way, since their cultural foundations are solid, having been engulfed in their long history, which is in no position to be sawn. It was the first time, of course, that we did not celebrate and visited our own, remaining closed in our homes, respecting measures to protect public health as perhaps no other people on the planet. Unfortunately, however, the government did not respect neither our health nor the largest source of our income, tourism, which directly and indirectly produces 21% of GDP or almost 40 billion euros, together with the shipping that brings us EUR 17.3 billion, the two main pillars of our economy. He did not respect them, since he has carried us into our homes, illegal immigrants in Kranidi, without even taking the necessary measures, so that there are massive cases that, on the one hand, jeopardise the health of the Greeks in the region, on the other hand, and our tourism, since the news will not, of course, be hidden in the international media. So we risk the competitive advantages we have over Italy, Spain and Turkey, because in these countries there are much more cases and deaths, despite the fact that we citizens have done and do our best to safeguard them. And it was a great opportunity for Greece not to sink into recession, since the good news is that shipping has overcome the problem. It is a recession that must not happen because it will be accompanied by memos that we know very well what they mean, where they lead and who pays them. The ordinary citizens pay them - the people, that is - and not the ministers who did not take the measures they had to take, as no politician has yet paid for the damage they caused in our country. No one has paid anything until today! On the other hand, we want to emphasise once again the need to table a new special budget, because the former does not apply at all to its figures or to the cases that the Ministry of Finance has taken into account, such as growth rates, international conditions and everything else. Everything has changed. So we urgently need a new budget. We need to know where we are going, and we need to avoid fait accompli, while the measures taken every day have now lost the account. Suffice it to note that about fifteen days ago the Minister of Finance announced financial measures amounting to EUR 6.8 billion or 3.5% of GDP and, among other things, the increase in reserves by EUR 5 billion, without answering where they will come from or how they will be financed, when the President of Greek Solution asked him here. A few days later, the Prime Minister announced - obviously pluralising - measures of EUR 14 billion or EUR 7.5% of GDP, without mentioning where they will be found and how they will be made available. This is not how a state is ruling. I stress this again: so the state is not governed. Secondly, we want to mention the fact that Greece should not be immersed again in the recession that would probably have forced it to sign a next memorandum, an official memorandum. If, therefore, the government planned to proclaim a large recession of 5% to 10%, to argue later on that it managed to do so with a smaller one, when it knows that from the fourth quarter of 2009 the rate of growth to 1%, from 2.3% in the previous quarter, while the cash deficit tripled in the first quarter of 2020 according to the Bank of Greece, it is better to forget it, since what should be of interest and interest to all of us is Greece and not the excuses for its failure. The third is the need to change the economic model, as we have said too many times, because the country should not depend so much on tourism, let alone when tourism covers over 80% of its needs with imported products, precisely because we have abandoned the primary sector, the processing and the industry that we are obliged to develop again. If we do not, then we will continue to be non-competitive internationally and try to survive by reducing wage costs, in other words, miserable, with a failed policy that we have implemented in recent years at the request of the troika with internal devaluation, as it was known, without any substantial results. To sum up, three things are needed. Firstly, a new extraordinary budget is required, secondly, to change the economic model and, thirdly, to avoid the recession. These three actions must not be delayed at all and there is no mistake, because otherwise Greece - I am sorry to say it - will be destroyed in full. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As far as today's legislative act is concerned, I will only refer to certain articles, for which we are obliged to vote against. I'm starting at the worst, from the last, from Article 68. The scandalous premium for large media, channel owners who will not pay the 2020 instalment for obtaining the national licence will not, that is, pay EUR 3,5 million for each of the SCA, MEGA, ANTENNA, OPEN, STAR and ALPHA television stations. Overall, they will not pay EUR 21 million plus EUR 50,000 that they had to pay to the National Broadcasting Council. The most funny of all! 50,000 euros! Nearly all these owners are shipowners who are now - and very well they do - storing oil in their tankers. So they certainly don't need that, and we assume they didn't ask for it at all. This article is the least scandalous at a time when Greece needs every euro to achieve it, faced with the dozens of problems that its governments have accumulated over the last ten years, leaving them unsolved. With regard to the rest, Article 3 has said that attention should be paid to the primary sector, which is allowed to support it, in accordance with Article 22e of the recent Community directive since 19 March 2020. We'll testify to her in the Minutes. We, as a Greek Solution, have proposed EUR 1 billion for subsidies, such as investments in greenhouses or beetles for seeds, etc., as well as a reduction in VAT on basic foods in half. This will also reduce the price increases in food already found, especially if other countries ban exports. If farmers do not rely on the quantities they produced previously, Greece will be hungry in the autumn - I say it literally - while prices will rise in the coming months because of reduced demand due to the decline in tourism. We stress this again: Greece will be hungry if the appropriate measures are not taken. We have said from the outset that it is incomprehensible to give almost EUR 200 million to vouchers, even if it was not a beastly scandal as it proved, while in the primary sector it is only EUR 150 million. Article 5 provides that the suspension of the time limits for the payment of instalments and the extension of the protection of the first place of residence is positive. The problem, however, needs to be solved radically, as we have often proposed, according to the United States model of 1933. The cost for the state will be minimal and almost all Greeks will save their first residence. They'll save her. It won't be postponed, that is, just her loss. In Article 7, we believe that the collectors should stop their activities for a reasonable period of time. Article 40 concerns contracts with which we certainly do not agree. In addition, we do not know what specific conditions will exist. For example, will the electronic surveillance of victims be followed by a bracelet, a chip, like in Hong Kong? Is that possible? At this point we would like to stress that we are generally against such actions. We are also against the mandatoryity of vaccines, as we have mentioned dozens of times both me and Mr Velopoulos, the President of the Greek Solution, as well as the other Members of the Greek Solution in many of our articles and speeches. We consider it totally unacceptable that vaccination should be mandatory. Of course we're vertically opposed. No reasonable man on this planet would want that. So obviously we never voted for such an article. I repeat: we have never voted for such an article. In Article 44, we find a bypass of local government bodies with programmes designed by the Ministry of Interior to deal with the coronary, for digital convergence, for development, etc., with loans to be made by municipalities. We are particularly concerned about all this because we do not know what economic problems it will lead the municipalities, since the central administration is allegedly deciding on development projects reflecting its own priorities. Finally, in Article 52, payments to researchers are suspended during the krone pandemic. That is not right, since research must never be stopped, and it can be done remotely. This employment holds some graduates in Greece who must not abandon it by failing to survive. A lot of our children have thrown us out and paid our own mistakes. We must stop this crime at last. This article must never be applied. That is why we have specifically requested Articles 43 to 46 to be withdrawn from the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u32	Ms. Fotini Bakadima has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fifth act of legislation which the Government is trying to legislate to support our country's economy, workers and production fabric. It consists of thirteen parts which touch the responsibilities of different ministries. For example, the Ministries of Economics, Labour, Development, Health, Education, Digital Governance, Migration and Asylum and much more. So let me start with the provisions concerning the Ministry of Labour. Let's see a little more detailed about what these are all about. 25% reduction for insurance contributions to be paid in advance for February and March, in the pattern of the deduction for VAT in the first part of this year. It's moving in the right line. Nevertheless, as we have repeatedly stated, for the months of the health crisis, both the deletion of VAT and the insurance contributions should apply. At the same time, companies are being given the opportunity to pay Easter's gift to workers by the end of June of this year. I agree that it will not be lost, I agree with what Mr Markopoulos said in his own position. However, we cannot overlook the fact that companies are being supported, as they are being given the opportunity to pay the Easter gift sooner, but because of the circumstances the New Democracy does not seem to think about the workers who needed the Easter gift to fill their already reduced wages, either because of the suspension of operation of the company where they work or the rotation of work and the reduction of wages to 50%. Remuneration of staff members of OEDs, OEDs and OEDs paid to trainees. Positive measures. However, many categories of workers remain out of provision for aid. A characteristic example is the category of those employed in two jobs, a lady to whom they are employed as employees and a secondary worker who, although their contract has been suspended in the main job, cannot receive any aid, as they continue to appear to be working in the second, even though they do not actually offer their services. After all, on this matter I have already tabled a question in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, and I really look forward to the Minister's reply. Prolongation of the regular grant of unemployment, long-term unemployment benefit and unemployment assistance for two months from their expiry date, substantially supplementing the previous MIP. Although a positive measure remains without any support at all, the majority of the long-term unemployed, especially those who have been without work for more than twenty-four months. Unfortunately, a feature of the New Democracy's lack of mood to help them is a recent comment from the top minister of the government, who, not least or much, accused them of evasion and "black" work, assuming that someone who has been unemployed for thirty, forty or fifty months cannot survive unless he is illegal. He apparently escaped that he may have a family that supports him, may have children helping him, but now they too will not be able to help him. Part Four and matters of responsibility of the Ministry of Health: Establishment of a Three-member Committee on Financial Enforcement of CIVID Special Account -19 by decision of the Ministry of Health. It is surprising that the members of the committee, such a committee as we are going through, will be paid for their services. We are truly very surprised and very much await the decision to set up the Ministry of Health as well as the OSH for their compensation, which will be borne by an already reduced budget for this year. Thus, instead of giving money, funds to meet the real needs of the health sector, will be granted as compensation for the six - three basic and three alternate - members of this committee, who will, at the very least, be persons of known prestige, with experience in the fields of economics and supplies. By changing the use of beds in clinical ICUs we fully agree, as with the ordering of vessels for the transport of patients. Recruitment of non-qualified medical personnel and subsidiary by a four-month contract: We continue to regard and state on every occasion that the subsistence of hospitals and health structures cannot continue to be treated with semi-metres except by recruitment of permanent staff now. The Fifth Part, which relates to the Ministry of Digital Governance, by reading it, was born a reasonable question: For in a pandemic-related MAGP there is a provision for staff from the Department of Digital Governance and the Ministry of Translation and Interpreters who will be transferred, occupying personal positions to the Ministry of Digital Governance. We would like to be clear on this and, above all, on what makes it imperative that this transfer be made today. Next part and articles on the competence of the Ministries of Home Affairs, Migration and Asylum and Civil Protection. Article on the functioning of the TAs, according to which the rotating convening of municipal and regional councils may take place with half the members instead of the two-thirds currently in force. However, they can do so by teleconferencing. We therefore ask ourselves why the necessary participation is being reduced. At the same time, exemptions from the application of five-day work by service, industry and number of employees may be introduced, in substance and in practice, by abolishing the weekend holiday. We hope that it will be a temporary measure and will not extend its validity after the restrictions have been lifted. Below, provision is made for the replacement of Article 69 of Law 4509/2017 in respect of the specific LAG development programmes I and II, a provision that changes the purpose of the development programmes, thus opening up the application vendals to reflect the prevailing socio-economic context, while at the same time setting up two financial instruments. The first is the conclusion of loans between the recipients of loans, a Liaison or a legal person with the Deposit and Loan Fund, and the second is direct financing in exceptional and urgent cases by the Ministry of Interior, following a grant decision and a loan contract concluded by the Ministry of Interior with the Deposit and Loan Fund, with the financing to be provided only after such a decision, without any formal invitation being required, provided that there is an emergency condition. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this provision strongly reminds us of the 11 billion allocated to canalarchs and the media, but also all the other aspects of the teletraining programme and the sharing of funding for this to seven companies. We fear that, once again, we will have the allocation of funds to 'letters'. Article 46 and emergency human resources issues in the public sector. It is an article enabling applicants for fixed-term recruitment to send the documents either electronically, or if they are recruited, to submit them at a later date. Fair because of the extraordinary circumstances. However, it remains to be seen whether it is transformed into an opportunity of recruiting with unsatisfactory or inappropriate qualifications, provided that a responsible statement has been given. Special purpose clerk leave. In accordance with the terms set out, the Secretary-General of Anti-Criminal Policy will be able to review and withdraw special-purpose licences issued to officials from local heads. Although subscribing structures is a consistent problem, we find it inconsistent to grant this possibility to the Secretary-General, because they are licenses of a particular purpose and are completely opposed to everything that has been set out in previous legislative acts, effectively depriving these workers of an important right. At the same time we would like to know what initiatives and measures to prevent the spread of the coronary in detention stores have been taken, given the deficiencies in both logistics and human resources. The provisions on hospital and medical care for officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who serve with authorities outside the European Union. Next part, provisions of the Ministry of Education. A large majority of them. However, we cannot fail to note how problematic the article extends the deadline for the submission of applications for authorisation to private IEKs and lifelong learning centres of both levels. The inclusion of such a provision in an act of legislation relating to the pandemic can only give rise to our minds to the teletraining programmes which have been launched and to all the phenomena of manoeuvre that we have seen, which have led to the withdrawal of the programme by decision of the Prime Minister himself. Unfortunately, the regular euphemism of scientists and the euphemism of voucher training, which the previous government has extensively implemented and continues from the present government, shows one thing, that practically nothing has changed, that the stifling of young scientists and entrepreneurs continues independently of the composition of the Ministerial Council and of which party ultimately has the rule of the country. Moving on, we have the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment with the absolutely reasonable extension of the power of urban regulations, but also with the second arrangements of the energy sector, which, although they seem to be based on a reasonable rationale, make us sceptical, given the prolongations they give for huge periods, with some reaching until July 2021, and we can only ask ourselves whether these are a precursor to the disastrous government plans for energy. Due to the circumstances, the extension of the next part concerning the Ministry of Culture, as well as the term of office of members of the board of directors and supervisory boards of the agricultural cooperatives. I would like to make a few brief remarks to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs. We would like clarification on the contracts that can be concluded for the exclusive service of a specific route or service, the way in which the beneficiaries are given and the conditions for granting the funding. In support of maritime work, we would like to see more important initiatives being taken than the prolongation of the grant of unemployment and insurance from the Navy House. As a Member of Parliament I have received many complaints from workers in the ship repair area of Perama, who, because of the pandemic, are subject to a contract suspension procedure without knowing whether they will return to work and, indeed, what status, when ship repair is unfortunately continuing many times under conditions of total lack of hygiene. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The government must take a clear position and place itself on this issue, also supporting this large part of our citizens, which is one of the weakest. As a result of the circumstances, we consider the extensions of maritime certificates and certificates to be expected.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u34	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u35	I will conclude in a minute, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been in our country two months since the coming of the coronary. We have all supported health measures from the outset. However, it is time to launch the implementation of the second phase. Our fellow citizens must see how preparations are being made to deal with the economic crisis that has not left. He never left our country, unfortunately. At the same time, they must see that their representatives in Parliament intend to clash when they are going to defend interests, especially the weaker ones, which the government has not shown, if we look at recent statements by its top officials. The New Democracy even now continues a legislative practice, bringing together positive and negative provisions, denying the possibility of wider support for points that are positive. He continues to look for accomplices as he refuses to do so, such as stopping the "HRAKLIS" project, to support low pensioners, long-term unemployed, uninsured, low-paid, ESS. PART25 will not consent by voting for draft laws that are inspired by the neoliberal ideology of the ruling party. That is why we shall vote against at first instance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u36	I call on the President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Velopoulos. Until the Step is ready, let me say that the President of the Change Movement Mr. Gennimatas will then speak, then Mr. Koutsoubas, then Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Varoufakis. All the Heads of State or Government have spoken, and I am announcing it now, so that there can be knowledge of the Members, because the parliamentary representatives will then be followed, and obviously the ministers, who will have to speak at one time and have not spoken yet. Mr. Velopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, in my view, it is better that the ministers do not speak much, but act much, because they are not speaking anymore. From channel to channel, from morning to night, we see a lot of ministers' naturalities speaking. And when you talk a lot, you make mistakes, like what happened with the vouchers and I'll talk to you in a little bit of this. Let's go to the bill: it's the government's logic for too long to work with the sense of'seeing and doing'. That is a wrong logic, Minister. I do not know who has breathed you into mind, but the logic of 'I see and do' applies. It is wrong, because it is very simply the logic of doses, that is, the measures with doses. You did not take a plan and said 'I implement this plan to do something about the economy'. You see and you do with doses, dosing, as if this story is a medicine. You know, in the gangrene with aspirins you're not going. You're going with mere surgical interventions and interventions in the economy. This is where we have gangrene in the economy. And because many of you do not know from an economy, because you are not an entrepreneur, and you do not have to know, Minister, I will tell you that two, three, four, five months will be closed, but they will pay rents, currents, OTE. Are you transferring them after three months? Let me take it. When the other one opens his shop in July, August - you tell him - his restaurant will have accumulated debts of three months and a turnover at all. Where did you learn these finances? How will this man pay his VAT, his rent, his tax? How's he gonna pay for all this? I mean, let's get this straight. What did you do for the good TVs, the "MEGA", the "SCAI", the "ALPHA", your pals, the big channels? You told them 'of the year you will now pay'. Do it here and tell the Greek people and businessmen "of the year you will pay". No, 'you will not pay', but 'after you have raised money, you will pay'. No "when you collect money you will pay, you do not want to." This is a very wrong tactic. I say this because I honestly see that in the bill in Article 14 it says: 'In the supermarket the number every fifteen metres is increasing.' Before he was a person every ten meters. Isn't that what you say in Article 14? Because that does not apply to the congregations. I'm asking you! Why does he also save a broad interpretation in the supermarket? But you shut it down. Tell me about it! This little grocery store is closed. The big ones, which are our buddies, working while the little ones don't work? Should the church be closed? I'm telling you a few examples. These are a few examples that I sincerely start and think about how sensible you are doing. Let's go to Article 17, subsidisation from the NRP. Open up, Minister, call your ministries. There are ready studies, ready files for investment in the NSRF at the Ministry of Rural Development. I'm telling you one thing: Twenty-five entrepreneurs have filed an investment file. The contest's closed, it's over. Check them, start them, get the food in, dig, pay in, start the process. The files have been closed for five months. I'm telling you about the N.R.R.D., not the vouchers you've made the foolishness you took the money from the N.R.R.D. and you put it there. Investment is co-financing, ESDP project. An industry wants to be in northern Greece. Why not do it today and wait when the Minister and his staff will open their drawer? I'm just telling you little things. In any case, if you go ahead, it will be done. Let's go to the direct assignments. Listen here: Articles 15, 26, 34-40, 43, 44, 45, 62, 66 are direct assignments. Is that how the government works? So you fucked with your vouchers, your buddies. And I say this because, rather, direct assignments remind the government of SYRIZA - ANEL, when Kammenos gave direct assignments and all the newly-democratic MPs were in the bars. Everyone was yelling and they were right. Direct assignment? In fact, today, there is a decision by Mr Mitarakis on EUR 4.5 million directly allocated to Malakasa. I'm about to testify to the FEK. Direct assignment? So, what are these things? Let's go to the rest with the vouchers. Minister, I see SYRIZA put a lot of water in his wine. You agreed something weird, and I didn't get it? You've escalated it. I have listened to you and spoke with very civil courtesy, Mr President. You did this, and you're right. People went to make fun of each other. You came here with a civil courtesy, you left-wing, and you talk to them like you're friends. I don't know. Did you agree to that? Because I see that you, too, were giving the voucher millions before the elections. You were giving some millions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u38	Agenda of the New Republic
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u39	In 2018, the New Democracy was not. Was it New Democracy? On 19 September 2018, unemployed training - you know what programmes these are - 89 million euros. On 15 November 2018 EUR 17,5 million. On 11 November 2018, teletraining 49m euros. These are your programs. Probably because the Minister of Development, the other one, the bully, Mr. Georgiadis, said he'd look into it all. Now they'll be looking for them a year later. Because you cornered them, they'll be looking. And I came here, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, invoked the Old Testament, the New Testament, "whee me, scribes and Pharisees", I'll tell him something better. Do you know "the stealing"? Ten orders! So leave the Old Testament, leave the New Testament and see what you went to do. Because what you've done is stealing, real stealing and serving friends and besties. That's what you did. Don't make fun of the world. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And it is now up to each other and the New Democracy says: 'You who did it with the millions'. SYRIZA says: "You who did this" and we will go to a settling, nice and nice. I'm glad Mr. Tsipras will be here today. If it hadn't come, it would have meant they had an agreement, because Mr. Mitsotakis isn't here. The Prime Minister didn't come here. Why? With a major issue of millions of euros with voucher, can the Prime Minister not be here? He should be the Prime Minister here. Why is he fugitive? Why isn't he here? For me, my friends and friends, my Minister, the question is not whether your ministers enjoy the confidence of the Prime Minister. The last thing I care about is this. I am interested in something very important: who enjoyed the millions they would receive. Which friends of your Ministers would be either best friends or relatives who would take the millions of euros and enjoy it in the summer in Mykonos - because that is where I know most of them are going - as Milionis, your best friend did. An apple with the "ENERGA"! Go and open the champagne of EUR 1000, which neither you nor I - I may see - but, in any case, some of you will never see, because you do not have the money and it makes sense. He's the one who opened them. He ate millions of euros and circulates out with his partner. This is Greece. That's what you did to Greece. So friends and acquaintances would have enjoyed them, unfortunately. And what did you do now? You made Mr. Brutsi take it back. He took it back. After your Minister was wrong, shouldn't any Minister pay the mistake? He's a friend too, Mr. Yannis Vrutzis, but he made a mistake - I'll say I am. Yes, but these mistakes are paid by the Greek people. He's not paying for it. The wrong politician pays it by dismissal or resignation. There's nothing else, guys. Don't be fooled! To say we were wrong, we were wrong, or we're mocking people. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] As far as the Eurobond of Germany is concerned, I will say something very simple. Here comes Armageddon. My dear Minister, you come from a rural area. I have said a thousand times to you and to your Government that if we want to make real safeguard structures for the country's tomorrow, we must support the primary sector, but in its fourth and fifth generations and not in the second generation and go to another industrialisation of the rural economy. Unfortunately, Greece is facing huge problems. I won't tell about the banks or the auctions. I'll just say you did it well with the auctions, you gave it all to the fund. Do the same with the borrowers, call them and say "children, the fund gets their loans with 3%, with 5%, with 10%. Take 15% of you." See how the Greek runs to pay and how the Greek is willing to pay the 15% of his loan, not the 1215% you earned in interest. But what are you guys doing? You do not postpone auctioning for a year, as you did in canalarchs. I'm telling you this. You want an extension? A year to them, too. Not only to canals for a year, but also to auctions for a year. Auction freeze. Not only to our friends canals to play us all day long and melt us down, we had holy days! So something else is going on. For the economy I will tell you as a historian - archaeologist something very simple that is the law of history. History has always shown that after pandemics there is a recession in the economy. This has been happening since Pericleus, with Pericleus' infection. The same will happen here, global recession. Unfortunately, however, in many cases after the recession there is a war. I wish there'd never be a war. And when I say "war" I refer to a large-scale war. Never be a war. But the war that comes is economical, Minister. I'm telling you right now. The countries will be shut down in their crab. There won't be any exports. And I ask you this: when Greece has imported meat, imported wheat, imported milk, if we are closed down the border? I'll tell you in one word: it's simple, we'll starve. What, then, should the politician who should have the perfect interpretation of the terms in his life? To predict. As it comes, then, it is hunger that all parties together have to agree on a development programme for the primary sector and reduce the import shear. What's simpler than that? The outflow, that is, foreign exchange. I say it, I call it, but no one listens. They're coming here and everyone's on the way to giving up there and there. Yeah, give but there's no money. What do we have to do? To produce wealth. If you do not produce wealth either primaryly, secondaryly, or in processing, you are finished. I say it again and again. Don't expect Germany to save you. Germany has a nazi attitude, and some have misinterpreted it, Mr. Lebanese. I've said it a thousand times, from behavior doesn't mean it's a nazi state and its citizens. Germany's behaviour is authoritarian, authoritarian, nazi. That's how they inspire. I grew up there and I know Germany quite well. The Germans' behavior is that. Just like ours with the honor is different. Like the Italians, it's different. They have an authoritarian behavior. That is what I said and do not misinterpret many times from you here as a reason for writing. And I say: Europe's problem is that it has no leaders, it does what Germany wants, and it will not make a Eurobond out of anything and it will force you to go and borrow again. With 200% debt, where are we going, guys? Where are we going? Where are we going? Who are we kidding? You don't have a plan, there's no plan, everything seeing and doing. There's gonna be a fourth memorial, and it's a given if we go to the ESS. Lending SYRIZA, borrowing New Democracy and transferring debts to our children in 2027. That's what you're doing. That's how SYRIZA did, so do you, raise the debt. The only way to produce wealth is to produce wealth. As far as tourism is concerned, I have told you a thousand times that if you want to open hotels to open them. But with one obligation, no tax on hotels. They will not pay a tax, but they will get Greek products and only Greek products. Do this at least. Do you give 1,000 euros, 800 euros, 600 euros to the Greeks? Give them another 200 euros in vouchers with Greek products. To take Greek honey, Greek cheese, Greek milk - but Greek! - to initiate the production process. How much simpler does the Greek Solution have to do with specific proposals? You turned the Greeks into wardrobes. Understood? Forty-forty years our logic was as follows: the tourist industry. Crazy industry. To be a wardrobe. Farm crops have been devastated. The fishing industry has been devastated. We were subsidising to finish our boats, but that's another story. All this shows that we did it all the wrong as a state. Let's make it from zero now, 'cause we're at zero, and I say it with soul pain. Since 1981 the European Union has been pushing us to demarcate fishing zones. The date is March 2021. You know that? Greece is the country that has not designated fishing zones. Since 1981 the European Union has been waiting. You do it! Why don't you do it? You won't do that either, because you're afraid of the Turks and it's for granted. Here we have the proposal - you who are the Macedonians - because the amendment of the Rules of Procedure enabled ten Members to table a proposal for a committee of inquiry. Let me see you all now. I also saw Mr. Markopoulos at the symposiums for Macedonia. Let me see what he's gonna do now. Will he vote for a committee of inquiry to see how he voted and how did we go to the Prespecies Agreement on the betrayal of Macedonia? We've got her ready. We filed her. I'll give it back to the Minutes in a little while. This proposal will reveal the staff of the New Democracy. Why? He was motivating the rally, sending people to the syriza rallys on the deal, but since he came out, he applies it out of the open despite Skopje violations, because they are already violating the deal. So let me see how many neo-democrats will agree to set up a committee of inquiry for the name of Macedonia. Let me see how many Macedonian MPs will do the debt. I can imagine that no one, because within the framework of the'state', the New Democracy will continue its distorting, treasonal agreement. You, friends and friends, - and I'm just finishing up - fool the Greek people for a while. It is a given, you fooled them all and took the vote, you stole the vote of the Greek people. For a while you can fool them, but you can't always fool us. You can't fool them. You became the same as SYRIZA and the implementation of anti-national choices and economic choices. And there are a lot of questions that I could put forward right now. For example, I discern contradictions from the communication group that succeeded in the coronary. We were told, "Don't put it, it doesn't protect you," they said later. "Glove it", "do not put it, you'll get your face." This known group, Chardalias, and his company were telling it. 'Start home', 'the measures will relax'. 'Children will go to school'. 'Children can, however, become vectors of the virus'. All this shows something, that is, you're gaining the battle of channels with a lot of money, your right. But when the story comes backwards, I see you take the channels. Why don't you keep giving money, you'll give it once, twice, it'll end the story, and then "water pesos, you'll get a man shaved" you'll be. You will be cut off all the channels that today love you very much. I have questions that need answers. I'll testify now. Where should the government answer? Is there a timeframe for gradual removal of coronary measures? Will the Minister tell us? Will the Prime Minister tell us? How will the government deal with the huge wave of redundancies? Is there a provision and a provision? How will the damage to the economy be covered by the tourism disaster? Is there care? Is the government ready for a world product war? Has he put aside supplies? We'll have flaws, that's for sure. What about the loans? You're not telling us. What about the auctions? You're not telling us. Is there a money outflow abroad? What about the Armed Forces? Do we have cases? We don't have one? Because in structures we have. Here I will say: you want many proposals from you. If I were a government, Minister, I would not let the shipowners only name it, as Mr Villard said very well, but my country would save oil so that I would have a low price when the development process starts, I would already have energy to develop my economy. There are solutions, for brains I don't know! What did I propose now? Just don't let Marinakis and their other friends, shipowners save the state of oil. You can't do that. I know. But there are proposals, as long as you want to implement them. And there are other proposals, Minister. If New Democracy does not stop Lockdown soon, restaurants, cafes, small shops, they will all be closed because they accumulate debts that you do not erase, you do not extend and you will have to pay everything. We'll be done. We'll have a country real lockdown. The country will close. About your budget. Who are you mocking in here? You brought a budget and voted for it. But he's out of time. He's derailed. Bring in a new budget. Why don't you bring in, Minister? Am I right? It's a derailed budget. We have an emergency. The first thing the Prime Minister should have done if he was honest - honest - is man, I said nothing - if he was serious, to bring a budget, new, modified to see what you are going to do. Will you change the status of hotels? Will you have real tourism? Unfortunately you don't. I am closing, because I have been informed that Mrs Gennimata wants to speak as well, saying: Honestly, what have you done for so many years with the banks? We proposed 'bad bank'. Why don't you do that, my Minister? Why don't you copy the Greek Solution? You copy it that you copy it, copy it and distort it. In 1933 America was "bad bank" and succeeded. Is that so hard? You insist on the plan 'HERAKLIS'. You have degraded every concept of ancient Greek, "KALITHENIS", "KLITHENIS", "KALIKRATS". You're exorcising the concepts. You put the plan "HRAKLIS" to get the houses of the Greeks and the Greek will hate Hercules as a name and historical team, of course. Let's not be fooled. Finally, I will tell you this: you need to take care of the primary sector, fisheries, agriculture and livestock. You guys left the goats! We brought goats from Romania, Minister! Minister Vorides protested why the Romanians closed their borders. They did well, they closed it for their citizens. He sent a letter of protest to the Commission. Are you all right? It's all your fault in here that we didn't do anything to support the farmer. Let's go to our place. You did everything against the Orthodox Church. Everything! The virus is transmitted by the loudspeakers, the virus is transmitted by the bells, the virus is transmitted by the Holy Light. And today I hear Minister Keramea saying "The loudspeakers are low when the mosques have Ramadan". She had an appeal in Ramadan. In Ramadan the New Democracy's gentlemen call for 'the loudspeakers lower'. But to Christians, Minister? All forbidden. Everything, but everything! So the virus is not transmitted by bell or by loudspeaker. Let's get this straight. Now if you have a problem with Christ and not with the virus, it's your issue, not ours. You have a problem with Christ and not with the virus. You have a problem with Christianity and Orthodoxy and not with Ramadan. Don't smile! Why did he make a statement today, Minister, your Government 'broadcasts in mosques'? Tell me about it! And why didn't you say the bells ring low-speaking? Beat the loudspeakers, too? Tell me about it! You don't say that, though. Unfortunately, you are Christian. You did what Nero and Diocletian did. Unfortunately, that is what you have done. And, fortunately, in the New Democracy there are also bright minds, like you, who are Christians, because many in there are anti-anti-anti-anti-institutors. I don't know if you know what "antinativist" means, but look a little bit further - the Prime Minister said it - to find it. In closing, I'm going to testify to what you've done with illegal immigrants in the Minutes. I ask you, Minister, this: is it possible to give 4.5 million directly to Malakasa? What are spores and, well, we're sharing them and today get a direct assignment? I would also like to ask something else: Is it symptomatic that in Kranidi, those who had the virus came from Samos and ten days before they went to Samos came from Turkey? If you look for the Somalians and the Congolese who came to Kranidi and Malakasa, the new cases came from Turkey a month and a half ago. You took them to Samos and from Samos they came here. So you have to understand that the hybrid war that you and Evros were talking about is now coming from the islands. If you want to solve the issue of illegal immigrants, I will tell you once again: close the NGOs. Close them all! Reorder logic, look for what is right to function, but slave trades are cut. They go to uninhabited islands. Ask Skull, who is near Porto Heli, Minister, who has tourism and what will happen to people. I'm talking to people there. What's gonna happen to them? You know? There will be no tourist in the area. Even Greek won't go. And it's also a shipowner's area, the friends of the New Democracy! They have their nice villas there. You're smiling, I know, but that's the way it is. There are the shipowners with their troubles. They're going with the boat, the sharpest. How's Greek going to the beach? It won't go. And it's not just Skunk. It's very difficult with illegal immigrants. I will read to you what your Prime Minister said, how consistent it is in his words and in his works: On 9 November 2019, 16.31: "Last mass transport of illegal immigrants..." - immigrants says - "...from the islands on the mainland will be that". "In the great effort the government is making to dismantle the islands by illegal immigrants, the Prime Minister said. He made it clear that this is the last time..." - November 2019 - "...which became a mass transfer of migrants..." - he says - "...from the islands to the mainland." It happened yesterday too. They brought a thousand five hundred. When did he lie? Now? Yesterday? The other day? Decide. I'll tell you straight away, you can make fun of the Greek people as much as you want. We will be here, however, so as not to allow you to mock us and the Greek people. This story won't go on. You're making fun of the Greeks. You're one year government and you've done nothing. All you do is help your channels, friends - and well you do, your right - give silver and moan you all day. I repeat, however, that it is time that when you go to the fund, you get the channels together badly, because you don't lie to politics. You're making me politics. In words, you don't make politics, you make me a politician. Where is the Prime Minister answering today? Why didn't he come here? The vouchers? After SYRIZA gazed you. Looks like you've found them, and the congression is close. So somewhere here I would like to put to the Minutes the Greek Solution proposal and invoke the national pride of the newly-democratic MPs and other Macedonian colleagues to sign up to see why we have led us to the Prespecies Agreement. The Committee of Inquiry into why Mr Kotzias took us to the Prespecies Agreement. We don't say court, but let's see if there's treason, go to justice properly, for justice to be done, Minister. I hope you sign at least, because some others won't sign, I'm sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u40	The President of the Movement of Change, Mr. Gennimata, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like, first of all, to wish you all many years, in health, and I think that at this time we are all more aware of the essence of this wish than ever before. I can only begin with what happened yesterday at the Council summit where decisions were not taken once again. All questions have been left unanswered and all issues open. Unfortunately, we're wasting valuable time. And a little late, as Mrs Lagard said. But with hesitation, and with divisions, the Union is not going forward. And that is what we must finally all understand. It is simply undermining its future and at the moment when they are caring for all forms of populism and Euroscepticism. The crisis is not treated with painkillers and aspirins. The relaunching of economies and, in particular, the indebted countries, is a very difficult and composite case. It wants brave and unconventional measures, it wants new money, it wants a European Marshall Plan, it wants a special bond, it wants grants at last, and not loans to the Member States. Yesterday I had the opportunity to speak in detail. The Spanish proposal contains many of our recommendations - it could be supported - and it was a solution. The reason from now on lies with the governments and their responsibility is very great. That's why I want to repeat that Mr. Mitsotakis should be leading in this case and not hide behind the positions of McCrone, Conde or Sanchez. Now I come to the war against the pandemic in our country. Our first concern, all first concern and first battle is to save human lives. We contribute to this in every way, and we insist on strengthening the National Health System. Parallel and critical battle is the battle to keep the economy alive and society upright in the crisis. That is why we are intervening, contributing with proposals, but planning tomorrow, responsible and useful opposition in practice. However, this does not mean silence or tolerance, much more in failures, injustices and above all in unacceptable actions by the government. The lights of publicity have dropped in the last few days in the voucher scandal. What exactly happened? The need for financial support for scientists was used to share 36m euros in the companies with the special platforms, which are effectively controlled by three, four close friends to the government. A total of 88 million would share in all kinds of mediators for monkey projects. This has also been revealed by the government of artefacts - and this is why it has run to collect its laundry. At the same time that hundreds of thousands of unemployed are left without any help at all, unreliable by the government. We will insist that the case be investigated and that the whole truth come out in the light, because even the argument that money should be raised in retrospectively by the NSRF proved to be unscathed. A European Union document revealed that self-employed people could be subsidised directly on the basis of the new data now in force for the crisis. The government didn't even ask for it. That's the truth. And evil and lies. We feel justified. First, we denounced from 27 March the setting up of the scam. Mr. Mitsotakis' naughty retreat doesn't relieve him. That's where orders and decisions come from. And they don't just make mistakes and omissions. Especially in the workplace, they implement a specific agenda and the responsibility lies first with the Prime Minister. It was agreed and presented to the Prime Minister's office. That is why the Minister of Labour is still in place while everyone is emptying it. His answer to the House yesterday, who was it? Be careful, he says: “All the same things have been done. SYRIZA's Minister had favoured them.' Well, congratulations to both of us for the same tricks. What can I say? On the occasion of this I would like to point out that the crisis cannot be the pretext for opacity, as is done with continued direct assignments of millions of euros, which have nothing to do with urgent needs. At the forefront of the coronary dispersion, we had alarming effects yesterday. What does it prove, ladies and gentlemen? It turns out that where the individual responsibility of the citizens, which are disciplined by scientists, is enough, things are going well. The problems exist in cases of high risk of proliferation, such as closed or other structures with vulnerable and vulnerable groups, where the government had to act much more quickly and preventively. We had warned in time about the need to monitor and carry out tests in structures that are socially vulnerable and vulnerable, in private clinics, in nursing homes, in Roma camps, in reception structures for refugees and migrants. As it turns out, protocols were issued with instructions, but then no effective checks were carried out to see if these directives were implemented, nor did anyone bother to carry out the necessary tests in time where there was a high risk. The problems now appear in Larissa, in New Makri, in Ritsona, in Kranidi, yesterday in Peristeri and in the south of Athens, where there is also a question with the framework of the private clinics, and we need to see this instantly. The government is now running backwards and we hope that the problems will be reduced here. But some people have a clear responsibility for what is happening. Ladies and gentlemen, we have never reached an end to the measures taken by the government. But it's inadequate. Despite corrective movements and after our pressure, there are delays in their implementation. And there are omissions and negative actions by the government, some of which I want to highlight today from this Step. Firstly, the government's categorically refusing to recognise in practice - not air words - the work of the health workers of the National Health System, by joining heavy and unhealthy. Secondly, the government's refusal to cover with the special allowance the three hundred thousand unemployed registered in the OAED, who have absolutely no support, the hundreds of thousands of pensioners who have not yet been retired, but also thousands of tourism workers who work in flexible forms of employment. Thirdly, the attempt to introduce rotating work throughout the private sector with 50% of the wage for workers, with the most famous Article 9 of the Act of Legislative Action. Fourthly, the conscious delay in declaring the sectoral food supply contract compulsory. It is not the duty of the Minister, whom he has invoked, to prevent him, but anti-State policies which he applies with the mandates and approval of the Prime Minister. They left the weakest. We will be fighting against this draft government's plan to 'pay the marble' again, the workers, the unemployed, our weakest fellow citizens. Next to the world of work, as a counterweight to this attempt to become the new crisis, a new opportunity for further deterioration of the working relationships and incomes of workers. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate gives us the opportunity to talk about other serious issues relating to Greek small and medium-sized enterprises and the weaker ones. The Greek small and medium-sized enterprises are still the backbone of the economy, and that is why the state must stand alongside them in practice now that they are being put out of this crisis and the consequences of the restrictive measures, in order to withstand, not to have locks again and not to lose thousands of jobs. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] So I want to dwell on three specific problems. Firstly, it is the question of lending small and medium-sized enterprises. The terms of the banks do not serve them. The bad experience of the banks' unacceptable attitude is also dissuasive. This is a position which, unfortunately, continues when there is such a insistence on strict banking criteria that ignore both the reality and the strict warnings of the European Central Bank. Above all, the bank profit. Because it is not possible for the European Central Bank to lend banks at a negative interest rate, the state's guarantees to reduce the risk and continue to do so. The restoration of liquidity must be carried out primarily on the basis of the viability of the companies. Secondly, the so-called ‘refundable advance’. It's a loan that the state is supposed to give to facilitate business. And here the government has set banning conditions for most of them, which is why interest is extremely low. Third, it insists on the advance tax payment for 2020, based on the revenues of 2019. What does the 2019 data and incomes have to do with what is now happening in the crisis in the coronary pandemic? That is why we tabled three amendments. Firstly, for this year in particular, the advance payment of tax for all enterprises must be reduced to at least 50% and for those who are closed or are most affected it must be zero. Second, suspension of first home auctions. It concerns weaker borrowers who are unable to pay their debts and, of course, very many small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. From 1 May the auctioning of the first place shall be fully liberalised. Is it possible to demand the money outside their homes for our fellow citizens, the weakest in this situation? I think it's incomprehensible. You announced the opening of chambers of tribunals, but the way you do it, without a solution to the auctions, it is clear that you are doing so only, so that the auctions can proceed. Only the banks win from it. Thirdly, practical recognition of the work and the social provision of staff of the national health system and workers on the front line of dealing with the pandemic, integration of public health at last into heavy and unhealthy health. I've been counting for days. For at least two months, Mr. Mitsotakis has been silent. That's not enough of the balconies' applause. When will you finally take the next step and join the heavy and unhealthy? That's what you have to do right now. Extension of the grant of the Easter allowance to all the fighters in the front line, to police officers, officers of the Armed Forces, social structures, to “Help at Home” and, of course, to cleaning services. I will then table the Minutes and the three amendments and I invite you to accept them. Ladies and gentlemen, the next day after the pandemic will be a different day for the whole world, and of course it will be a different day for states, for societies, for citizens, for politics. We, the prolongation of change, will be here to take the lead in the new course of Greece and Europe, a course that concerns, not a particular elite and its profits but the many. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u44	Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u45	Look, it seems that the coronary pandemic has faced the epidemic of our amendments. But he temporarily suspended her. Today, two amendments were tabled during the bill and four more were tabled since yesterday. This cannot go on. As the House does, it is not possible to table amendments during a legislative act and even important amendments, such as the second one that has been tabled today. It's an unacceptable process. In our view these amendments should not be discussed today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, I too would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u47	Please, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, I do not know whether Mr Karathanasopoulos, if he saw these four amendments, I did not see them. There is, Mr President, an agreement. I apologise to the Secretary of the Communist Party, Mr Koutsuba, to clarify this. The agreement we have made since the first day of the pandemic which Parliament has left open, on the basis of the decision you have taken at the conference, is that amendments can only be tolerated if they relate to the draft law, to the act of legislation, namely the crisis. If there is an amendment, even 10% of it, which is irrelevant, we are even thinking of leaving. That's not what we're joking about. It's not the House open to become wicked. The House is open to deal with the problem of pandemic, to exercise parliamentary control over it, and the government to analyse its policies. Please take a look at this. We haven't seen them. I don't know if they were distributed now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, I would like the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u50	Here you go, Mr. Levane.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u51	What the two parliamentary representatives have said has a proper basis. What has been done throughout the crisis, and I think we are all proud of it, is that Parliament has remained open, parliamentary control has worked and democracy gives us examples. The logic agreed at the Conference of Presidents by all parties is that there will be no parliamentary amendments and simply amendments which help to manage the government, this crisis. So let's see them. I think you do not disagree, my dear fellow Member, you have read them. All the ministers are here, as they are all these days, as is the Prime Minister when needed, to have a fundamental debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u52	Thank you. There will be a consultation with the President of Parliament and we will inform you, Mr Loverdo, that is what we can do and that is what we will do. Now there is the floor for the Secretary-General of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech with the recent tragic incidents in private clinics, with many coronary cases and unfortunately the deaths of our fellow people who, as the responsible ones have said, are due to poor compliance with the protocols and hygiene measures. Don't make the unscrupulous or the surprised ones. Since the first moment of the pandemic there have been official complaints of workers and their associations in private health that private centres are not observing the measures, that even workers suspected of having been forced to work. There have been many reports of complaints at "RIZOPASTI" for too many days. You should have taken measures and the most important of them would, of course, be the private sector's order that would enter under public control. The task of the private health sector, which has nothing to do with the rental of certain services to which you and SYRIZA referred, would not only ensure adequate means of means, but would also prevent such public health risks. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the next day is very well aware that it is not just about gradually lifting the restrictions imposed by the coronary pandemic. Here we will be discussing in detail, not only how we will gradually come back to normality, as you usually say, but above all what specific measures to protect the health of workers need to accompany this gradual relaxation of restrictive measures. Because cases may be limited, beds at the ICUs may be empty, deaths may have been limited - and we are all happy about that - but we all know that we have not resolved with pandemic while treatment has not been found, much more the vaccine. Here we will be again in order to assess the state of the public health system, not only to deal with a new wave of pandemic, but also to respond to the needs of the people for care, treatment, which, as you know, have entered second degree, although we are talking about diseases for which more losses are counted every year by the coronary. The recruitment of health workers does not cover at least the gaps that existed in normal conditions, especially in these emergencies of the pandemic, and there is no different plan if the people are faced with the next wave of pandemic. The clinics, the laboratories that have closed down, the surgery, the external doctors that have suspended their operation, must not only open up and remain open, but must also serve all patients, and that is why all the necessary recruitment of permanent health personnel must be made immediately. However, ladies and gentlemen, the next day is mainly about the management of the new economic capitalist crisis that has been before the gates with the pandemic, not to create, but simply to speed up its coming, as we have been warning you as a party for too long. What is the government doing all this time? He is preparing the ground simply to load this up-to-date crisis back on the workers' backs, in order to have the least possible losses of big capital, of course, to shield his profitability, his follow-up to rapid recovery. Your old art sieve of all of you, because all of you governments managed the previous crisis from New Democracy and PASOK to SYRIZA, that was the agony, to clean off the capital and let the people sink to the tartars. The gentlemen of the New Democracy Government have already begun warnings about the worst. What other than a warning to the people is what you say that the management of the pandemic is a guarantee of management and of the economic crisis? Just as you charged the workers and the people with the consequences of the pandemic to protect various business groups and their profits, so you will also charge them the burdens of the crisis. And you have the courage to say that you allegedly shared the burdens of pandemic fairly! How fair are thousands of workers losing their jobs in just a few days? How fair, on the one hand, is it to change working relations towards the worst, working people to become flexible, to try new forms of exploitation on their back, such as teleworking? How fair is it that thousands of workers are unleashed in factories, supply chains and supermarkets, conspiring dangerously in workplaces without protection measures, turning into public transport? How fair is it to be threatened by manoeuvre so that they do not get the permission of a special purpose, even to return to the grim allowance of EUR 800? How fair it is that they should be blackmailed in order not to declare that they have symptoms, that they hide cases, that the security measures, as well as any supervision by competent agencies, should be removed, why does the job have to come out, why is the economy supposedly crying out of it? And because you have made your "mark" the allowance of 800 euros, the special purpose allowances paid by the dropper and with the exception of many branches, for example, of scientists, once again tell you that they are dropping in the ocean. It is not enough to ensure an elementary decent living. Of course, these measures are not just your patent. It is the official policy of the European Union that is implemented in all countries, both in those countries with right-wing, centre-right, neoliberal governments, and in those who are supposedly ruling, central-left, social-democratic parties. Of course, there is another serious side. It is the grey zone of those workers who are under the radar, who are not registered anywhere, i.e. those who are half-em ployed, hourly, waged. Every day we receive complaints and messages from such a world. These people, who no longer have any income, who are not entitled to the special purpose allowance or the unemployment benefit, are literally living a nightmare today. Take measures now, to secure an elementary income for all. From the notorious ‘cushion’ will it be, from other sources will it be? The fact is that all this has come from the drain literally of the Greek people that you have done to date and must now be given to ensure the survival of the workers first. And leave these 'graves', which the Prime Minister also says about socialist measures that you are allegedly taking. It was done before you "caramella" of course, by SYRIZA, who also called socialism the cut of pensions and poverty benefits. Now you have taken it too, to cover the fact that the popular layers, it is the workers who pay the marble, and many of them have no support, not even these poorly paid benefits. "Extreme measures will continue as long as necessary to live in business," says the Minister of Energy, Mr. Brutsis, who also has his honour these days. He knows something to say. After all, this is its specialty, the services of all kinds of great entrepreneurs, with everything that is anti-virtual and barbaric means that to the workers themselves. Last, of course, we have seen that this particular minister of the New Democracy specializes in teletraining. That's how it's usually done to the anti-popular governments. Ministers specialize to do the dirty work. This, of course, does not at all relieve the Civic Opposition, which found a way out of its embarrassment to criticise, because it is indeed worth wondering how and for so many years in the SYRIZA government they have never wondered about the quality of the training programmes offered by the institutions they themselves certified. Can one seriously believe that as long as training is traded it can also keep the level of education provided? Can the private person, the owner of a training structure, put the education of the people, the children of the people, above his own profits? And by the way, neither of you, nor you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, nor you, gentlemen of KINAL, dare say that there should be a safeguard for scientists to receive the full allowance of EUR 800. The workers, however, have caught the implied government. Exceptional anti-corruption measures have come to stay, and when this emergency situation passes, there will have been a more permanent, savage labour market which is more flexible to eliminate workers, but more friendly for the profits of the few. That's the target. You know very well that these measures, which you allegedly have as support for work, are, in fact, only support for large-scale employers. Who wins from intensification of work in the branches that didn't stop, but are they currently working in the Full House? Who wins from antique measures, but also from all kinds of facilities and the accompanying exemptions? Who wins from suspending employers' payments to state and insurance funds, from wage and loan subsidies to employers, the full legal coverage to apply all kinds of alternative measures together? And in order to prevent you, you do not benefit the self-employed, the micro-enterprises with the Greek data. You know very well that the professionals and merchants who were already fighting for their survival, now, with the pandemic, were under attack. We believe that the Greek people have been experienced after ten years of memoranda, where exceptional measures have been implemented by all governments. Aren't these the measures that, from an emergency that started and supposedly temporarily, became more permanent? However, workers have already paid a lot, both with the recent crisis and with the consequences of the pandemic. They mustn't and they won't accept to bleed again. We should not allow this to happen again. That is why mobilisation, action, claim, organization must be strengthened so that the Greek people do not pay again for the crisis. The racing initiatives within the difficult conditions of this new, last period, which continue on 28 April with the universal day of action in the workplace, are a reserve for the struggles of our people and the next day. Gentlemen of the government also brought a bill for consultation on education in pandemic conditions when all the teachers, teachers, teachers, students, parents, students tell you for some time not to bring it, do not testify. Today, at this time, they are represented outside the House, precisely to condemn this action. In fact, why should such a precursor, in principle, go through measures in these circumstances and, in fact, when you have not solved a number of serious problems in education in these circumstances, when you do not really support the work of teachers, do you not universally assist students with support instruments? You'll tell us that you think that's how this improves school. Do you really understand the upgrade, and in circumstances after a pandemic, by raising the number of pupils in primary school and kindergarten and, in other words, speaking hypocritically to avoid crowding? Really, wasn't it enough for her people's family and her children to examine a high school competition? Wasn't it enough that they put their hand in the pocket more and more deep, which Mr. Gabroglou would solve, of course, before? And now you guys get the thread from where SYRIZA left it. From where and until where, with a pan-language-type exam from the first to the third high school, will the high school be upgraded? A new towel, as he brought in 2014, will bring with the Government of New Democracy then, with an increase of 600% of the retired. The teacher will be forced to "run" the material, the "sos", to work to catch the whole range of issues, basically with the good students, without computing the specificity of each class. We are going to move even more strongly into situations with children from the people's strata to resign because of the pressure from this effort to educate yet - why not? - and for admission to universities. Or is that exactly what you want to prevent? The students will fight this bill with their parents. Whether I'm closed or open schools will figure out the way. Because life always finds a way to express itself, to win the dark. And let you threaten by introducing the “world” conduct again, as if that is the problem now. We are telling you very clearly. Take it back and look at the other serious problems. Give an exact date for the pan-Hellenic. Take measures to make the pan-Hellenic examinations in the best terms for students and teachers. The JRC's proposal on this issue is very specific. Contains up to dates. We also give it to you in the Minutes, although we believe that you have already taken it into consideration. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening at European Union level is nothing more than trying to bridge, with a timely compromise, the major contradictions between its Member States. This is precisely the European Union, the association of competing capitalist states and economies, which each offer their own interests to the detriment of others. As for the infamous European solidarity that you have all remembered, this is another illusion of yours, not to say mockery against the people, to accept your choices. We saw them yesterday at the summit. The competitions around the issue of debt management will re-establish this period. They also confirm this hideous nature of the Union. The Eurobond is the request from the highly indebted eurozone countries to support only their own monopolies and not, of course, their own peoples. The real question from the point of view of our people is: New loans, whether they come through the mechanisms of the ESM, or through a single bond or a common fund, who will be fruitful and who will pay them? We say there will be few fruits, the monopolistic groups, in particular, and many people, workers and people will pay for them again. So people have a choice in front of them, to start slowly dismantling this reactionary structure called the 'European Union', by creating new cooperation, new alliances of mutual benefit, throwing out the drones, claiming the people of Europe themselves power. That is what hope and perspective lie ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u54	Thank you to the Secretary-General of the JRC. We must apologise for the delay in giving you the floor, because at some point the ministers had to be informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u55	It's all right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u56	The amendments tabled by Mr Karathanasopoulos and Mr Lovers have been raised. There has been a consultation and we have been assured that all the amendments tabled have to do with the pandemic. So the government needs to explain each amendment and its relationship with the pandemic in detail. Mr Adonis Georgiadis has asked for the floor on the amendments. How much time do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u57	I need some time. As long as it takes. Mr Secretary-General, I'm so sorry for a long time ago. The decibels of my voice sometimes are a little louder. Amendment No 277/47 is the amendment by the Ministry of Development. He's got six articles. The first two articles concern the faster and more flexible operation of the Development Bank. As you know, in the crisis, the Development Bank is becoming a key tool in dealing with the impact of the coronary on the economy. The first article takes off the 15% threshold, which was the maximum that we could get from the public to the Development Bank and the remaining 85% had to be recruited by the private sector. We are generally in favour of the private sector. However, in this case, because recruitment procedures are too slow - because they have special procedures, because they are the responsibility of the government in fact, and we will go too - too late - so that we can manage the bank we want that 15% limit and move from the public more officials to the Development Bank. Paragraph 2 - the second of which is of interest and of greater interest - enables the Development Bank, once we decide, to go and lend itself directly to certain companies. Today this can only be done through bank funds. The third article is an extension of the term of office of members of the administrative and supervisory boards of the supplying pharmaceutical cooperatives. Why, Mr. Loverdos? Because they had to have elections now. They can't have elections now, because they're the virus. We are therefore giving an extension of two months and we are taking the legislative power to give another four months, if necessary and not over, so that we do not come to Parliament again. So if the measures are over in the two-month period, the two-month period for elections to be held, if they go later, should we go a little later. Article 4 and Article 5 are arrangements for chambers. What's that? Article 5 has to do with regulations whereby chambers in the middle of the crisis can increase by 2.5% from their regular budgets, that is, from their own money, the subsidies they will make to the public. Now the limit is 5%. 5% in the context of the crisis has been considered a little bit. In a reasoned view they can apply to the Ministry of Development and increase the donation to the government of up to 7.5% of their annual budget. Article 4 is the recognition of the pre-service for the salary equation of the employees of those curators who had gone from the chamber development companies to the chambers, which had been transferred in 2017. They had a difference in their wages. We have now been told that they have left behind and that they have a financial problem. Again, they are not burdening the state budget. It's from the chamber money. Article 6, which is also extremely urgent, "Provisions on cumulation of aid for development laws", has to do with de minimis for minor aid, i.e. state, so that when an enterprise takes, for example, interest rate subsidies, takes money, takes development law, is summed up in the new de minimis rule, which is 800,000, and is not stuck to 200,000 where it takes them off the platforms and cannot take the money. So the legislation goes hand in hand with the new de minimis rule adopted by the European Union, Mr President, because of the coronary. These are all the Ministry of Development's amendments and they are all virus-related.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u58	I propose that all the ministers speak of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, the ministers must not leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u60	I'm not going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u61	I say it because they want to leave. That's how it's usually done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u62	We should follow the process better.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u63	I'll just be a minute, Mr. President. The Minister will leave and then I'll have to wonder.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u64	But that's how we'll never end. I propose that Mr Brutsi speak now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u65	Yes, but what if they leave, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u66	All right, Mr. Comrade. Mr Loverdos and Mr Tsakalotos will be speaking about the amendment. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u67	Fortunately we have the opportunity to discuss this in Parliament and see the implementation of the measures. I have followed this programme from the very first moment, which is your responsibility to conclude, on support for business. You had defended your political line and praised it, 25% of the loan to the companies that are good with regard to their debts until they asked for the loan, 80% with the guarantee of the Greek State and 20% with the discretion of the banks. We have told you that it is dangerous, because 20% can overturn 80%, that is, the bank should not give it up to 20% to lose 80% of the guarantees. You said this was the result of the Kingdom Treaty. This is a parliamentary dialogue. We saw it progress, without knowing how it is progressing, this programme, and we asked you, and you replied that we were going for record time, if we arrived at the end of April, to start. We are on 24 April today and the banks have no idea. I speak to you in honor. Those who have asked, because they have heard the programme, get the answer that 'we don't know anything'. You're gonna have to tell us more about the timeline. Because a series of policies - good or bad, I will not judge it now - come and, while they solve one problem, create another. For example, uncovered checks. It is right that your measure and the amendment you have put forward, with our pressure, should be corrected. However, there are enterprises operating, but they are not paid and have based their very existence on this programme. Give us a timetable, Minister, when one can think that it can benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Chaakalot, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u69	Minister, I also have a comment on guarantees, since Mr Lovers said so. It has one particular feature of Greece in the measures it has taken for the guarantees it says up to 80%, but you also have a second filter, in general for bank balances, 40%. In our view, that limits too much. You need to look at it. In the bank portfolio, the problem cannot be more than 40%. So if he gives you 80%, he'll have to give me less than zero to get to the average. You know what I mean. I said it too thick now. The second is that the Development Bank, in our view, is very important. More important than you said, but you see it. It is not possible to amend it. I understand it's urgent. But it's a very important thing. It has many issues of governance, control, how it will finance, what it will finance, how it will finance. In fact, please, I do not say that aggressively, it is not an amendment. You can file a bill, we can talk about it. We're not going to discuss this again too much. Now, however, when we talk about the NPT, about development, I do not think it is right. I think you can bring it in a week. It's not that heavy a schedule. There will also be a relaxation, perhaps - I hear it will be two - three Members - to have a serious debate in order to set it up well. Whether you are fanatical for him or I am fanatical for him, we can have a serious debate about what role he will play in the recovery of the Greek economy, how we will ensure that he plays this role, how we ensure the social, public interest, with what tools, with what leverages. You know it. I would therefore ask you not to go ahead with this amendment and bring it in so that we can discuss it. I cannot react as an economist at the moment, to study whether you have found the right one or I can help it to be better.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u70	Mr. President, may I answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u71	Sure. I'm going to ask you a question, since we're talking about this whole process. When you mean that the Development Bank will borrow directly, without leverage, you understand that if there is no leverage, its loans will be very little. So I hope there's leverage to be able to borrow. Otherwise, the money will be exhausted very quickly and will be over soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. I answer the question in the order I was asked. They look kind of like three. They have some kind of relevance. Let me explain immediately why. We had said, Mr. Loverdo, that we would be ready early May. We're trying to end April. The timetable remains. The phase we are today is: The draft contracts have been exchanged with the banks, the Bank of Greece has adopted its decision, which integrates this programme into zero risk, takes it on and, therefore, helps the banks to move forward with the programme and we are in the process of signing the contracts between the Development Bank and the private banks. Why can't I tell you a date, that is Monday, Tuesday, Thursday? Because that, you know, goes through each bank, from its supervisory board, from its legal counsel, from its board of directors, turns to us to see it again. He's got a paperwork. It can't be done automatically. Our target for early May, which we said at the beginning, remains. We said early May it would work. Now if you go to a bank branch, the manager can really be uninformed. We're not talking to the bank branch. We're talking to the administration of every bank. If I tell you that we've made fifty meetings with teleconference, it won't be an exaggeration. So they can't say now they don't know. Many legal texts have been exchanged between us and between the Bank of Greece and the banks. Now, the Kingdom Agreement sets a limit of 90%, not 80%. We could go up to 90%. That was the ceiling we could reach. I now come to explain 80% and with 40% of Mr Tsakalotou, which is the core of the problem, and I am not saying that it was easy for us. We wanted to combine the guarantee tool with some leverage. I'm coming here now. I'm talking about the world that doesn't understand banking. You, Mr Tsakaloto, obviously understand it. As long as you play in these numbers, if you put 90% and you don't have 40%, the leverage is 1.5%. If you put 50% and put zero, the leverage is 5% and so on. We have come, after negotiations with the banks, to those percentages that have taken us out of a leverage of 3.5% to say that the 2 billion that we have given a guarantee will be enough to provide loans of up to 7 billion and something. That was the whole conversation about 40%. 40%, for the world to understand what it is, is that in the whole, when the world starts not paying its loans, banks cannot register losses, we cannot pay more than 40% of the loans that will be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u73	But it's restraining.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u74	It's restraining. Why is that restrictive? Because getting into it increases the leverage of loans. I have said from the first moment, however, to reply again to Mr Loverdos in the first. We've planned this tool. And I make it clear and say it publicly from the Stepping of the House that we will monitor the implementation of the day - day after day, Mr President, if the banks grant loans. The banks today need to understand that they are working in an extremely different environment. Mrs Lagard, of the European Central Bank, said to all European banks that it is not time for them to apply strict banking criteria, but it is time for them to give money to businesses. We will be on top and if we see that for whatever reason business troubles and do not take the loan, as you said it might happen, in one bank, in the two banks, in the four banks, here we will be in order to intervene immediately and crucially, if that happens. For the time being, it seems that the agreement with the banks is easy to give these loans. They won't be given hard.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u75	Will you bring a law on this?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u76	We don't have to bring a law about it. It is a contract of the Development Bank with the banks, with the guarantee of the Bank of Greece. There's no need for any more law on this. I'm coming now to Mr. Chakaloto. The labelling is correct. Why with amendment to the Development Bank? Because everything has to be done too fast. But my Undersecretary, you know, often speaks with Mr Drasakis - because Mr Drasakis had built the Development Bank and I do not want to fight other people's jobs - and let us know how the timetable goes, etc. The timetable we have set must be speeded up now. It cannot be speeded up, because the jobs we have to do are far more than those we had budgeted. But, Mr President, we should organise a debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs - I am willing with my colleagues, and for the next week - and we should have a debate which I would find very useful at this stage: only the Development Bank and its use under these circumstances. And I am not hiding you, to come to the part of the loan, that on the part of particularly direct lending, if necessary - because this is something that will be discussed between us, the institutions and the Bank of Greece, not on our own - I would prefer it to precede the House a debate on where we will need and then go and do such lending, just to be clear about what we are doing. But now, in the crisis, there are some cases, Mr Colleague, where the purely bank lending criteria and time and how we might not be enough for what we want to do. So we have to have the possibility. That's what we're saying. We don't say we do it. We say we have the possibility. And if we see what we need to do, we need to talk about it here and then we need to decide whether we need to do it. But we cannot afford to. However, I repeat, because the Development Bank, as things have come, will certainly play a much greater role from now on, because it is no other way - this will be the main vehicle for liquidity in business - such a thorough discussion would be necessary. Now, as far as the amendment is concerned, we must bring in staff, Mr Colleague, so that we can do our job. If we go now to scouting in the private sector - with the law, 85% should be from the private sector - we can't even scouting in these circumstances. We can't wait. So I think you should support it. We will not make decisions without the House being informed. I'm committed to this. To have a very thorough debate in this House. I too, despite the reputation that follows me, if it makes sense for the Opposition proposals, I have no reason to adopt them. I have no reason to.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u77	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u78	Say a word about the bill, about the microcredits.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u79	It's the bill ready, and we'll bring it. This will come under the normal parliamentary procedure. It will not come as an amendment. Next week he'll be here. It's ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u80	Minister, there are issues, but now is not the time to discuss them. And I mean for the Development Bank.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u81	However, all the amendments are on pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u82	Minister, thank you. Mr Augias has the floor for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has caused great disruption throughout society and as it was next and in sport. The sports family of our country for the first time united, coordinated, is also trying to contribute in its own way to this great effort that the entire Greek citizens are making. Today, from this Step, I am given the opportunity to say a great "thank you" to all the members of our country's sports family, to all the athletes, the leading athletes, our Olympians, all those who from the first day have responded to our call and have contributed, in their own way, to the effort to strengthen the message "We live at home, We eat at home, we eat healthy," and in the message that we contribute to the effort made by the National Blood Center for a concentration of blood bottles. That is why and their involvement, the way in which this whole effort is supported, I would say - at least touching and they deserve a great 'bravo', a great 'thank you' from all of us. At the same time, however, they have also given another dimension to this effort made by the Government and the Ministry of Health, in particular, by offering their personal objects, remembrances from large events, from peak moments along the way, where money is collected through auctions, which go directly to the special account of the Ministry of Health. Thus, they state - and with this behaviour - that sport has values, has goods that emerge through this crisis. It is the value of solidarity, it is the value of participation, of support. Society's not alone. He has the sports family, which also supports that great effort that makes all Greek citizens. I am here, however, today to defend two amendments, which are directly linked to the pandemic. The first concerns the transition of the National Doping Combat Council. We have a commitment to WADA, where we have been absolutely consistent since the time we took it, to the operation of the EEC-EFTA by the USSR. This provision creates the conditions, the interim stage in substance, for the EEC to be transferred and operated. It takes about a semester until the new organization works. So, in order to be consistent with our obligations towards WADA, I have tabled this amendment, which, of course, is directly linked to the pandemic, as was, at least, formulated in the teleconferences we have with the top WADA executives. We need to move on quickly. That is something we are doing. And, of course, we want to be absolutely consistent as a country towards an agency, which in the past showed us a yellow and later red card. We'll come back. At all levels we will be consistent and above all right with our athletes. The second relates to a provision which allows for the amendment of regulations and notices of sporting events with immediate effect. In other words, every federation, every body responsible for organising sports events, championships, will now be able to take into account all the data that are formed in an international, European, but also national level by sport, but always taking into account the mandates, directions and advice of experts. So far, we have heard the experts in our country, and we have not lost. This, at least, is what the top executives of sports federations and events do. That is why, through this provision, we give them the opportunity to move forward, taking into account all the data they know best, so that they can either break championships or transfer their dates. This provision allows decisions to be taken in the institutions by a qualified majority of 3/4 members. We are sure that this solves their hands. We've done quite a fermentation with everyone, with the entire sports family. Indeed, yesterday I had a very interesting teleconferencing conference with the Hellenic Olympic Committee and with all the members of the Olympic Federation. They want it, they want it, because in this way - as I have said before - their hands are resolved to make decisions and, above all, to support sports which, admittedly, have suffered a great deal of damage. These and I am at your disposal for any questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u86	Since, Mr Augias, I am following your second point of your amendment - I am following it as a politician, I am following it as a fan - I would like to ask you why this amendment that regulates major and minority issues is needed. What for? The rules for running championships, professional or amateur, are defined by federations, not by the state. They have their statutes and they make their decisions. What is it that requires the legislator to do this arrangement? That's the first. Secondly, I have read with enthusiasm that I come from a country where the logic of science prevailed. I am Greek, I live in a country, I am a politician of a country whose logic of science prevailed and the disciplined will of the citizens, along with the proper functioning of government, of counter-population, of science, of social groups, of citizens, has brought the good effect. However, since other countries are also prosperous and have peoples who have given at this stage of pandemic, I note that their federations are deciding to start the championships. Some. Not everything. Some. The Germans are starting at May 9, the Bundesliga, for example. However, these are not decided by the governments. Science speaks, gives coordinates, governments decide general measures in the field of sport, federations make decisions. I conclude with the following: Why law? And, secondly, - if you have anything to tell us from the confederations you have made with the federations - when can Greek and Greek wait for the start of some sports activities?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Aygeakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u88	Dear Mr. Loverdos, I am glad that you are indeed a man involved in sport. We are doing nothing more than strengthening the initiatives and the possibility of sports federations and lings to take decisions, legally no longer, to adjust the programme. We don't do anything different. We're not interfering. It is simply by way of this amendment that they are now legitimate to change the programme, either in the form of a break or in the form of an extension or transfer of the Championship's integration programme. We don't do anything different. We're not interfering with their schedule. It would be our fault. That is why the framework is being drawn up so that they, with their organs, decide how they want to move. That's the first. Secondly, I would like to convey this to you, because you have also referred to what other European countries do. Two days ago, all the ministers of the European Union - Sports, always - had an informal teleconferencing conference on how they dealt with the issue of the coronary and about how sports players, their athletes in their countries have moved this whole period. I inform you that we are very far ahead as a country. It is therefore confirmed that Greece is taking the lead. Greece at the moment is no coincidence that at all levels it is an example to be imitated. And in sport, however, I would like to inform you that we are very ahead, especially on issues of supply, on matters of participation, on matters of solidarity. So I answer and return to your first question: what we are doing strengthens, gives the right legally now - because that was not possible, because the period was complete - to reorder their programme either by either stopping or transferring the programme of events a few months later, which will, of course, allow the scientific community of our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, please, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u90	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u91	Some questions from us, Mr. Ausgeakis. In any case, would the federations before you voted on this amendment today not be able to decide on the resumption of the championships?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u92	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u93	You couldn't say. Is the decision to relaunch the championships in the federations, state and scientists, or is it in cooperation? And I also want you to tell us - if you have been informed - when the championship will start. Because I didn't hear you answer. In other words, the Germans say they will start on 9 May. When will it start with us and what will happen? Because things sound like that. They say - let's say - that the championship will be interrupted and the score will remain as it stands. Are the racing going on? Are there going to be some kind of racing? Are they gonna get locked up in the doors? Are we gonna have a ball in June? Do you always cooperate with the feds, with the organizing authority? Does science have to help that, too? It's important that people hear it after a long time to see you and you're here, give some answers today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u94	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u95	I reply very specifically to my colleague. Law2725 does not allow for a change in the season mediation program. So, Mr. Loverdos, if we don't get through this provision, they can't change schedule. They're staying on their feet. With this provision they are given the opportunity to transfer their programme later, always consulting specialist scientists or interrupting the championship, taking into account all the data, such as sponsorship programmes, any other contracts they have, so that we are not the ones, should not be the state that decides, of course not having the knowledge of a federation, an organiser. In another sport is the liga and in another one is the sports federation. And this provision is horizontal and concerns all federations that have organized, much more in team sports or professional sports such as football, basketball or volleyball. But with this provision, we are making it easier. We resolve their hands more legally can do what they know better, always - I will not stop saying it - taking into account the experts' advice, which we have followed up so far and have not lost. And yesterday - I say this for the second time - at the teleconference we had with the Olympic Committee and with the presence of all the Olympic sports federations, they accept it and they expect it. Because it's something that serves them and solves their hands.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u96	The second question, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u97	Please, he won't tell you who's gonna get the championship and be sad after that!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u98	When will it begin, I asked, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u99	Mr Brutsi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the fourth act of legislation which we are debating today in the House and we are ratifying, in an environment that is unprecedented, unprecedented. I would like to say to you because I have been put on several occasions to questions of time-consuming nature, but also to questions relating to work and social policy during this period, that no one can say that he is absolutely satisfied with the actions we have taken. Compared with the rest of Europe, however, we have the highest and best performances. Because we are a country that has moved quickly, with reflexes and sensitivity. The good of health was the sovereign for the Prime Minister and the government as a whole and its safeguarding and safeguarding it. And we did it. With regard to social policy and the protection of workers, the unemployed and people in need, not only now but also before, this issue has become a priority for our Government, and here we can say that our performance is particularly high. We have covered thousands and millions - at the end of the record - our weak fellow citizens, unemployed, long-term unemployed, workers. So this amendment, which today is to be voted on through the legislative act, includes the extension of the unemployment benefit. A unemployment benefit that we extended for the first three months of 2020 by two months and now extends for another month, for April. To those who have a regular unemployment benefit ends at the end of April, we are still giving them two months' extension to the ordinary unemployment benefit. At the same time there are some legislative improvements - which have the nature of an amendment - to support free professionals and self-employed workers in respect of their insurance contributions, because, with the changes we are doing now, it is clear that all these categories which will also be placed on the platform of six hundred thousand individual enterprises, social enterprises, covetous, heterogeneous companies, all legal forms, have a support for insurance contributions, because the government has decided to take over both wage and non-wage costs to give oxygen to businesses. Because above all - and this is what we have moved to all legislative acts - and a common denominator of all our policies was the safeguard clause for jobs. So this is the amendment that we are introducing today to the vote on the legislative text.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u102	For Mr. Brutsi? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, this parliamentary procedure is intended to ask some questions on the occasion of the fact that they are a number of ministers here today and we will be able to get some answers. I put some questions to Mr Augiakis, he did not answer and he ran away. Unless Mr Gerapetritis responds to us, he generally replaces him in sports in the last few months. If Mr Gerapetititi is to answer, we should ask the questions of all the Ministers to Mr Gerapetiti. Otherwise we should know that we ask each minister separately.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u104	Wait a minute, 'cause this is about me. It had been a deal before...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, I raised questions. I didn't get an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u106	Let me tell you a little bit. A moment ago we had a debate in plenary and I asked the ministers to speak first and then ask us to ask all the questions. There was also the presence of a representative of your party. It was decided by a majority that every minister would like to hear the questions and leave. I cannot go into the procedure as to whether or not Mr Aygeakis replied. It was just our deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u107	I do not disagree at all, Mr President, nor do I ask you to reply. We just need people to hear that here we ask things and we don't get any answers. That's what I said. I'm not asking you to answer. Also, for Mr Brutsis who has brought this amendment, I repeat, taking advantage of the parliamentary debate and because the House is no longer working at the pace it has been working under normal conditions, we have this possibility of a number of ministers being present. I feel the need, therefore, to represent my party at the moment, to ask Mr Brutsi after what has happened in the last few days, if he feels in the atmosphere a sense of a scandal with the voucher theme - it is an opportunity to answer us today that we are here - and if he feels the need to tell the Greek people that it was a huge mistake or an abstraction. What was it? I wait very eagerly to hear, because this scandal smell really in the atmosphere and with masks and without masks is very intense.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u108	Mr Brutsi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, I would simply say to my colleague, who wants to participate in the parliamentary procedure, that he is present in the parliamentary procedure. Because yesterday I gave full answers to all the issues relating to topical and urgent subjects. The positions are understandable. I explained everything. And all that remains today is to get answers from another side of the House. And forty-eight hours, there have been no responses to the management of hundreds of millions of projects involving the SYRIZA government, surname ministers such as Ahchioglou, Haritsis, Antonopoulou, Skourletis. All those who gave the NSRF programmes? What CEC did they give it to if they gave it to? I set out a whole table yesterday - indicative, because there are more - with more than 250 million. That's what I didn't get an answer to. And the KEKs were the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u110	Thank you. Mr. Tsiaras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, Christ Anestis! I would like to wish you many years! I am before the National Representation to support the two amendments concerning the Ministry of Justice. The first provision therefore establishes a simplified procedure for consensual registration, withdrawal and elimination of impurity for mortgages. And this is because due to the exceptional needs of the coronary pandemic, we must avoid the adverse consequences of the confrontation of many people, especially in enclosed areas, since of course they are permitted by a joint ministerial decision - which is to come in the next few days - to deal with these cases. You realise that the purpose is obvious, that the parties should not be conspired to the audience and that the procedures of the pre-remarks which are necessary - as we all understand, and as we all agree - for the relaunch of the economy. In the second proposed regulation, legal interruptions are limited by one month so that there is the possibility of hearing as much as possible from all the courts in the country as possible cases which have been void during the suspension of the operation of the courts and the prosecutors throughout the territory and thus to contribute to the decommissioning of the already great judicial material and speeding up the time for the administration of justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u114	Minister, the opening of the courts is one of the key issues for the rest of the economy. So, always with the logic of disciplined will and the sovereignty of the logic of science, we have watched the closure of the courts - the right decision - and we are now monitoring the timetable for their start-up. We're positive. However, we have a very great concern about the auctioning of first home. And Mr Katrinis and I and the President of the Change Movement, and all Members of Parliament have repeatedly raised this issue. Since you are here today and you are giving the timeframe, can you tell us whether these cases of this particular subject, of such a family critical at this stage, but without the pandemic, have you thought somehow to suspend them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u115	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u116	Despite the fact that this is not the subject of the amendments under discussion, Mr Loverdos, I think this is a debate that we have had in the past after your own question. You have now asked me about the timeline for conspiracy. Is that right? Is that what you're asking me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u117	I repeat the reopening of the courts because it is a very serious reopening of the economy. I have been put here on several occasions for pacifistry, mortgages, pawnings, and so on. But are we saying: is it now time to start first home auctions? We are asking whether the reopening of the Courts is also a mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u118	Good, thank you very much. I didn't hear your question very well. Because there was an issue between us that we had discussed in the past and I thought you had brought it back. But you are giving me the opportunity to clarify something that I think from the very reality that exists and from the CFDs that have so far been given the answer and leave no doubt. There is no question of auctioning with the opening of the mortgages, and we must all understand it and leave this approach, which, on the one hand, shows that we do not understand what the reality is - and on the other hand, it shows that there is a possible political targeting on an issue that is absolutely no field for anyone to move. In other words, the mortgages open up because we really need to take the first step of relaunching the economy. This, of course, also attracts some basic functions of the peace courts and the first instances. We are thus trying to limit, taking appropriate measures, the presence of many people there. There is no question of opening auctions because it is quite simply the protection of first home you know that there is until 30 April. The Greek Government is in a very tough negotiation with the institutions to extend this time. Let me remind you that the previous government is the one that had promised that protection of the first residence expired on 31-12-2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u119	No, we never made a commitment to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u120	Now don't say that, Mr. Chakaloto. Please. We found them all ready from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u121	Don't lie. These are written. We are bound to bring in a new framework. You promised...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u122	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u123	These are undeniable facts. You know that very well. I understand that invoking your facts is annoying. I understand that, I get it, it's human. And I'd be disturbed if I were in your position. But the real facts cannot be called into question. You were committed to ending the protection of the first residence on 31-12-2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u124	No, you're lying to Parliament and that's not right. Not lying when the texts are there. Another new framework and a new lift.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u125	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u126	We have received an extension to this commitment and we are in a tough negotiation to get a further extension due to the specific conditions of the coronary. Now I realize you're going to the other side, you're going to use any other arguments. It's the policy of your political space. I don't have to say anything else, we don't talk about it. But I answer Mr. Loverdos to make it clear. Right now, all the enforcement procedures are suspended, Mr. Loverdos. That is what I tell you in advance that it will continue to exist, it will continue this reality and with the new JAPD that we are going to issue now. So this kind of issue of auctions does not exist, to be clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u127	How far back will it go?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u128	This will be one of the last procedures to return to the steps that we need to do for the effective overall reopening of justice. It's one of the last steps. In other words, sooner, the proceedings will obviously have to be in place without the parties, both at the court and at the Marios Ice. The next step will be the full reintroduction of interim measures. Then, if necessary, we will put this specific step in place and at the end all criminal proceedings will be opened. You realise that we still have time in front of us at the rate in the joint ministerial decisions. However, there is also the development of the government's negotiation with the institutions in relation to the extension of the protection of the first home. So this kind of issue - and we say it clearly, emphatically and in the clearest way from the Step of the Greek Parliament - does not exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u129	To conclude with Mr Contozamanis, who wants to make a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, I want the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Chakaloto, the president of your party is here to speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u132	It's important. I'll talk for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u133	Let me give you the floor why everyone has spoken. How can I stop you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u134	Mr Chiara, because you are not used to us like that, there are texts. I would like you to read the texts of the Commission and of all the institutions which were really under pressure from us to commit to no extension. We did not do it and all we had to do was bring in a new framework that we would see, we would try to get it wide. The institutions would like to be closer. That is another thing that we committed to lifting. And because you are an honest man, I would ask you to read the texts of the Commission and the institutions on this matter and apologize to us. It is not right for the Greek Parliament to say inaccurate and say things that can be proved in a very easy way. I have not exceeded the minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u135	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u137	Again I take the floor because I have a question - because Mr Tsipras' speech will follow from what I see, which has come - to Mr Tsiaras and Mr Tsakalotos and to everyone. I'm gonna really sit down with interest to hear what they're gonna say. Are we out of the memos, yes or no? You said, Mr. Chiara, that you have a tough deal with the institutions to transfer the auctioning of the first place. What are the institutions doing in our head when we've been out of the memoirs? I don't understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Tsiaras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u139	I will reply very soon to Mr Chakaloto and then to you. We, when we were in the position of negotiating with the institutions, found a specific date, Mr Tsakaloto, 31-12-2019. Wasn't that a commitment from the previous government? So what are you saying to me now, please very much that you would bring in a new framework?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u140	I told you about a new framework, bring in a new framework. Another new framework and a new lift.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u141	This is a very easy, I repeat, escaping from your side to interpret it as you wish. I imagine that, in political controversy, if you like, there may be such interpretations. The reality, however, is one: there was a certain date of expiration of first home protection. That's where nobody lives. You should know, and I address you, Mr Heta, that there are memorial commitments from the Greek Governments. Because that is not a reality that we have actually created in the past. It was created by the previous government. We believe that governments have all the time, that they must be consistent with the commitments made by the country and we do nothing more than, if you want, the tone or the effort to the highest possible extent to ensure our national interests and to create the best conditions for Greek society.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Contozamanis, you have the floor for a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say first of all that we accept the ministerial amendments by a general and specific number respectively 267/37, 274/44, 275/45, 276/46, 277/47 and 278/48. I should also like to present to the House a legislative improvement in the draft law. In paragraph 2 of Article 2 of the Nov. The words 'taken by decision' are added to the words 'taken by a majority of three quarters (3/4) of all members'. Finally, the words 'and other provisions' are added at the end of the title of the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u144	The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and Chief of Staff, Mr. Tsipras, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. I must say that it is a little strange to speak behind windows, as if they were locked in a cage, but even so, I believe that the parliamentary procedure must be carried out. It's our obligation to do it. The pandemic crisis is the fact that it forced us all to voluntarily suspend part of our individual freedoms, leave our jobs, stay in our homes in order to limit the transmission of the virus. That was our social responsibility, it is the social responsibility, individual and collective responsibility of the citizens who have dealt with the best - I believe - in a strong way in this challenge. And it forced us, of course, to limit the presence of Members during Parliament's meetings and, of course, to take precautionary measures correctly. And to some extent all the parties have given our consent so that the urgent pandemic issues can be dealt with under procedures that our Constitution provides for in such cases. I fear, however, that on the part of the government, this consent, this good will of counter-population to put all together in this collective struggle, in order to limit the spread of the disease, is best taken as a weakness, in the worst case, as an opportunity for legislative intervention without dialogue and without accountability, as an opportunity to award projects without competitions, as an opportunity for jobs, jobs or even greater jobs of millions by dismantling public money into 'days'. And I think you're making a very big mistake, if you think you can take advantage of this good mood, this intention of everyone, I believe, of the Anti-Population parties to put back against the public risk of pandemic, and understand it as weakness or even worse as a white cheque, to legislate, decide and not to account to anyone. And you're making a big mistake, if you think that the almost total absence of criticism of the government of large information groups will ultimately constitute an effective protection shield. This post-democratic or - one would say - a post-democratic treaty of the absolute desirability of any criticism, any opposition voice in recent months, as you have seen in the last few days, in the days of Easter and immediately thereafter, it was not enough, to hide, to cover up a top scandal of serving friendly business interests with public money, but also, perhaps, intriguing - that of the social group, that of the social category, in whose name Mr Mitsotakis has set up his opposition rhetoric over the past few years. Because the most characteristic representatives of the so-called middle-class are scientists, the self-employed, the free-traders, whom you have been brutally insulting with this teletraining - fiasco, which you have had to withdraw at the expense of the generalised outcry and at the expense of the possibility that is now available - regardless of the control of information by large groups - the events are being broadcast at high speed thanks to social media. So when someone suffers a huge injustice and a humiliation, then he has the possibility simply in one move, with a picture of his mobile phone making this fact in the public sphere, which, in the end, no one can hide. And you have been forced to withdraw this initiative, which is inappropriate and inappropriate. So neither did the media shield nor the Lebanese of some information broadcasts save you. Not only is this line of invisible editor, one would say, in the bulletins - we are not talking about the subject, no one is talking about the subject - it was not enough to keep the matter hidden, but it did you a lot more damage. Because the arrogance of your officials until the last minute, until the day before yesterday, to lie to the Greek people and to the people who were watching, the arrogance of the ministers to parade themselves into television broadcasts as a roaming triumph and with a lot of courage to support this great voucher predator has unorthodoxly exposed you as a government but also the systemic journalistic establishment that supports you and has been forced to say: 'What good is this program!' and ‘How is it possible for the Kojam Chief of Representation to deal with and ask a question on this matter to the Prime Minister in the middle of a pandemic’. That was what they said this morning and the same night people themselves would go out on the windows and say: "What good Mr. Mitsotakis is that this lousy program took it back!" Dog Riddle became you and them! But what exactly did Mr. Mitsotakis get back? And he did not come to the question I put to him today at the Prime Minister's time. He obviously didn't come because he doesn't have what to say. What exactly did he get back? What exactly canceled? Who's ultimately responsible for this big scam he tried to set up? And, of course, he didn't come today, not after everything that happened. The question I put to her on Tuesday morning and for twenty-four hours, while she knew my question, she continued to instruct his Minister and the government officials to parade television and radio receivers and falsely defend the usefulness of this programme. Why has it not reacted for almost a month, when we are shouting with statements and questions and we and the scientific bodies that, because of the pandemic, there is no need for training programmes to disburse this money from the NRP, and that this money can be given without intermediaries? Why has it not reacted when we say that it is incomprehensible for the EUR 600 for each beneficiary to get four hundred seventy-seven? Why, when the pan-Hellenic, thanks to the reaction and indignation of scientists, learned through social media the fraud of false training, with the "margarita" of translation becoming viral, did Mr Mitsotakis not react? Why didn't he sweat his ear then? He didn't know? He didn't understand? Didn't he in the final state, where all he's gathered in the Maximos Mansion, and everything goes through control, did he, did he not get it? Didn't he see our reactions? Didn't he get a hamburger? He left it to Mr. Brutsi? Is that Mr. Brutsi's responsibility? I would really like to see Mr Brutsis answering one question, does he not have to tell us much: He set this story up by himself? Mr. Mitsotakis and the Maximos Mansion have been informed about these programmes, yes or no? That'll answer us. I don't want anything else to answer. If he does not give any answer to this critical question, I mean. It is 90 million more than the public fund, for no reason, because because of the coronary, as I have explained, these European funds can be used for direct support for self-employed people, without the need to mediate training. This is the Commission's document on this subject. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Mr Brutsis did not know this, but also the other government officials, when after, of course, the issue was raised because of the "margarita" training programmes was justified and he went out and said: "We couldn't get the money otherwise, we had to train." Didn't he know? Obviously, he knew. He was lying to the Greek people. Didn't Mr. Mitsotakis know about that? Didn't he listen to his minister every day on the channels lying? So we have more than 90 million more, for no reason, from the Treasury. Less money to professionals to get more of the middlemen. To give a size class, if they were to get 600 euros directly, the Treasury would leave 110 million. If 800 euros were taken, they would leave the public fund 144 million. Now that they took via voucher, 193 million euros left the public funds. In other words, they went almost 85 million to the middlemen. Of these, the lion's share of five to six training centres, whose platforms were approved and on these platforms all the other training centres were to be hung up, which were supposed to give the beneficiaries a learning process. How much, really, would these six privileged training centres, which would rent their platforms out of these 85 million euros, would they? It's a question. Some are talking about 35 million. A clear answer has not been given to date, but at some point you must give. And the climax of fraud, the invitation to training centers comes out, stays open for three days and, o of the miracle, within three days of the five - six specific training centres that have the platforms provide training material for ten whole thousands of pages. Will anyone really explain how these specific centres have been able to prepare tens of thousands of pages? It is not possible to believe that this was done without prior consultation. More importantly, this educational material with margaritas was approved by the Ministry of Labour and the Minister and signed by Mr Brutsis. And it's not just inconvenience. What exactly do scientists learn from these programs? Lawyers are invited to learn how to file their files and engineers, who may also have one and two degrees, are invited to learn how to browse their computers. Self-determination for the people who were in need and actually applied. And the question is: But are you okay to be embarrassed a little bit about this story? Don't you feel the need to apologize, say an apology to these people? To name some of your best friends, do you think you have the right to humiliate the country's scientific world? But you know what? Then he didn't sweat Mr. Mitsotakis' ear. Do you know when he founded his ear and was forced to take it back and, of course, expose the ministers who went out to the channels and journalists? As soon as he saw the light of publicity from journalistic investigations that counsellors and government friends are involved in these few training centres, which seem to have taken the share of this funding. Only then, when these came out in the light of publicity, in forms online, which you had taken care of all the previous period - but you did not - so that it would not be in life. Because the Prime Minister himself calls one by one, I am learning, some of the great owners who give advertising to the media, so that they don't give advertising, because he doesn't want any sign of criticism. This, of course, is not a democracy. This is 'orbanisation' of political life. You're annoyed by criticism. These instruments, however, made a news which will be investigated to the end, you do not want, because at the time you took it back, that the original legal counsellor of the General Secretariat, Ms. Strinakis, is the one behind this case. And the question is: Who placed it there in October? Mr. Brutsis or the Maximos Mansion? It's a crucial issue. I hope that Mr Mitsotakis will respond at some point because he may have decided to escape from the time of the Prime Minister, but we will not let her go through this and at some point he will give answers, especially if Mr Brutsis has no courage today to answer the question that I ask him, whether it was his inspiration and his design or whether he was together with Mr. Maximos and the Prime Minister. If he does not respond, it obviously means that you made them together and then Mr Mitsotakis will have to give the answer. And the answer, in order to be convincing to the crucial question, can be given in a way: by the expulsion of Mr Brutsis from the ministerial office. Anything else will be proof - not a sign, but a proof of co-responsibility. Mr President, I would like to say a few words on the question of the functioning of Parliament. For how long, ladies and gentlemen, will this story continue through legislative acts, through MDGs? The citizens are quarantined, of course, and it will probably be longer. But democracy cannot be in quarantine indefinitely. It is, I believe, the least shameful, when the people show us the will and the discipline they need to overcome the pandemic, at a time when the anti-population is supporting decisions following the scientists' suggestions, some to find an opportunity for corruption and not to have the courage, in the name of this emergency, to account at least here to the temple of democracy, even with these restrictive measures, with the platiglas and the dilute presence of the MPs, but to be accountable. Since February, nine legislative acts have been adopted. And they include not only the emergency measures to deal with the health crisis, but also the government's economic planning. In this way, you are causing post-scheduled debates, avoid having a timely debate in this House, so that you do not look at the proposals of counter-population in support of society and do not subject you to effective parliamentary control. That's what's happening. I am learning that you are deciding - or that is what the media at least say - I do not know if this is the case with the scientists' suggestion, it is something that remains to be investigated, we have not been told by public scientists but - that the first thing that will work in the country will be the courts and the mortgages. What's this for first? So important is this job, that the courts have to open first? Why don't you open the barbershops first, let's go get tired already? I see that most people in the room need haircuts, except for some who have the ability to wear a machine. So why are you doing this? Some say that you do this because, as a matter of priority, you have to meet the demands of banks and funds for pre-notifications and for seizures. Is it more important that the needs of banks and funds from the functioning of democracy and, therefore, that you open the courts to function and to do the work of the banks, and here, will you continue to legislate by means of legislative acts and, of course, that you do not come to parliamentary control, that Mr Mitsotakis does not come to Prime Minister's time and that he is constantly addressed only with lectures to the Greek people as if he were emperor and that he would bring in other ministers to answer the Chief of Resistance, to the leaders of the parties, as if he were the "anti-response"? I don't know how to change our culture. So we do not want and will not allow this story to continue. And it can't go on for long. We have tabled the proposal to extend the protection of first residence. You voted against it. We're giving it to you today. Again, you didn't approve of her. Why? You're telling us there was a date beforehand. But, of course, there was a date that stated that by then another framework had to have been found, but that was a framework - protection of the first residence. He didn't say there would be anything. Our obligation to memorialize - and a Member rightly wondered - is specific. It does not say that there will be no protection of the first residence after 31 April. But that date has arrived and I see that neither is sweating your ears on this matter. All of this - you know - these are crucial issues. If you think you will be able to overcome it, using the justification for the pandemic crisis and the coronary and the shield you have from some media, you are wrong. Because these issues are not matters for the opposition parties and it is not a debate that can be held in the cafes alone and in the halls of this House. It is about a large majority of citizens. And they will, not SYRIZA Members. They will, the citizens, as scientists raised the vouchers' issue on their back. So is this. It will come from social if you leave without protection the first residence, while you tell people to stay in their homes to protect themselves from the virus. We will therefore re-submit the question to the Prime Minister to come next Friday. Mr Gerapititi - because I know that it is possible for you to answer - I have nothing personal to do with you, I barely, you are a sympathetic person. But we should have some coffee outside if you're likeable. Here, the Prime Minister will be answering the Chief of Officerial Response and the Chiefs of the other parties, not the Prime Minister instead. I don't know if he's appointed you instead. So I say that I will re-submit the question, obviously with up-to-date questions about next Friday. Obviously, we will be tabling a proposal for a preliminary debate in the next few days on the crucial big economic issue. Because obviously we all know that what comes will be difficult anyway. With your policy and your inertia, however, it will not just be difficult. It will be painful, not only because you have refused even part of our proposals to adopt, the 'We are standing' programme, not only because you have not taken measures horizontally and forwardly, to keep the demand and supply alive and to allow businesses to stay out of the carpet, but now they are able to support their workers, but now, from what I am reading, you have decided to close the string. The octakosari - says - will give it to those businesses that remain closed. Those who open up, how can they respond? And if any of those who open up have many workers and even one case arises - because the virus will not disappear - what will happen? We're going to have to get these businesses shut down again. How will they be supported? How will they pay September when the time comes? Because their obligations were suspended. Their obligations have not been abolished. But what do you do now? In fact, you now, instead of going ahead with this forward support to make use of this liquidity reserve that is a reserve of our good management, you come and stay inactive. In the end, this will gradually begin to be wasted unnecessarily in order to deal with non-textile, inflexible costs of the current months. And we will come to a point, if you continue, in August, to be humiliated and cool, which they say, that is, we will also be overdebted as a country and with huge recession and with thousands of paddles and unemployment, but without the so-called pillow, because you will have wasted it without supporting society. These are issues which the Greek people must know and which cannot go through without debate, without dialogue, without the exchange of arguments in the context of democracy. I have heard - and I am closing in in a minute, Mr President - that the Governor of the Bank of Greece came out the day before yesterday and said that the recession in 2020 would be 4%. Yes, sir. I have no reason to question either the validity of scientific research, but neither - if you like - how serious studies Mr Stournaras will have done to make that provision. So Mr Stournaras says that in 2020 we will have a recession of 4%. Any percentage of more than 4% is recorded at the end of 2020, since Mr Stournaras is an approved economist, whom you will keep and where you will, well do, your right is...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u146	He said 4% to 8%.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u147	Let go, 4% said. Any percentage will be above this percentage will be a project of Mrs.Mitsotakis. It'll be your work. And because apparently, champions in the management of the coronary are not, but we're one of the first, it's true. We're not malicious people. We're admitting it. We're not champions. There are other countries with fewer victims. But we're one of the first. But champions in the recession will be all over the Eurozone. As much as we will have a recession from the Eurozone average and as much as Mr Stournara's forecasts will be the work of Mr Mitsotakis and his government. It will be your job to retreat. It will be your job and the austerity, which will come if you do not take the proposals we have tabled in time to support businesses, support workers, support labour and get out of this crisis with the least possible losses. As long as you avoid debate and public confrontation in Parliament and in the public sphere, the Greek people will understand that you have something to hide from it. And don't worry about it, you won't be avoiding it. You'll charge her in full. The question is not to charge the Greek people another crisis that at least part of it could have been avoided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u148	The floor has been requested by Mr Gerapetti, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u149	I should first expect the Chief of Staff to leave because a debate with me is only in the coffee and not in the House. To accept this as a great compliment for democracy, Mr President. So what did we hear? We've heard the Chief of Officer Opposition in an enemy crescendo. "Dogs' resili. Let the buddies get used to it. Mosquito and cool. The Prime Minister gets calls not to be advertised in the media." Lies, lies, lies! That is the qualitative reason for a consistent opposition that puts back on it! What else did we hear? We also heard that what the country is experiencing with the social confrontation of the entire Greek people in compliance with the measures is a product of mass communication, which means exclude the opposition and only accept the government's word. This is the component of success. And indeed, I want to confess here to you, we control both Guardian and 'Bild' and 'New York Times' and 'Washington Times'. We are monitoring all the instruments, ladies and gentlemen, which praise the country for which we should all be proud. It's not government and it's not counterpopulation. The success is of the Greek people, who stood up against this pandemic mainly because it was convinced that this must happen, destroying the stereotype of the Greek who does not comply with the rule. Today, the Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, had contact with the political leaders of six countries in the world, coming from all continents, from Europe, from Oceania, from Asia, from countries that were best performing in the fight against COVID -19 for the exchange of good practice. Seven countries with the best performance. Instead of causing us to rally, it makes us to end up in this type of intolerance that we have heard today. We have heard that we, ladies and gentlemen, are undermining democracy and Parliament. Why? Because we are legislating on legislative acts. He forgot to mention that in addition to these legislative acts, we also had to inform him of more than two hundred joint ministerial decisions up to eight ministers, which were issued in forty-five days to deal with this crisis. And this is a violation of democracy? And since we are talking about legislative acts, I want you to look at them, because I always do so from an academic perversion, what happened to the transformation by legislative acts. When did they come to the House for testimony and ratification? They came on the last day of the constitutional deadline for forty days and voted for three months later on the extreme constitutional limits. What did we do? Today, the fifth legislative act is being discussed and adopted by the total of six adopted. Within a few days of the adoption of these acts, in accordance with Article 44 of the Constitution, the Government brings to Parliament all legislative acts to be discussed and public accountability. This has never happened in Transpoliticism. The legislative acts therefore come before the National Representation in time that had never occurred. Honoured by the middle class, the President, the Chief of Officerial Response. We have heard this, Mr President, today, that we are the enemies of the middle class, the scientists, those who were overtaxed, had contributions that were a global record, and they have come to be deprived of 80% of their income so that the detainees can have whatever stock they are proud of today. He, therefore, lacked all this productive process from the Greek economy, today appears to be an honourer, because the teletraining programme did not work. From all the package of measures, which has to do with the management of the fiscal crisis, from the rescue package of the Greek economy, with measures which have not daring any government worldwide, such as the ban on redundancies - no country has dared to take such a radical measure, a few countries have dared to take horizontal measures, rather than pay recovery measures, which are a measure of social equality - Mr Tsipras is now being called into question for the failure of the teletraining system. Of all this package that came and supported Greek society in the midst of such a health crisis in the world, it stood on it. So let us stand on this, since this is what the Chief of Staff wishes. There was a failure, Mr President, in the system. Why was there a failure of the system? What was the Greek Government's pursuit? The aim was to absorb European resources. The document presented by the Chief of Staff Response, which enabled allowances to be granted to vulnerable categories of scientists without any hereditary status, is a document which was much later than the time when the decision on teletraining was made. The Chief has failed to mention the time when this directive was adopted, the guidelines, on behalf of the European Commission. So it was a teletraining program for scientists. We have indeed seen on the way - and that is what we want to do if we want to give credit to society and I will also credit it to the opposition - after we have checked that it does not respond to the quality that we would like and, of course, to the quality that it responds to the high scientific staff available to the country. And when we saw this, we immediately abolished the programme. But the abolition of this programme is an element of democratic consultation. You know, we don't have our ears closed in society. We hear and can change our minds. Others are those who do not change their minds, do not progress. So we have heard it, we have abolished it, we are restoring the situation, but we are doing something even more important, which, I think, is also worthy of totality for the country. We now state before the National Representation that there will be a comprehensive reform of the framework on which the training is being carried out in Greece, a field in which great objections have been raised and we will see at some point whether these objections have been based. We will reshape the regulatory framework as a whole so that there is genuine dignity and, above all, there is an educational certification of vocational training centres, which does not exist today. So in this sense we undertake to abolish this programme without harming the beneficiaries and, on the other hand, we commit ourselves to the National Representation to bringing in a new framework that is sound, so that training can become a genuine training and lifelong learning vehicle. And because the Chief of Staff of the Opposition has accused us of avoiding - if it were not to be avoided - that instead of a pre-dated order, which the President had previously stated, and which he has restored without comprehending why, given that there is a timely question and finally a question from the Officerial Representation - I can tell you that a debate will be held with the Prime Minister's decision in the House on the whole package on the financial management of the health crisis, including the issues of teletraining, within the framework of Rule 142a of the House's Rules of Procedure, so that the National Representation knows accurately and honestly that it has been held so far in the context of the management of the health and economic crisis, and there it will all be heard as it should be, ladies and gentlemen, for what we have done and have not done. For us democracy is a constant struggle. The accountability, which the Chief of Staff Response has today invoked, we have done it daily by going out to the Greek people with all the information on the health crisis, with all the information on the operational part of this health crisis, but also with complete openness in the measures taken to support the economy and more than a week later, the representatives of the nation will have the opportunity to place themselves on these issues before this House. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u150	Please, Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u151	No, Mr. Chakaloto, that's not possible. There isn't. You have the President of Parliament next door. Please. Mr. Varoufakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u152	I'm a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u153	But you want the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u154	Yes, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u155	Please, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u156	I do not think your decision to answer Mr Gerapetti is correct. I don't think that's right. Mr. Mitsotakis didn't come here. I don't know why. There might be a good reason. But he didn't come. Mr. Tsipras speaks and Mr. Gerapitris answers. So if Mr. Tsipras were here, he would have answered. Isn't that right? So I, as a parliamentary representative, have this position here. I don't think that's right. I think that would have happened if the President of the SYRIZA was here and so there is no difference at all that I am here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u157	Good. Thank you. As you know, the President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Varoufakis, is here, and is before him. Immediately afterwards, you'll talk. Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u158	Explain the rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u159	I've explained. The President of the Parliamentary Group is ahead of us. He's here. Please. Please, Mr Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u160	That is not the case, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u161	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u162	It's not right what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u163	Please. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u164	Let Mr. Tsipras be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when historian of the future looks in the calendar on 24 April 2020, namely today, he will collide with it on 23 April, namely on the day we had last night, the afternoon video conference of the European Council. Together with the Eurogroup of 9 April, these two days, 9 and 23 April, will remain in history as important days, unpleasant days, for the European Union. I would like to mention and use my time today by referring to what happened yesterday, because what was to be done was what Mr Mitsotakis should have asked for on behalf of the Greek people, what it means to our people and what it will mean for the next few years for the winter people of this state of debt, for the people of Europe as a whole. On 9 April in Eurogroup, we actually had the tombstone for the Eurobond. We talked about it last time I was here. What was decided yesterday is important and I think you will agree that the analysis I am going to make to you at the moment does not have any party base, but rather information. What has been agreed is that a recovery fund will be set up after the new major recession, which will be financed not immediately. What will happen is that our Member States, the Member States, will give guarantees to the European Commission so that the European Commission can borrow about 0.6% of the total European income every year for two or three years. What does that mean? Note it, if you want, because there's no newspapers. It means about 100 billion a year for two to three years, say, 250 to 300 billion. That's the amount. I repeat that it is not money, which will be given, as is given to the European Community budget, but it will be guarantees for Brussels to borrow on our behalf. That makes us a total of 250 to 300 billion. It is essentially a trivial amount from a macroeconomic perspective. Mrs Merkel came out yesterday and said - you will hear it - that we are not talking about billions, but trillions. What did he mean by that? Mrs. Merkel never lies, but she always saves the truth. What it meant to mean that these 250-300 billion will then be used, after the European Commission has already borrowed them, to lever them, that is to say, to borrow on these loans. If you remember, this was in 2008 with the collapse of 'LEHMAN BROTHERS' with the CDO-squared, with the CDOs on the block. This is what we are doing as the European Union, ladies and gentlemen. As Europeans, we must be ashamed that this was the big decision yesterday. Now they have announced that a portion of this money will go to reinforcement, a mini-SRF, and another piece will go to loans. You know very well that at Mera25 from the very first moment we are here, especially now that this new turn of our crisis has erupted, we are constantly saying and again that loans to the bankrupt are a gift of present, that they need aid and not borrowing. It was also the criticism of your package, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and of what they announced in the previous Eurogroup, at the previous summits. Mr Mitsotakis yesterday - I read - embraced our view. He said in particular - at least so I read in Kathimerini, which I think is quite close to you - and, quite rightly, he said, if he said so - well, we are glad - that there is no need for loans, that the loans do not help, what is needed is aid. So the question is what percentage of this money, the borrowing, the levers, will go to aid and what percentage will it go to loans. Let me tell you, and I will explain to you why, infinitely, it will be in aid and explain why. I have already explained that these are not money, they are loans, which are then used as a pledge for new loans. Loans must be repaid. So the European Commission is going to take on these loans, which may even be one trillion - I don't think so, because rather like the Junker plan it will eventually be, which was a balloon that blew up very easily, is it? - but it may be 600 billion and 800 billion to be and, 900 billion to be. That money is loans. They must therefore be repaid by the European Commission. Even though they are long-term loans, they will eventually have to be repaid by those who take them either small and medium-sized enterprises or the states. A piece will indeed be in the form of aid. But think about this. Read what they are saying today in the German newspapers, such as 'FAZ', the German ministers. They are talking about a new fund as a mini-SRF, which will be awarded, not entirely depending on the guarantees given by the states. In other words, Greece will get some more money than it has guaranteed. That's true. That's how it's done with the NRP. These are beans counted. We are essentially talking about the definition of macroeconomic neutrality. In any case, as it wraps up this package that they agreed yesterday, it will be budgetaryly insignificant since it is based on loans that the European Commission will receive on the guarantee base of the Member States, which will then lever them. Ladies and gentlemen, why did it happen? The answer is, Mr Stavoura - and I am glad you have come - because on 9 April in the Eurogroup you went into, you have already unleashed the veto and you and other colleagues from southern countries. And you know very well when you go into a Eurogroup here, in reply to me personally, on 9 April, three hours before you go to the Eurogroup, 'I will never be Barofaakis', 'I will never veto you', and you should not even sit at your office and watch it on television and by teleconferencing, with the microphone closed and you and your French, Spanish and Portuguese colleagues. Without a veto on the Eurogroup, it has been demonstrated by Mr Hukstra, your Dutch counterpart, without saying 'no', you are not taking part in the debate. You're just a sad observer. The Eurobond, which you still say you would like - and I am very pleased about that - do not forget what it is. The Eurobond is a debt restructuring tool. It's a tool that carries debt burden from one another. This is the Eurobond and it is therapeutic for Europe as a whole, in so far as it gets debt from the weaker shoulders and carries it to the most powerful shoulders. Because that means that over time the total European debt is shrinking by the transfer of interest rates. That is why you wanted the Eurobond, which is why we proposed it long before you wanted it. To reduce the overall debt, to stabilise monetary union, to transfer weight within the European Union in order to make this decline and to stabilise. This is the Eurobond. Now, why collapsed the front of the nine, ten, eleven? Let me say two reasons, for me. Firstly, you asked for the wrong Eurobond. When you ask for a Eurobond and have the Dutch Minister for Finance, you must be very well prepared to answer the question 'good and who will publish the Eurobond'. You had no answer to that. No serious answer to that. The only serious answer that can be found - you will allow me to tell you - is not what we were listening to, namely to create a SPV, a special vehicle in Luxembourg, such as the European Financial Stability Fund, because you know very well that that fund was financially toxic, was not a mass Eurobond. It was something like a CDO of 'LEHMAN BROTHERS', issued by the countries of the European Union. Only the European Central Bank can issue the Eurobond, because it is the only institution we have. The ESC issues its own bonds, aimed at creating CDOs, once again structured bonds for lending Member States, i.e. transferring debt to the Member State. So not a Eurobond, so no debt transfer from patients to the strongest, from the nations to the European context. The second mistake you have made - and I am not speaking to you in particular - was made by her Spanish counterpart, your Portuguese counterpart, much more so by the Italian Prime Minister - is that you spoke of solidarity, solidarity in the North - South. It's a huge mistake! Here Mr Houkstra, the Dutch Minister for Finance was right to say 'what are you talking about?' No one has a duty due to solidarity to enter debts with the one to whom he wishes to be solidarity! The Dutch Minister for Finance tells you: "Do you want my solidarity? You want my charity? Let me give it to you. I think that as a European I should give you my solidarity. I'll see how much I've got left in my pocket, I'll make an economy. Take it, that's it! I have no obligation to go into debt with you!" When we express our solidarity with someone, we give our help. We don't sign a promise bond in common. It was the wrong argument of solidarity. The only way to address the Dutch Minister for Finance or the German Minister for Finance is on the basis of rationality and his own interests, the interest of his own people. Why, Mr President-in-Office, can you not, on the one hand, rejoice about the surpluses which you have in both finance and trade, which you would not have had if you had no deficit countries within the European Union within the monetary union? If you did not have Greece, Italy and Spain to be deficits within the euro and keep the euro down and you only had one euro in the north, north and east, its value would be 30% to 40% higher, you would have lost your markets in China, you would not have had the trade surpluses that you now enjoy! "So your money is not your money. It's European money. You wouldn't have such a low public debt." you should have said, Mr. Stakoura, to the Minister of Finance of the Netherlands, not to talk to him about solidarity and ask for charity on the part of the South. You tell him that his debt would not have been if Greece had not been at the moment, in the last ten years, endured the millions. Did you notice what Germany's Minister for Foreign Affairs said about the troika? He talked about "fighting tools". When I was a minister and I was talking, I said it more politely. I had spoken of fiscal virtual drowning. I used the terminology of the CIA, the waterboarding. And then everyone - and you - had fallen on me to eat me, because I had told the truth. Now the German Foreign Minister has said so. I'm closing the parentheses. So you had to tell the Minister of Finance of the Netherlands and Germany: "Listen. Your debt is low because all these years you have had zero or negative interest rates, which you had because of the austerity in Greece, which went to the rest of Europe after, we had a material process and Mario Draghi was forced because we had the existing procedure because of the foolish and irrational troika policy in countries like Greece, you, the mountain of your debt, every year to be reduced because of the negative interest rates. So both your budgetary surpluses and your trade surpluses, Mrs. of the Netherlands, Mr. Austria, Germany, are largely due to the fact that our own countries are deficits and are suffering. So it can't be yours and yours." And immediately afterwards, add: 'Without Eurobond, we do not get out of here. Without a Eurobond that rationally restructures the debt of the whole of Europe, we are not leaving here!" Veto! At the time, Mr Staikoura, you left here having unleashed the veto and went there - and of course you were an observer without the veto - and you agreed to bury the Eurobond and instead of the Eurobond having loans from the ESCN, you condemned your Government in the fifth tougher memorandum. Ladies and gentlemen, you have allowed this crisis to go lost, and I say this with heartache not only for Greece but for Europe as a whole. We had an excellent opportunity as Europeans to move towards federalism. Why don't we do it now that we have this symmetrical threat, that we see the dissolution before the doors, when are we going to do it? MARA25 tabled a specific proposal. I spoke before about a issue bond from the European Central Bank for thirty years. Some days later, the Spanish Government came and made a similar proposal - mentally, it is not too far - for perpetual bonuses, for bonds that the European Union could issue. Let me remind some people that some laughed too much when I was talking about perpetual bonuses in 2014 and 2015. Let me remind you, however, why I was talking about perpetual bonuses, because at that time we had analysed the debts of the Greek State and a part of it that was the debt to the European Central Bank - the SMP Bonds - could have been frozen or exchanged with such bonds that Greece would have issued, replaced the SMP bonuses with the European Central Bank, this exchange would have taken place, this swap and should not have paid it back, we would have just paid a small interest rate at the European Central Bank forever. It was one way in which we could have cleared this debt reserve, which we should never have had, it was Trichet's fault that we had it. The mistake of the Spanish proposal is that when you say "one", in fact - what do you say? - You say it's one-off, it's one-off. The eternal bonds are right, they are used a lot for this one-off exchange, but here we are not talking about a one-off debt. The reason why - I hope - you have embraced the Eurobond is because it is a living tool that the European Union should have every year, all the time, not just to unleash an old debt and leave it behind, to forget it. Our proposal for a 30-year bond from the European Central Bank, which basically - what is it doing? - transferring the new debt to our shoulders now - to your shoulders, to the shoulders of the Spaniards, the Italians - this new debt to be borne by the European Central Bank, not by printing money - cannot do so - but by issuing bonds, it can issue bonds. And that's what we can look at and legally we've looked into. There is no doubt about it, I have discussed it with Benoit Kere, it is legal and it is fully compatible with Europe's common interest. The beauty of the 30th century do you know who it is? We say, in fact, that you are "transferring this new debt from the shoulders of our countries to the European Central Bank for thirty years!" In thirty years' time we must have created the Federal Ministry of Finance that will take out the Eurobond by means of democratic procedures, with a new European Constitution and so on. If we cannot, Mr Stavoura, ladies and gentlemen, at the moment as Europeans, commit that within thirty years, three decades, if we cannot commit that within thirty years, we will be able to confide, there will be no European Union. And not only will the European Union not exist, it is not worth the European Union. That's what you should have asked for. That's why I'm telling you that you let this crisis go lost. What does this mean for our country, ladies and gentlemen? On 10 March in this Chamber we tabled a specific proposal which was trying to combine effectiveness with responsibility. I said "EUR 3.6 billion, drop it today in the economy!", because I knew you would have it in your joint account with the Bank of Greece. I did not ask for EUR 20 billion or EUR 30 billion. And I said, Mr Staikora, that the economic epidemic is what happens with the health epidemic. Every day you don't move fast... I too should like to congratulate you, Mr. Gerapetiti, on the whole government that we have equalized the curve. And I'm proud of it. - the thing is how we go in phase two, but that's a second story. Congratulations! I'm glad we did this in the economic sector, though, what did I say to you? The exponential timeline itself is being kept. If you had taken these 3.6 billion euros on 10 March - on 11 March - you would have achieved an defense against the recession, which, today, would have wanted 20 billion euros, because the curve is geometric, if not exponential, is not linear. What did you do? Wait, you were holding ammo to shoot them later in the fight. That's a huge mistake! In addition, we told you "debit cards of EUR 300, 400 for one and a half million Greeks who will not get 1 euro now and who are closed in wet apartments without even receiving, not having money, not even receiving it". Red loans: Accuracy Antipolitics grows - and well it does - for the first residence. We are mobilizing ourselves for something more fundamental, for HERAKLE. HERAKLIS is over, Mr. Stakoura. He was always cancerous, always a problem bill and a law after his vote. Now by quadrupling, with the fivefold flow of red loans, with the posture of payments by households to the funds they have purchased, there is no chance that the banks will be redeemed through the “HRAKLI”. Regardless of what we have on the issue of the social burden-sharing, HERAKLIS must be frozen, it must be frozen today. We call that one, a month and a half. From the outset we were against, but now you have a sacred obligation to yourself, because, firstly, it is not going to work and secondly - tell me if I am wrong - the guarantees of the Greek State will not be activated? At any time, will the funds that have bought the traches which you have guaranteed and will ask you to go borrow from the ESM - why is that the SYRIZA pillow - to pay them? And the question is, once it's a plan that's dead anyway, the only thing that's going to cause is legal problems and financial problems, because you don't freeze it. There's no technological answer, Mr. Stakoura. There's no answer. Now I've been asking for a month and a half. The only reason is that there are interests within these funds, which are intertwined with some who keep the straps on you. I denounce it at the moment from the Step of the House. And since I referred to the pillow, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, stop talking about the pillow. Mr Tsakalotos, there has never been a pillow, a credit card you left Mr. Stakoura from the EUR 21 billion troika. We don't want the credit card from the troika. We were elected together in 2015, so that we no longer get such credit cards from the Troika. The last thing the Greek Government needs right now is a credit card from the ESM. Of course, they'll go because Mr. Staruras has already agreed to get more money from the ESS. But you - SYRIZA - get rid of this pillow! This story is over. I know why you're saying it. You want to convince yourself first and then the rest that if it were you, you had put some money aside and got the thing out, despite the third and fourth memorandums. It wasn't coming out! It didn't come out of the 6th of July when you did 'no' 'yes'. You need to understand this at last and get yourself locked up. When the ship sinks, it's not an ideal policy to stay in the waterfront until you get to the bottom. If you were government yesterday, wasn't Mr. Mitsotakis, it was Mr. Tsipras at the summit, what would he do? He was gonna veto? You, Mr. Chakaloto, on 9 April, would you veto Mr. Stakoura? And if you would veto on April 9th, why didn't you put so many years before, before loading the Greek people with two memoranda, the third and fourth? What we have now - to look ahead - is a clear moment of austerity that comes to us. It's the result of the oligoria of April 9th and the oligoria last night. Mrs Merkel said so, her advisers guide her so that she returns to the'schwarz null' in 'black zero' in 2021. This year they will have a deficit, next year they will have a small surplus and they will do so with our help, of course, but they will do so. And then you should know that the mandate, the enhanced supervision, will come next March, April. He will come and tell you: "Come here, you're supposed to have a primary surplus, okay, you can't have, because we understand what's wrong with you, but you have a deficit." How much do you put today, Mr. Stakoura? I tell you it will be '15'. You will tell me that it will be '6', '7'. As I told you it was '10' the recession on 10 March, and you said we would have '0', we will see where the numbers are going. But I wish we had no deficit. I tell you we'll have and it'll be big. Only to take you to "-5" from "-15", from "-12", this is a sounding, it is a austerity that reminds the days of Giorgos Papaconstantinou and George Papandreou 2010-2011. Such a denominational wave comes in this country. Let me close - I have spoken a lot, but I have come from a distance - with one question, because - you know - we are currently dealing with an irony alliance in some countries - you are dealing with them, you know that - which both the Eurobond and the other. That's where we might be arguing about what you have to do. We say'veto', you say 'no veto', but I think that what I have just said is in agreement. The question is: If all of us are right - and you and us and the Civic Opposition we consent to in the Eurobond - that the Eurobond is not a question of solidarity or charity to the south, but something very good for Europe, which means that it will be good for Germany too, once the eurozone is stabilised, once we start buying German cars again - I say now, so? - why do they say 'no'? That is a question that should concern us, because the answer that they are foolish is a foolish answer. It's not Mr. Heckstra and Mr. Solts, silly people. Something else is going on. You will allow me very quickly to share with you the position of Mera25 on what is going on. It is in the interest of the German citizens, the majority of them, the Dutch citizens, the majority of them, the Eurobond. However, the oligarchy in both Germany and the Netherlands and in France and other countries - not the municipality, but the oligarchy - sees the architecture of the euro and thinks 'What triumph is it?' Think about it. We have built a big economic block, very rich, which is the first time in the history of humanity, the first time in the history of capitalism at least, which you have tools that can enhance oligarchy, such as the quantitative relaxation that billions are cut off and taken by banks. And banks lend them to 'SIEMENS'. SIEMENS does not invest, buys shares in SIEMENS, raises its share of SIEMENS and wins the board of SIEMENS, which is included in the share of SIEMENS. So you have an oligarchy that has all the tools to help her in the difficult moment and there is no tool in the European Union right now - not one! - to be able to use a democratically elected Prime Minister or President - a tool! - to make a significant transfer of income or wealth from the rich to the poor. If he wants to! Ms. Merkel doesn't have that tool either. Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain, a country that is in a much worse situation than Germany, has far greater capabilities and much more tools so that, if he wants - if he wants to! - transfer wealth and income from the rich to the poor. In the European Union, in the European Monetary Union, that does not exist. You know, you face people in there who move from oligarchic interests that only concern them: not to lose this triumph. They are prepared to destroy Europe rather than allow the creation of a Eurobond or any other tool that can restructure debt and transfer debt and power from the rich to the poor. We will obviously disagree on that. That is why we are here as Mera25, because our analysis of what needs to be done and our analysis of what is to be done is consistent. I would like to hear your point of view. Either Mr Solts and Mr Hekstra are foolish or what we say is not the case, namely that the Eurobond is beneficial for the whole of Europe. I think our analysis is the best. I'll go back to Aegina. And I say this for those who want to drown my voice again by creating misery in the media. My ship leaves at 16:30. Please organise the construction better this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u166	Thank you. Because there was a debate with Mr Tsakalotos, I would like to inform the House that I have answered it. I just want to point out to him what is in Parliament's Rules of Procedure. It is in Article 64(3): "If the speech is requested by the President of a parliamentary group and by an alternate representative of another parliamentary group, the President of the parliamentary group shall take the lead".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u167	So if Tsipras were here, wouldn't I answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u168	You're not Tsipras!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u169	I'll make it up to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u170	But you have the floor, Mr Chakaloto. If you want...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u171	I'll make it up to him!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u172	I'm telling you what the Rules of Procedure say. If you want, change the Rules of Procedure. I can't do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u173	Can I talk now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u174	I tell you that if the President of a parliamentary group and the alternate representative of another parliamentary group are asked to speak, the President of the parliamentary group shall take the lead. It's over. Mr Tsakalotos, would you like me to give you the floor to intervene now or would you like to hear Mr Staikoura, who is going to speak, and have the floor afterwards?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u175	Can I talk now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u176	Not if you want to take the intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u177	Don't talk twice, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u178	All right, then you will be patient with Mr Stagioras talking and then we will enter the parliamentary representatives. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u179	But now he has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u180	I would like to inform you that he has asked me for the floor for a long time to speak detailedly about everything. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll file a lot of documents, so I'll keep them aside so I can give them to you once and for all. Ladies and gentlemen, with a sense of duty and accountability, as the President of the Police Department said, and without any political confrontation, I will address myself on an issue that he has raised, and for which he has been called and written several times, to raise the famous Greek curtain. Unfortunately, we do not observe the saying of our ancestors "Christmas slowly or siege of silence", that is, you must remain silent or say something better than silence. I will therefore be placed on cash or as fully as the country's 'total cash' and general government bodies should be called. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start with the time-consuming development of this issue, because these have not been created in recent years. I repeat, these have not been created in recent years. In the first place, the Government of New Democracy in early 2014 laid the foundations and institutional framework for broadening and exploring the public's resources and managing its cash reserves aggregated, cash-flows that were dispersed until then in various accounts with commercial banks and the Bank of Greece. This was then done by upgrading the role of the General Accounting Office of the State, as well as the Public Debt Management Agency, the DPRK. In particular, this process began at the end of February 2014 by a ministerial decision of the speaker, then Deputy Minister of Finance. Therefore, in the end, I will submit in the minutes the decision of the Deputy Minister of Finance and the relevant decision, as published in the Official Journal of the Government on 27 February 2014. This decision authorised the DPRK as the Trustee of the Greek State for the purpose of concluding the sale of securities for the management of the Greek State by means of a repurchase agreement, known repos, with general government bodies. It was a targeted move towards meticulous use of this tool on the part of the public, aimed at when it was necessary and not mandatory - compare words, I will come back for 2015 - with the consent of the actors - to come back for 2015 - to strengthen public liquidity in the short term until stable access to international capital markets is restored. This strategy then became part of a wider rationalisation of financial management, part of which was the overall management and exploitation of the cash resources, the recording and abolition of the Greek government's non-necessary bank accounts, the identification of the inactive cash resources and their transfer to the Greek State's account at the Bank of Greece. It should be noted that there were later three specific laws: L.4250, L.4254 and L.4270 of 2014 establishing the repos procedure. On 26 March 2014, 7 April 2014 and 28 June 2014. It is worth pointing out that at that time SYRIZA was against the relevant provisions as a Civic Opposition, today's battalion, voted against in total. In fact, then SYRIZA's rapporteur argued on February 27, 2014 in Parliament's Committee on Balance Sheet and Report, that DPRK's reposissues are a little despair. That's what the Qualified Opposition was saying then. The reposes said "historic history of desperation", and today he celebrates about them and says that it is good political practice. I say that to remember our past. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of these initiatives, on 31 December 2014 the picture of the total cash resources of the state and general government is the following: first, the central government cash assets based on the Public Debt Bulletin - I will submit it in the Minutes - were EUR 2.6 billion. Secondly, the general government's cash assets, based on the official figures of the Bank of Greece and DPRK, were EUR 13.4 billion. And I'll testify to that in the Minutes. Thirdly, repos, which should not be confused with the total cash flows of the State and general government, from zero to 31 December 2013, were formed, according to the General Government Bulletin - I will submit it in the Minutes - at EUR 8.6 billion. Therefore, in order to collect them, the State’s total cash assets at the end of 2014 amounted to EUR 16 billion. It should be noted, in fact, that if the EUR 16 billion took into account that at the end of 2014 the valuation of the participation of the Financial Stability Fund in the systemic banks was EUR 11.6 billion, then the total public property received by SYRIZA was EUR 28 billion. I will submit in the minutes the relevant Bulletin of the Financial Stability Fund. So hold on to this: we are talking about EUR 16 billion in cash and EUR 28 billion in total public property. This picture did not change in the first days of 2015, despite the lack of revenue due to the political uncertainty of the elections and the "I don't pay" movement that SYRIZA played. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this was the image of the country's fund at the end of 2014, with the official figures of the state. I note that then the estimates said that if the SYRIZA government did not take any initiative, the country, precisely because the revenues were less than the targets, would have to resort to this fund after 24 February 2015, because it would simply not have had the revenue to pay the costs. I will return to this, by commenting on SYRIZA's current proposal that ignores the suspensions of tax and insurance obligations. That's very interesting. That was the main reason why the New Democracy, as a government at that time, sought to close in the first two months, in a way beneficial to the country, the agreement to receive the last dose of the then programme. On the contrary, the new government of SYRIZA then assured the Greek society, despite the fact that he knew the truth from me personally, that the country does not need the last instalment of the loan contract. It then signed on 20 February 2015 that the dose will be disbursed as a whole at the end of the initial assessment in June. However, this attitude at the time of the SYRIZA government changed immediately, unfortunately, when it was in a dead end, which it itself created, was unable to meet current country's cash requirements. That is why it has taken a series of actions, using and expanding the framework found since 2014 and established by the previous government, with a trunk of New Democracy. Initially an amendment was tabled to the humanitarian crisis bill on 19 March 2015, with which the general government bodies could carry - the word is'may invest' - their funds available for investment in the Bank of Greece. On 27 April 2015, however, the Government then ratified an act of legislative content whereby the transfer of cash was compulsory, i.e. they had to deposit their cash. When? On 27 April 2015, one month after their previous decision. Therefore, they were made in connection with the legislative initiatives of successive governments on the State's cash reserves and general government institutions to commercial banks and the Bank of Greece. These cash reserves do not belong to any government, to any Prime Minister, to any Finance Minister. It's the Greek people's money. They are the cash assets of all general government bodies. And we arrive in 2017. What happened then? In August 2017, then, due to the unreliability of the SYRIZA Government, by ministerial decision - I will submit it in the Minutes - the Deputy Minister of Finance opens for the first time an account with the Bank of Greece entitled "Greek State, Reserve Account from the Capital Markets", something beyond the cash reserves of general government bodies. The same decision established the credit and debit movement of the account by the General Government Directorate for Budget of the General Accounting Office of the State. In particular, the appropriations would be made by means of transfers of three amounts, i.e. the net revenue following the suggestion of DPRK resulting from the Greek State's recourse to the capital markets until the end of the third support programme, amounts following an indication of DPRK from the European Support Facility to create a cash reserve, as the Act says, for the safe access of the country to international capital markets and funds from the Greek State's cash reserves. This account alone is what the Civic Response "safety pillow", as Mr Tsakalotos confirmed in his article at "NAYTEMATIC" on 23 December 2019, not 36 billion euros, but 15.7 billion euros as I will say shortly. This is the so-called cash pillow, the new account beyond cash in cash rather than the central government's cash reserves. This amount, as many people know very well in this Chamber, cannot be used without the assent of the European Stability Mechanism, even under very strict procedures and conditions. Because, indeed, today I heard something about accountability by Mr Tsipras, to note that at that time I tabled five parliamentary questions to the then relevant Minister of Finance, in conditions of relatively mild and calm nature. I had asked for information on the relevant operations of the then government and the credits of this account, but also on the state's cash reserves as a whole. The first question was on 15 March 2016, the second on 1 March 2018, the third on 13 April 2018, the fourth on 23 May 2018 and the fifth on 23 July 2018. I never got an answer. On the contrary, I am here to give answers and, in fact, four days after a question was tabled by the Qualified Opposition. I give some answers, because I respect the parliamentary procedure, colleagues from all political parties, and above all the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, I summarise the results of what I have said so far. Firstly, the repos from EUR 8.6 billion at the end of 2014 was formed at EUR 19.2 billion in June 2019 and today is at EUR 33.8 billion. Secondly, the total cash reserves of the state and general government from EUR 16 billion at the end of 2014 were formed - without the special account - at EUR 27 billion in June 2019 and currently at EUR 21 billion. This short reduction in recent years is due to the specific financial needs of the Greek State. I want to be perfectly clear. The first cover was the early repayment of part of the International Monetary Fund loan in November 2019. And SYRIZA was in the government, and he didn't get the money from there. The second coverage was the gradual reduction of Greek State interest rates from September 2019 to February 2020. Third, the partial support of the Ministry of Finance's regular reserve to deal with the economic impact of the expansion of the coronary. Full clarity for everything. Thirdly, the interests now, the valuation of the participation of the Financial Stability Fund in systemic banks from EUR 11.6 billion at the end of 2014 plummeted to EUR 1.6 billion in June 2019. This is the picture you left in the value of the shares of Greek taxpayers in the banking system. I have in front of me the attached interim financial statements. All of this I'll testify to in the Minutes. Therefore, the total public assets of EUR 28 billion at the end of 2014, as received by the Government of SYRIZA, were formed at the same level in June 2019, without the special account. At the end of March - the next question raised - the total fund amounts to 36.6 billion. How is it analyzed? The 15.7 billion of them - that is what I said before - come from the last disbursement from the European Stability Mechanism to our country and from the surpluses of that period. And here I'm going to do an analysis to get a full picture. The EUR 9 billion from instalments from the European Support Facility - by the way, from instalments that we received but which did not go to the economy at that time, and that was the criticism the Civic Anti-Population then made that the money did not go to the real economy - the EUR 3 billion from debt issues and EUR 3.7 billion from surpluses. So, 9 and 3 and 3,7 is 15,7. This amount had to be kept aside due to the unreliability of the then government and its inability to borrow at a low interest rate from the markets. The general government bodies' assets held in commercial banks and the Bank of Greece are EUR 10.7 billion and EUR 10.2 billion are central government cash. So 15.7 and 10.7 and 10.2 make 36.6 billion euros. Ladies and gentlemen, I have presented you in detail, as has never been done in plenary, since the beginning of the previous economic crisis the image of the country's fund. What are the useful conclusions that can be drawn? First conclusion, the State and general government’s cash assets existed and exist, did not be discovered by SYRIZA and increased or decreased according to the state’s new debt issues. For example, we have recently come out and borrowed EUR 2 billion with a seven-year issue. They increase these reserves, depending on the debt service, depending on the amount of the Greek government's interest rate, depending on the repayment of the loan to the International Monetary Fund. For example - I repeat - if the previous government were to repay the part of the loan to the International Monetary Fund - it did not, like many others - which the current government did immediately, use resources from these cash in order to make the payment of the amount. So it would deliver to the next government - in the current - 2.8 billion euros less cash. If it were to reduce the treasury bills, as it was committed - and this was done after July 2019 - these funds would be even less than EUR 4.5 billion. All these choices, however, made by the current government and supposedly launched by the previous one, are beneficial to the country and its citizens. Second conclusion, another ‘Special Reserve Account’ and another ‘Financial assets of the central administration and general government’. All these amounts together make up the state fund. The difference, however, is that the use of the special account is only made under strict conditions and conditions imposed on the government of SYRIZA. In this regard, the Commission considers that the State aid granted by SYRIZA to SYRIZA does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Fourth conclusion, the New Democracy Ministry of Finance, respecting parliamentary control and transparency procedures, is present in the House and is placed, honoring parliamentism and democracy, contrary to the practice followed by SYRIZA. Absolute transparency everywhere. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing and having spoken about cash reserves, I can only present a number of reasonable questions and concerns raised by the SYRIZA's positions on the use of these resources in the treatment of the coronary pandemic. Firstly, we are accused by the Qualified Opposition that the measures we have taken so far are not enough and that we should use more, if not all, the cash resources. At the same time, it accuses us of reducing cash. So what exactly is it? And one thing and the other can't be. Does SYRIZA propose to deplete or maintain them, at least to a satisfactory degree? Secondly, the Qualified Opposition has presented a package of measures totalling EUR 26.3 billion to deal with the impact of the coronary. However, from the day that this programme was presented, every day, to whom Mr Tsipras is seeing, he promises extra resources that were not in the programme. See, for example, the press release after meeting people from the cultural field. He said he'd give multiple resources there too. But it wasn't at 26 billion. So she shared and continues to share every day promises to support sectors with additional resources that were not included in her original proposals. In other words, the Civic Opposition fully adopts the logic of "go, people!", the Thessaloniki program in repetition, at its best. Third, let's go to the most basics. The presentation of its proposal, of course, the need for suspensions for the payment of tax and insurance obligations by households and businesses, has recognised in the presentation of its proposal. In fact, following the friendly tactics of irresponsible auctions, he made an advance statement of a six-month suspension, which, as he states, is ‘if necessary to be extended to nine months’, and indeed ‘all tax obligations’. However, the calculation does not take into account the cash costs of these measures of EUR 12 billion resulting from these suspensions. What does that mean, practically? When you suspend a citizen, a company and a month of March does not pay his tax obligation, a gap arises to pay the state's expenses this month, pensions for example. Who's gonna pay for these? Who will pay the EUR 12 billion? Obviously, the cash resources come to pay and cover this gap. So how can SYRIZA ignore this basic reality? Isn't the citizen paying taxes? Doesn't he pay the insurance contributions? How will the pensions be paid? Revenue is paid for. So this gap comes in and they cover the cash flow. What's the result? Hold it. Only by raising SYRIZA's budgetary measures, 14 billion and 12 billion, which are the suspensions, do 26 billion. This exceeds the country's cash flow. So the country with the SYRIZA proposal should also use resources from the special account. It therefore drives the country into a new memorandum. We will avoid that. Moreover, the exercise becomes more interesting. The Qualified Opposition argues that the measure of suspensions will not have any financial costs, as the obligations will simply be repaid in a different period of time. So what does SYRIZA say? It will give six or nine months of suspension - by the way, if it gives nine, we are already going to 2021, so there is a financial cost - and it will provide the citizens with one of the obligations of six and nine months. Obviously it is not, so there is also a financial cost in the exercise of the SYRIZA and in our exercise, but it is ignored by the SYRIZA, while it has been measured by us. Eventually, does the Qualified Opposition say that to say it or by ignorance of danger? Fourthly, it is even more interesting: the Civic Opposition discounts its proposal arbitrarily that tax refunds, the famous 'ANFAs' and 'SMPs', 3.5 billion, can be used tomorrow morning. Mr Tsakalotos has signed these for the next three years, to accompany positive evaluations of the country every six months, to go only for the debt, and now suddenly they say 'the 3.5 billion take them without consulting anyone'. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] But since the decision is specific and comes from the previous government. It breaks depending on the ratings, it goes up to 2022 and, if anything, the current government in December 2019 secured this money to go to growth rather than to debt, as the previous government had committed. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I've heard some other very interesting facts today. For example, I have heard that in the European Commission's report there was only one general reference for the protection of first residence, you say the law that SYRIZA voted for by stopping at 31-12-2019 the protection of first residence is something different! SYRIZA law of 1 April 2019, end date 31-12-2019. I'll submit it to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u182	There was a new law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u183	No report from the European Commission. The law of SYRIZA, with the end date of 31-12-2019 and the current government and this law took him back for four months. Here is one law 31-12-2019, not a European Commission report, but a law with the signatures of the members of the SYRIZA government, and that is the law with the signatures of the members of the Government of New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u184	Slow down, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u185	Thank you very much. I've heard of whether there are or are no arrangements in the banks. They took place between July 2019 and March 2020 a hundred and ninety-five thousand four hundred thirty three bilateral housing, consumer and business loans arrangements. I'll testify to the Minutes and how this platform was going. I will repeat that we, the government, have shown from the very beginning that it is making appropriate policies at the right time. So the issue by next Friday will be dealt with by the government with responsibility and sensitivity. Finally, because there were some references by Mr Tsipras to the eight-seat-pumps in May, what the government says is very simple. What happened in the first phase of the crisis? As the state had to, it came up and lifted the burden of operation, almost all of the economy - as it had a duty in the unprecedented crisis - by strengthening employees, businesses, freelance professionals and unemployed. In the second phase of the crisis, we hope that the economy will begin to open up, we must further strengthen the liquidity of enterprises, but also pay attention to the maintenance of jobs by the end of the year. So we must support businesses with a repayable advance, with interest rate subsidies, with guaranteed loans so that they can operate in a difficult situation at the beginning, keep jobs and be stabilised. So, when it comes, to say it quite simply, a business - as it already starts and happens - is asking its workers back to be able to operate, the state cannot pay up to EUR 800. The state is for parole. When the operation comes and asks for the worker back, because it opens up in May, the worker will not be paid on the one hand and on the other. Here it is necessary to share costs with a sense of law and solidarity between states, businesses and society. The State will lay the foundations for the resumption of economic activity, contributing to the strengthening of liquidity. The business community, however, must make effective and socially responsible use of state aid, while at the same time guaranteeing jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, too. Good evening. Happy birthday! Christ, she's resurrected! Let's go to the Parliamentary Representatives. Mr. Tsakalotos asked for the floor first from SYRIZA, then Mr. Gregoriadis asked for the floor from Mera25. If no one has any objections to speak before the previous gentlemen, I would be happy to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u187	Mr President, if my colleague can wait, why...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u188	Of course, he's here, he can hear you. He said he's in a hurry and he has very little to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u189	After Mr. Loverdos, Mr. President, I don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u190	Find them! For now, let Mr. Chakalotos come. Mr. Voutsi, so I don't want to make a mistake again, do you want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u191	For a minute, Mr President, may I tell you? I'm not going to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u192	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u193	I just want to say about the previous procedure that has been followed - Mr Stagioras is present - that it is unprecedented for thirty-two minutes that the Minister of Finance should take the floor, without responding, because Mr Tsakalotos had been asked a specific question on the issues of the state's available resources in order to make the answer within a specific procedure. He was interrupted by the previous President-in-Office because the Minister, Mr Gerapetritis, on behalf of the government, replied to the President of Officerial Response, Mr Varoufakis, and he opened the European Union's issue of what happened the other day, and I also understand how the other parties are aware of the procedure - there is a very big problem. In other words, Mr Tsakalotos, if he would like to talk about responding to the special parliamentary procedure on the available resources, Mr Staikoura, it would have to be placed for the equal year or for any year - it does not have a role - and regardless of the subject matter of the previous debate, to be placed. At the same time, it was not previously given the floor - it was not you - to speak on behalf of the President of the Police Department. In other words, I just wanted to point out to you, in view of the fact that it was known, the Chief of Police Response here and the rest of the Vice-Population leaders who raised specific issues which were not answered - the nervousness and embarrassment of the Government to change the agenda - because this is what it is - and to bring other ministers to discuss other outstanding issues. Because it came in last week that the Prime Minister will take the initiative, not by accepting the proposal for a day-to-day discussion of the leaders of the parties, but again to a limited 'under control' - put this 'under control' - Parliamentary procedure - through the announcements he will make and then speak to the heads of the other parties - that the whole economy would be discussed. This is why we have requested clarifications today. Generally speaking, precisely because the House is not working now, because of the special circumstances - but not only - the effort made by the Government to make use of the Par liament's function in a normal way, it is clear that it brings all the parties to the opposition - I, at the moment, particularly, see in terms of Acoustic Opposition - in a situation which is lower, in the sense of equality on the agenda of the issues being discussed, over the time being discussed, on the ranges which are being discussed and on the answers that are not given here. I wanted to make this comment. I did not want to take the floor for the debate, but I think this debate should once be respected here. Because I have heard both Mr Gerapetti and Mr Stakoura say how much they respect the parliamentary procedure. Let me tell you that these are done through specific debates that have their own order of suggestions and positions and, above all, the answers to issues that are raised and which we are only going through together in order to change the agenda. I also understand the difficulty of the other parliamentary experienced representatives here in the parties in such a process of giving their own compulsory presence. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u194	You're welcome. Mr Eukleidis Tsakalots has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. I will not comment on 80% of Mr. Stakoura's speech. I think he should have made a written briefing on cash so that we can discuss it. At six minutes - I am sure, Mr President, I will have a tolerance - we cannot answer that. I hope it is better to prepare for other things you have told us, such as the protection of first homes. You're not watching the House. It's obvious. You're already getting the notes. The debate on the first residence was between me and Mr Chiara, if we had promised that there would be no protection. And that's what I said. It's not texted. He's not one of them. Mr.4605 ends - as you said - and we were committed to bringing in a new framework that would be protected. Your first act was to commit that there will be no extension of the first residence. It was something completely different, as we are completely different in everything. With such inaccuracies, I can imagine what I'm going to see when I'm studying the previews you had from your team, so I can comment on it. It's obvious you came here to change the agenda. The President said so, too, who is always more polite than me. It was so obvious. What was the agenda? What was the debate in the House? First, it was the subject of training for professionals, who took it back. There was a debate and I'll come back to it. The other was yesterday's European Union summit which did not say a word, and that was the debate and how we are going. I would like to ask you, Mr Gerapetiti, about the European Union and what happened yesterday, since Mr Mitsotakis is not here. I understand that in yesterday's debate there were three topics for the recovery fund: firstly, how great it must be, secondly, the dosage between hot money or loans, the shifts, which are also a subject in the Greek economic debate and, thirdly, the issue of reciprocity, Eurobond, Eurobonds, etc. Mr Mitsotakis signed a text with eight other leaders in favour of this Eurobond, the Eurobond. I must tell you that since he signed it, he has not supported it with fanaticism and self-renunciation or at least doesn't seem that way. It doesn't seem like the initiatives that Sanchez takes, the initiatives Costa takes, the initiatives Rute and other leaders take. There's a conversation. Where is Mr Mitsotakis in the European debate? Where's his intervention? Was that big enough? You want a bigger one? How much should it be in loans, how much in hot money? Does Mr. Mitsotakis or do you agree that what came out of Christine Lagard is too little, too late? Is Europe at risk? Is he taking enough measures? Do you contribute within the European People's Party, at some other forums, to make something different? Do you realize that Mr. Stakoras will have a huge problem over the next two years? I do not know what he says about the deficit or the primary deficit for this year and for time, but do you understand what the problem is, without any of these things being discussed in Europe? Mr. Mitsotakis signed a letter and it's over? Where is the leadership to say that Greece is being drafted with Spain and Italy and that is the only way we can intervene? I really do not see this European presence and it is very important for Greece. Italy will have the first problem, but we too will have a problem if the European Union does not change it. Actually, we have two options, Mr. Gerapitri. One option was to solve the issue now, through a Eurobond, which has this element that Mr Varoufakis said, debt restructuring, or to charge to the countries of debt which, in two years' time, will obviously have to do something. I think it's harder after two years. It's gonna be harder. That's why I'm telling you it matters. If we do not take it now, I judge - with my own economic authorities and the analyses made by my party and other economists - that it will be very difficult in two years for the Eurozone and difficult for Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u196	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u197	I say that it will be more difficult for the debt that has already increased, which will have been charged to the Member States, and therefore the amount of restructuring will be higher. So I am also concerned about Greece and the sustainability of the Eurozone. Instead of responding to these issues, Mr. Stagiras made various criticisms about SYRIZA, without, as always, analysing that there is an economic debate about the front or not. There's a conversation that says when you get something more, more forward, you'll have less need to get later. But take a seat, talk about it. Do not just say that "that's what SYRIZA said, that's what SYRIZA said", without having an analysis of this criticism. Is that a mistake? It's called too many economists. It's part of the public dialogue now. He argued that the rate would be enough and that if the 4% prediction of Mr Stournara is worse, it would be your fault or it would not be your fault for another reason that will be found at that time, but to make an analysis of this matter. But I don't see her. There is, of course, the quality that you never answer. I imagine that you do not agree, Mr Stakoura, nor do you, Mr Gerapetititi, that it would be a good thing for workers to take only EUR 500 a month, because otherwise they would lose them if they were given more money, because they would not be able to spend it on anything else. You won't agree on that, but is 533 euros enough? Is it? We have heard that the Greek Government is the only one who has ruled out redundancies. It's not exactly like that, Mr. Gerapitris. First of all, Denmark and Italy are making some of them as a whole. Anyway, on the quality issue we have said specific things about what workers need. That 500 euros are not enough and not just that they are not enough for now. They won't be able to spend when we get out of the clean sanitary place. But to have a conversation about whether it is or isn't enough. We have done an analysis because we need warmer money for small businesses that are excluded from the financial system. For one thing and the other reason. That is why we put 3 billion in our programme "We stay up". It's a series of social groups that don't help and need help. Anyway, it is not possible, Mr Stakoura, on Monday to accuse me of being a populist, on Tuesday following the Prime Minister's pressure to take more measures, on Wednesday again, that I am a populist I want above, on Thursday to take other measures. This is not a serious way of developing policy. Finally, decide how much danger is, not only for the rate of growth, but also for the budget deficit and for the primary deficit, and what we could do more forward and then discuss the quality and priorities. Let's go to quality now. I have heard Mr Markopoulos telling us that we are fascists because we are raising the question of professionals and teletraining. I won't report to the Bible. I will mention Shakespeare and Queen Gertrude who you will remember has the famous word "Mrs. complains to me". This applies to your own government. Because after you supported this, since all your ministers were dating and saying what impressive was, then you changed it. You've cleared Mr. Brutsi. If it's Mr. Brutsi's fault. Mr Tsipras told you to place yourself if it was Mr Brutsi's fault or the final state had a small participation. Now the answer is to protest what SYRIZA did before. Firstly, we had programmes from European funds that were locked up for training programmes. In these cases, we have drawn up training under specific conditions, criteria and political content and not, of course, 'Scoil Age'. Secondly, you did not have that commitment. You did not have to give the help in this form. The money was there. So the point was to discuss whether the professionals needed the help you gave to other categories of workers. You had the discretion to give it to money. Thirdly, your Minister did not approve of CEC. Your Minister approved the "Scoil Age" and the posts. He put his signature on this content. This final state, Mr. Gerapetiti, couldn't have seen before what your Minister signed? I only see two good in this real scandal. The first is that you slowly learn that the New Democracy Government is business as a user, that we return to the way we share the money, and the second is less important, that there are educational and educational institutions that have worse Greek than mine. It's a comfort to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u198	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u199	I shall conclude, Mr President. I think what you've really done shows how you're dealing with the state. It actually shows that the state at last was not made for either efficiency or better training. Because we are academics, all three, let me tell you that your first class act was the two-year programs for the poorest children in the universities that had moved forward. At the University of Thessaly there were also other very good programs. You abolished this, which was public education for children in social classes who are not so favourably and instead of that, you preferred to give money to these KECs. Shows your direction. Maybe you've gotten over that. It is the first blow to which this deficit appears to exist. Mr. Gerapititi, I have another matter. You are criticising us that we are making a lot of criticism in the media. As a member of this government, do you not worry about ERT at all? I have too many PPCP friends and I don't want to say 'Tirana Radio', why will they fight me and pull my ears, but is it really a matter of pluralizing public dialogue, ERT news? Can you talk after me and tell me that you see the ERT's evening news report and you think it has a pluralism of critical views? Is that what you're telling us? The worst time the ERT passes. Her worst moment! And that's why you have some responsibility. And if you really believe that there is no quarantine of democracy, you can tell me that we cannot do anything about private media, but about ERT and how it manages this crisis, you must have immediate interest. I conclude, Mr President - and it will really be my last word - by this: we are in danger of the last thing I said to you. As I anticipate, we will not go very well in this crisis. We may have done much better than many other countries in the clean sanitary section - with well-meaning criticisms that we have made to you, which was around the basic torso that was in the right direction - but in economics it will not be that way. The lack of dialogue and the lack of democracy and public space for this debate can, in addition to the rights - apart from what is important for democracy - have a very high cost in its own efficiency of the government. I think that by better means, you would not have made the mistake with training. I think that with better means, with better dialogue, with greater pluralism, you will not have our positions - nor will I expect it - but some things can be corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u200	Mr President, may I have the floor, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u201	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u202	Sure. But just a minute, because Mr Gerapitris has asked for the floor first. Minister, you have the floor for a minute, until the seat is cleared.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u203	I repeat once again that it is a great honour and joy to always speak with Professor Chakaloto. However, I will only be allowed three comments, not more than thirty seconds each. Professor, ERT may not be at the level you see it, but it's not the ERT of the past. Let's all put this together. The phenomena of vulgar elevations against the Chief of Officer Response do not exist, the contents have been upgraded. I want, at least, to appreciate the fact that ERT has also shown important things on the educational television. There was an ERT, which is clearly upgraded. Secondly, I would remind you that the first thing the government has done in relation to education was not that it abolished the two-year period. The first thing he did was abrogated thirty-seven new departments, which were held on the eve of the elections, with legislative amendments five minutes before the vote on educational bills. What happened to the perpetuation of the client state. And the reintroduction of standards and experimental ones. That's what he brought. Thirdly, you always do me the honor of referring to the final state. Three times you mentioned it now. I am proud, and today I would like to tell you on account of knowledge and double pride. Because the final state produced in a very difficult treaty two hundred eight ministerial decisions, common ministerial decisions up to eight ministers, in forty-five days, six ministerial decisions every day, only for the management of COVID -19, which are otherwise very questionable, six legislative acts up to seventy-five articles, which come to Parliament immediately. You will allow me to say, part of the success of this programme was the fact that there was a central coordination to manage all these complex issues that were not in other states that were organised much more in a decentralised, regional and federal system. It was a value of our system. I'm hanging up. You will allow me, Mr Tsakalote, to withdraw the term 'caratina of democracy'. Unless I didn't listen well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u204	I said 'I don't want'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u205	Please, our democracy today is more secure than ever. And if you would like my view, from this crisis, democracy is coming much stronger, because a new stage is taking place that is the democracy of persuasion and accountability. A great success element of the system is the fact that the Greek people were informed every day of all the elements of the crisis, there was nothing left in the dark, the Greek people knew and judged, we accounted for every day, but, above all, democracy was made daily, because the basic rule in the end for compliance with every rule is the persuasiveness that they produce and I think that we have achieved it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u206	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, I would like the floor for thirty seconds. I won't talk much. It's really not gonna be more than thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u208	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Gerapititi, I didn't say it was. I said that democracy doesn't have to go to quarantine. But I'm worried, because you're telling us we have information, but we don't have a comprehensive briefing. Mr. Georgiadis is on average five channels a day. Mr Stavros can't reach this record, it's on average one and a half. At the ERT the day the program "We stay up" was a fifth theme in the news report. Mr Petsa's criticism of what we were saying, without the Greek people listening to what we said, and then in a two-minute period we had the statements by Mr Tsipras, Mrs Gennimatas, Mr K.E., Mr. Mera25. Do you think on the day when the Qualified Opposition makes its main programming statement, a debate on dialogue is a cover, the fifth theme for two and a half minutes? I think a dog that was supposed to be stuck with a coronary was before 'We stay upright'. Watch it, it's not quarantine, but it's in danger. In particular, you have a responsibility for the ERT. Please take the latest five, six ERT news bulletins at 19.30' with 20.30' and tell me if you think it has a pluralist approach and an update of different opinions. I think you will agree that it does not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chakaloto. Mr. Gerapitris also replied that it was for the previous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, please, I would like the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u212	Minister, wait a minute. Why do you want the floor? Should the Parliamentary Representatives speak and speak afterwards?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u213	I want to talk then.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u214	Before you spoke thirty-two minutes, but you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Tsakalotos, I am in this Chamber, as I have said, several years, much more than you, and I have never made a personal designation. You said I've called you a populist.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u216	And for my wife you've done. Not just personal. Forget it! For my family, you have done it, if you remember.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u217	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u218	If I may. I have not made a personal designation for anyone in and out of Parliament. Personal designation I haven't done for anyone. All I have said is that what the governor of the Bank of Greece says comes from his executives. So the executives do the studies and the executives give the studies to the respective governor of the Bank of Greece. So personal designation I've never done. Secondly, you said we were changing the agenda. But I'm sorry, the agenda is the PD. You didn't talk about her at all. The agenda is the law we discuss every time. It's not what anyone wants to say. I have spoken on the agenda, because I remind you that there are resources provided from the cash resources. For days, offshore, on Facebook or on other means, you are talking about cash. I came here and answered you. Thirdly, you said a lack of dialogue. You say that to me? I asked you five questions and you had never answered either written or oral. I gave all the evidence. Since 2016, 2017, 2018, it has been completed in 2019 and you have never responded. I came here and filed all the evidence as requested by the National Representation. I heard Mr. Tsipras mention this, I heard Mrs. Gennimata, I heard Mr. Varoufakis. I came here to give evidence. Who's off the agenda? Me or you? You spoke of forward measures. I'm sorry, do you not realize that every time the measures are in line with the fiscal and cash space that the country has? Does Europe in its communications every 15 days not say that measures in Europe are 1%, 2%, 3%, 3.5%? Everyone here is wrong with budgetary measures? But you were just telling us that other countries are giving a lot of money, now are you telling us that they too are not giving it forward? It can't be one and the other. It is only every time that additional degrees of flexibility and freedom are created, so that each country can make use of them and the current government is making use of them responsibly so that it does not lead the country where you want to drive it in a new memorandum. You talked about the workers. You referred to 800 euros. Is that all 800 euros? It's 800 euros for forty-five days. Do we or do we not have full cover for insurance contributions on the nominal salary? Two. Do we or do we not have tax suspensions for workers? Three. Do we or do we not have a 40% cut in rent for those who have first residence? Four. Do we or do we not have suspensions of their obligations to the banks if the loans are up-to-date? Five. So there is a set of measures to support employment. So is business. But what I have told you - and I saw that you have avoided it today - are specific things about the famous project, which you have. Specific things about insurance suspensions, tax suspensions, ANFAs, SNPs, for what you have affected the previous period. Finally, I did not comment on the European decision and I did not talk about the European ones, because five days ago, I came here, as the parliamentary representatives of all the parties requested - today I see Mr Loverdos here - to come here to discuss Eurogroup in detail. And I did. And I spoke for thirty-five minutes and there was a very nice dialogue with all the parties. I think it is appropriate that every time we develop a subject and exhaust it, start with it, start with middle and end. But since you are causing me, I will answer you for that, what Europe has done and what has not done. First of all, he's made steps forward that hadn't been done before. The general non-existence clause is applied to the limitations of the Stability and Growth Pact. And you will allow me because you are in the Chamber last time, but you are not in the Chamber, I think you at least do not respect the effort made by the Greek Government in all the fora to claim the best for the country. I have never told you whether you spoke or did not speak to the Eurogroup, whether you have expressed theoretically ideological clouds or not. I believe that you have always expressed the country's positions on the Eurogroup and supported you. You in two of your communications have said that we have not spoken to the Eurogroup, when we have spoken, we have claimed and achieved things. I'll tell you one detail you'll understand that it's not a detail. In the Eurogroup that decided not to implement, not to adopt budgetary objectives, the original text mentioned only fiscal rules. We insisted then that there should be a party (,) and have the words 'targets' and'requirements'. Why? Because we did not want to give the right to any country or body in the future to say that 'the country is under enhanced supervision, so it has no rules, it has targets, so stay at 3.5%'. We got it, it's inside the text. I can give you the first text and the second text if you like. As I can give you the states of Eurogroup in December 2019, the day before and the final result that there is a paragraph for the use of ANFAs and SNPs for developmental reasons that did not exist the day before. This paragraph cannot have been planted for the benefit of the country, without the Ministry of Finance, the Greek Government has sought and achieved something. So you will allow me to ask you to be a little more careful in your reports on whether we are talking or not in the Eurogroup. Secondly, the use of ESDP resources and State aid - today we talked about this - was given flexibility to enable us to make more rapid use of Community resources without national involvement. Thirdly, we are participating, after years of exclusion, in the new programme of quantitative relaxation, which is about EUR 12 billion for our country. Fourthly, Greek bonds are accepted as a pledge by the European Central Bank. Fifthly, there was the Eurogroup's decision to provide support measures for the economy of EUR 540 billion. Answer: Is that enough? Oh, no. We need more, we want a more ambitious plan, because the health crisis has more intensity and scope, and that is what we are claiming. That is what we are claiming in all fora, we are clearly, with confidence, gaining levels of flexibility, which were incomprehensible a few months ago, we are talking with solid arguments and not with theoretical, ideological clouds. As the Prime Minister yesterday said, Greece fully supports the urgent establishment of the recovery fund recently decided by the Eurogroup in addition to the operation of the multiannual financial framework. This fund should be very large, financed with whatever type of joint long-term debt instrument becomes, run forwards and focuses primarily on grants to Member States and not on loans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, too. Mr. Loverdos has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. It is a very broad agenda, and it is indeed the subject of reflection on what a parliamentary representative will say. So what should I choose? I choose to start with wishes, many years. I would also like to emphasise and stress that it is in the Chamber that we are now talking about one of our colleagues a few months ago, Dimitris Kremastinos, is in Evangelism and gives the battle for life. He's offended by the coronary. He's been in intensive for many days, giving his personal battle. I'm close to him, we're close to him, and I wish him by heart. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Katrinis, our rapporteur, in committee, has made a truly exemplary effort to present the views of our party on all the articles of the legislative act. I would like to begin with this because, with the criticism he has made and the positive words he has said, he has shown how, but seriously, a responsible opposition, without crowns, without air words, without - and as he expresses me - 'the air is cut off'. I would like to congratulate him, and I would like to invoke this intervention, because it really is an intervention that gives tone and meaning to how the opposition can stand. On this, on the creative tone with which we operate, Mr Minister of Finance, before you come, I had a debate with Mr Tsakalots and Mr Tsiaras on first home auctions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u221	I heard Mr. Chiara's answer. It was clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u222	Mr Chiara's answer to your question brings forth harmonisation. Mr Tsiaras as Minister of Justice told us that once the courts open it is not the issue of auctions first priority. He's coming. It is one of the pre-liminary measures, the issues of forced execution, as matters of the functioning of the courts. That's the title. And you say that you will table a draft law, or rather I will say it as I have heard it, you will take a legislative initiative on this issue, annulling the protection of first residence. These two, it would be good if you had something in mind that is specific, to clarify it to us. Will your legislative intervention be taken these days? Would you give me time? Would you give me an extension? How exactly are you going to settle the matter? Because, as Mr Tsiaras said, everything in force since 1 May, on the basis of the powers of the courts, will come to the agenda as the last item on the matter of the functioning of the courts. Last will be their full function on criminal matters. I have a final rhetorical question. You have today made a presentation that is truly plural. I will study it in order to understand and exactly as you have presented the relevant figures. But, with the numerous interventions that have been made anyway, and the parties and the government have taken initiatives, as far as the support for workers, businesses, Greek society is concerned, the nurses, especially the reference hospitals, is concerned, why do you refuse to write them into the unhealthy professions? I as the Minister of Labour at the time when I was beaten, the nurses of private hospitals - that was my responsibility - had been integrated into unhealthy. With Mr Venizelos, who was then Minister of National Defence, we had made a joint ministerial decision on the nurses of the military hospitals. However, the then Minister of Finance, and all the finance ministers, until Mr Tsakalotos and you today, do not incorporate the nurses and drivers of the EKAB into the unhealthy professions. I'm not saying all the hospital staff. Our amendment refers to a targeted one. We don't do populism here. We say what should be supported and what should not be supported. The nurses are not only worth good words, they are also worth practical support and they have not seen it. Our amendment is very characteristic. I'm not saying you should accept it. I say that you will regulate it on the basis of our amendment. I know the special technical legislative details. But I'm curious that you've left them outside. I repeat, this competence, ladies and gentlemen, is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance and not the Minister of Labour. Another issue I would like to mention. I remember our dialogue in the summer when you had taken some legislative initiatives, for EKA I think, it was the first you took, we told you that the tax advance is a dramatic measure. You did it 95% when you presented the budget. You have also brought legislation in this regard. But, Minister, for now? I, too, am a professional, along with my political concerns. So now, Minister, businessmen, free professionals, all self-employed people need to pay 100% for a financial year where we have not worked for two months so far and for a third. This is a very unfair measure. Our amendment, from 95% to 50%, makes real sense, is about the economy, it concerns society, it concerns us all. Finally, with regard to issues of this nature and content, I have said and congratulated - badly? - and on my own initiative, the travellers joined the protection measures because they don't work. It is a seasonal staff with a very specific form of work - recess, as we say in legal matters - who in many cases, I mean when they do not have another occupation and another source of income, stay on the road. We've been pushed and set up. The Congregation of Music seeks from the Ministry of Labour whether MSD formalities include its own travellers. And while Mr Brutsis has said 'yes' - and I have praised him - the Ministry of Labour responds 'no'. This is a shame in practice. I mean, it's a mockery that has to stop. After all, we say it again and we underline it, the measures sound well when they are announced. But when they specialize, their problems appear. Now I want, Minister, to be general. The whole debate is taking place - and I am watching it with interest - for the next day's economy. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece has succeeded and I hope there is no setback, it has been achieved through the co-operation of a government, of counter-population, of science, of social groups of citizens, and we are in the first positions to tackle the pandemic. But the bill hasn't come. How laudable our effort is appreciated, has not been valued, we are trying to appreciate it. How much he does not only relate to what you gave or did not take, it relates to how we work the next day. Let me say, ladies and gentlemen, that the pandemic is not ending - I hope - and I say it will be interrupted and we are looking forward to a relaunch of the economy. I, even the measures relating to the courts, presented them as a form of relaunching the economy, so I see them positive. Here, then, we need to see something that concerns our next day outside the logic of 'State give' or 'State don't take', because one who proposes many measures in this tone 'State give', 'State don't take', well do and suggest, some specific accusations will have in mind, but that is not how the economy works the next day. And I was sad to see yesterday in "KATHMERINI" the proposals of the Association of Greek Industries, all are "do not take and give". Sit down. Shouldn't every space give its own design? The same applies - not to everyone - to hoteliers who take the public word. What can you give us, what can't you take us? It is right that the economy should be supported, we all agree, in order to remember Vaimari a little while ago in the agreed inflation, looking at things on the Eurozone side, not on the part of the Greek Central Bank or the Ministry of Finance. When you see it as a whole and say we need common efforts, you see it with reasonable money, it's a form of agreed inflation that. Let us see it this way for a while, but every place and every unit of space, a businessman in this area or business sector, is also charged with its own ideas of dealing with the crisis. Minister, all these days that I've really been nervous about the next day in us in the Change Movement, I've tried to decode the Gross Domestic Product and how it is produced. I have difficulties with an exact classification, because we're working with approaches from the National Statistical Authority. I can easily give aggregates, but they are not embodied in what each sector offers. The contribution of domestic food production in terms of focus is impressive. The figures are impressive, the whole Greek society is discussing this, as far as the contribution of tourism to the production of Gross Domestic Product is concerned. However, if we look at these in aggregate numbers and bear in mind that these aggregated figures do not include taxes, they are subsidies less, there are cross-checks of activity. Tourism has employees, workers have social security, contributions. The contributions to the tourism activity, the accommodation or the activity to which the social security system and the administration operates, and in particular the national defence, which form an area of activity? In view of all these difficulties of approach, we expect to see, Mr Minister, and we also expect the relevant ministers to take the floor for the next day by developing the plan. We want to contribute to this debate. Your Minister today, Mr Georgiadis, speaking of the European Investment Bank, said that he would take the initiative to have a debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs, to speak, to be informed and to speak. This must be done by most of your Ministers related to production that are related to the economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u223	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u224	I'll be done. I am aware that each of us every day that comes out of his home produces Gross Domestic Product and at the kiosk, going and I understand what it means not to work for the sake of health, as the Constitution provides and permits. But to understand how you think the next day as a government, not as a Stagiras, the Ministry of Finance, your ministers should start to take the floor, because they "give me a state", "do not take a state" or a mitto of Ariadne within this daring path that we have in front of us, rebooting the economy. Mr President, let me make a reference to an issue on which I have first parliamentary knowledge. The first is the question of vocational training centres. I think Mrs. Gennamas today, compared to Mr. Tsipras, gave the sample of the difference. She criticized, asked for resignations, but her word wasn't one of them. The Chief of Officer's Reconciliation over 2/3 of his speech dedicated them to the subject of CECs. I, Mr President, will close - when the Greek Government took the measure of EUR 800 first, after consulting my personal friend - I am also his constituent - the President of the Athens Bar Association, Mr Vervessos, I went out and said: 'Let lawyers who do not have a second income, lawyers who do not have a lot of income, have to be subject to the corresponding other free professionals. The government, through Mr Georgiadis, said 'yes' and suddenly this is changing and becoming 'no' and training is being carried out and a programme for which we have been unfavourable from the outset. His nature dared you, he took you to something you shouldn't even say. And we ended up where we ended up today. I think that in this incredible story that Mrs Gennamas has said not even, because, as we have been informed - I by the Minister of Development - the NRP is allowing the same amount to be paid without these'mixed procedures', the problem was solved. What is the point of confusing Greek political and social life, of being scandalized, of starting to discuss this again, showing that we are ultimately irresponsible and waiting immediately for the first opportunity to get killed between us? You need to see it, giving an answer that is not "they too have done SYRIZA", giving an answer of yours, what you have done here and in any case who has responsibility. Because many times we say that he has responsibility and someone else really has it. Mr President, thank you very much for your tolerance. I hope it's the last week we've been talking like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u225	We all wish that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u226	I hope that you have made a decision at the Conference of Presidents to enable us to open the procedures...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u227	It'll grow by a while. Slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u228	...on the basis of what the experts, the scientists and the next week tell us to start being more in this Chamber and in the committees' halls. I hope that many years again, we will be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, too, and wish Mr. Kremastin and courage. Mr. Gregoriadis has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u230	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, many years in the first place, many years in the Greek people. You will allow me to begin my speech today by reminding you that at the start of this health crisis we have another great national misfortune to lose Manolis Glezo, a national symbol of ours. I feel the need, starting with my speech today, to remind all of you that on the Great Week, in the week of Paths, we also had the very great misfortune to lose another very important man for the Left, but also for the whole of Greece, Pericles Korovesis, one of the people symbols of the resistance to the diversion of the junta. Now, my dear Mr Stakoura, I will start with you, since you are here - and I am very pleased that you are here - and I will say that I think that you have spoken to the neutral observer for forty-forty-one minutes and you have not said a word - kich would have said - about what Mr Varoufakis had to say to you. You have consumed almost all your speech to answer Mr Tsipras, Mr Tsakaloto. You will allow me to reasonably conclude that it is reasonable for a New Democracy Minister to spend all his time answering Mr Tsipras, Mr SYRIZA or Mr Tsakalotos, because this is extremely easy, because his position is extremely easy. What do I mean? How can Mr Stavura tell you, Mr Syriza or Mr Tsipras or Mr Tsakalotos that you are doing very badly, that you are almost criminal - not to say that you are, of course, criminal - by taking extra loans, meaning a fifth memorandum? Will you answer him reasonably immediately "What have you done? Loan you have received." And you will even be able to answer him "and with a little more interest than what I get". Therefore, it is reasonable to try to answer only to SYRIZA, but here is Parliament of Greece and I will ask you the same questions again, in the hope this time that you will answer them to us in our party. They're reasonable questions, they're simple questions. The first is: Is it or is it not a loan? From now on, will we get or won't we get loans from the ESM, the postmodern ESS, or whatever anyone says? What will happen will be a sharing of the problem in all the Eurozone countries, that is to say, join forces the rich with the poor, so that we can change our credit rating - do you know much better than me what I mean - and have another kind of interest rate? Will this be done or will it be done with a number of camouflages that have been done for so many years, that is to say, lending us and then having us in absolute suffocation, virtual drowning, as Mr Varoufakis said? You know well that this will be done and to prove to you that you all know right in here that this is exactly what will happen, I challenge you and I tell you, from this step here, this. Do you accept to commit yourself, Mr Stakoura, or any other Minister of your Government, or even better, the Prime Minister that this time will not take new measures so that we can return interest from the loan? What will these measures be? I'll tell you I'm not a minister. These measures will be wage and pension cuts, they will be tax increases. I'll be very happy, I'll have a party, a fair, if you commit that next year, you won't take measures like this. You know that you can't do it, because you know that you're going to take measures like this and take them because you've just dismissed the Eurobond, you've deported our veto. You continued to act like exemplary captives and therefore we will get a new loan, which marks the beginning of the fifth memorandum for the country. The second question, my dear Mr Stakoura - and I do not say it scrupulously, I really mean it, you are dear, you are a sympathetic man and knower of the object of your ministry - is what will happen with HARAKLI. Didn't you find a second to answer our Chief for HERAKLE? You know exactly what's gonna happen. In a few days' time the guarantees will be activated and the Greek State will be called upon to pay - I repeat - EUR 12 billion in the predator funds. It's unthinkable that you haven't even told us that we're talking nonsense. Explain, argue, say that won't happen. Say some way out of this. There's no way. You know well that by inactivating another - criminal in my opinion - by inactivating another hour, one day or not, you lose a free way - sorry for the market expression - to save the country from 12 billion while looking to find several million, tens of millions to meet the needs of those who have not already had to eat. And you're gonna donate the predators 12.5 billion dollars? A month and a half we challenge you, we ask you to answer. Answer me. There's nothing we can imagine but what our Chief said, that or some of you, on your side, are involved with the predators or some of those who are involved with the predators, they're keeping you tied up. Answer for that at last. Dear Mr Contozamanis, since you are here, I want to tell you the following. In favoured states the return to normality has a specific way of doing so. Who's that? First of all, in all these so-called favoured states there are thousands, hundreds of thousands, millions of tests. These tests are not done because the other states are hobbards. They happen because, as you know better than me, doing thousands, millions of tests - that is, we should have done two million tests - is the only way to know which part of your population has passed the virus and is now, after fourteen days, immortal to allow him to slowly return to work. This will not completely close the market, our economy will not shut down, but will slowly reactivated. We with fifty thousand tests - I say hear it and the world that listens to us - throughout the country, about 0.5%, have no idea. Let's not fool ourselves, we have no idea if it's over four hundred thousand operators, we have no idea if it's over five hundred thousand operators, we have no idea if it's over seven hundred thousand operators. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do you know what Mr. Petchas said a few days ago, three days ago, actually? I'm reading it to you to understand how worrying you are. He said that the principle - that is to say those who will go back to their jobs - would be made by groups of people who, according to the experts' suggestions, are at least at risk of serious complications. Do you know what we have here, Mr. Contozamani? We have a clear, clear confession that we don't know we're out of line. Although Mera25 was telling us. I've been telling you personally since last Thursday, I've told you that Greece's Hailing Agency has asked you to run a thousand tests a day. And you finally did it ten days after they asked you to. I have informed you that three universities - which I now hear have become four - put their know-how and human resources at your disposal to carry out thousands of tests. But you didn't. You did fifty thousand. And now Mr Brutsi says that those who have fewer chances of dying will return. That's what he says and it's a disgrace! It's a disgrace! So we're going to go to the dolls, to luck, and whoever the grace gets. Because the ages between twenty and forty have less chance of dying, this will be the first team to return to work. That's not the way. Let me tell you this is the Paleolithic way. And there is no doubt that this is your way. He said that three days ago, Mr. Brutsi. As far as the HERAKLE project is concerned, we have been talking about it. It's very worrying. As far as the loans are concerned, we have talked about them. I shall return a little to Mr Stakoura and the co-legislative ministers to say this. Mr Stavura, these famous guarantees which will be activated and made 12 billion, fateful in my mind, automatically compare with this for the people of the show. Overall, Greek actors, whom no one can find in this country, are eleven thousand. How did I find them? I went to the tax office of Greece and asked how many people declare the hypocritical as their only and exclusive occupation. They're eleven thousand. Of the thirty - six thousand other workers as a whole in the spectacle in Greece, 12 thousand are labelists. They'll never get your allowance. Of my eleven thousand colleagues, nine thousand are descriptors. They'll only take it two thousand. So I'm telling you that if we sum up all this money, the twenty-one thousand showmen - who work on the show - who are spared your help, who can't get into your umbrella, do you know what the cost is for everyone and everyone? The cost is 16,800,000 euros to get in too and get 800 euros for a month and a half. They won't live with it forever, but they won't starve, as they tell me on the phone already today. If one compares the fact that you refuse to give 16,800,000 euros and save at least one and a half months of all the people of the show - and I mean sounders, actors, dancers, musicians, organists - but very comfortable let dates flow and get lost so that we can get to guarantees and donate 12 to 12.5 billion to the predators, then either it has infiltrated absolute paranoia or there is something very dark. It's impossible to avoid a couple. This is 'fly'. When we talk about state spending, 16,800,000 euros are costs that remind us of paper markets for public services. It's a comedian, and I'll highlight the tragic, and I'll suffer the comedian. Now, as far as SYRIZA's partners, the vouches and all that, I'm sorry to say so raw, but it's of no importance. You're going to tell me: 'Well, no?' Yeah. The government did, as is customary, act unworthy of our scientists. Yeah. The government has also, as usual, attempted to share these millions in 'logues'. This isn't the first time. They have done so too many governments. Anyway, it's true. However, the matter here cannot be today, when the universe falls apart and when the half Greek people are hungry in six months, the rest of the half will be hungry, because they are a drop in the ocean. Unethical, but a drop in the ocean. As far as SYRIZA is concerned, in our view, Mr Zachariadis, is it: if you were to rule today, would Alexis Tsipras veto the European Union be vetoed? And because you are not ruling today and it is easy to answer that 'light - light, surely it would', I tell you that we have strong reservations about whether it would exercise, why then, as our Chief said, why did he not exercise? The veto didn't fall out of the sky today. There was also in 2014. Let me remind you - you know better than I do - that Mr Varoufakis, while he was negotiating, has exercised about sixty veto times. Every time he went to Eurogroup he was vetoing. Otherwise, we would have disappeared from the first week of negotiation. He showed 'tooth'. We have 'tooths', you have 'tooths', so do the Spaniards, who leave them unused and borrowed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u231	I remind you of the 80 billion... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u232	Dear Mr Stakoura, this is a very liquid amount. It starts from 7 to 200 billion. They almost told us it was Mr. Varoufakis' coronary. But the hungry Greek people don't eat these. Since you are a professor of economics, let me tell you that the new loans you take so lightly of heart mean overthrowing the ratio of our Gross National Product in terms of lending the country. From 176% that is today, with the "wonderful" loans you are ready to get, you will, according to our calculations, go to 220% - 225%. And that will make our credit rating even smaller. And this will lead to a new vicious circle, one of those vicious circles that have "done faith" us for ten years. And I am above the poverty line. See how they've "gained faith" for ten years to those who live below the poverty line, to those who have no milk for their children. I will close with one last, which is certainly of less political importance, but allow me to say that it is of enormous importance. I imagine in this Chamber we have noticed the wonderful word "democracy" as a cataclyst in all the videos "We stay at home" that you have produced. Apart from that, we have all read the phrase "Greek Republic". Do you really find any other reason out of the vote to mention the word 'government'? It's tragic and turns us decades back. Can you imagine there's a viewer who suspects that the country is not governed? When I see or any other viewer the word "Greek Republic" does not automatically imagine that this is the government of the country, that this "Greek Republic" goes on its own as a boat without captain? So this damn word "government" is a word that goes in there to remind each recipient every time of the thousands that we see it not the Hellenic Republic, it is the Government of the New Democracy that is a charitable and that makes "we live at home". So why - and I close with this, Mr President - do you not write directly instead of 'New Democracy'? Instead of ‘Greek Republic’, ‘New Democracy’? Or better yet, why don't you write "Kyriakos Mitsotakis", let's get it over with? Thank you very much for your patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, too. Mr. Apostolos Vésiropoulos has the floor. Mr. Secretary, you ask me for six minutes, I give you eight. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to wish, in my turn, many years to everyone, in health. The House is now called upon to ratify another act of legislation which tackles the exceptional circumstances created by pandemic at the economic and social level. As I have been given many times to say, populism is a bad consultant in dealing with the consequences of pandemic on the economy. The Greek society has demonstrated maturity and responsibility, which should be a model of behaviour for the whole of our political system. There's only one way, the way of responsibility. This is the way forward in the collective effort to relaunch economic activity. After all, the Prime Minister and the government in the face of the pandemic have taken the responsibility, so that our country has become a model for its worldwide performance. The Legislative Act of 30 March 2020 entitled ‘Action measures for the COVID pandemic – 19 and other emergency provisions’ includes measures to support the real economy, business and workers. Our interventions are constantly being updated. Improvements are constantly being made, but also new institutional initiatives with a social dimension, such as the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Finance, to which I shall refer at the end of my speech. Our aim is to enable businesses and natural persons to return to normality and, in particular, to facilitate their fulfilment of their obligations towards the State. In this sense, the first article of the Act of Legislative content, which establishes a 25% discount of the instalments of the accredited tax debts, with the date of payment from 30-3-2020 to 30-4-202020. This is a beneficial measure, which concerns those undertakings which have been financially affected by the emergence and dissemination of the COVID -19 coronary, the employees of those undertakings whose contracts of employment are suspended, and the natural persons who hire property in those undertakings. Excluded are VAT and non-regulated debts, as well as debts arising from State aid recovery and debts in favour of a foreign State. Moreover, the orderly functioning of the market and business is intended to set aside for seventy-five days, i.e. until 31 May 2020, the deadlines for closing, displaying and paying cheques and securities to banks. The regulation concerns those undertakings that are part of the activity codes and have suspended their activity by a State mandate or have been severely affected by the coronary epidemic. It also includes those enterprises that have been included in the table in April with the firms affected. Supporting the necessary liquidity for enterprises is also the provision for the repayable advance, which is irresponsible and tax-free, and is not offset by other debts. In addition, a joint ministerial decision setting the beneficiaries of the aid, the conditions for granting and repayment of the repayable advance will also be laid down and adopted immediately. As I said before, the government is fully aware of the difficulties faced by citizens and businesses, and our pursuit is to make it easier for them to fulfil their obligations towards the state. For this reason, the legislative act called on the House to ratify includes the suspension for three months of the time limits for conducting procedural and other acts. Also, a three-month suspension for payment of the instalments of active extrajudicial arrangements for debtors who prove to be affected by the consequences of the pandemic, but also for those who joined Law 4605/2019 for the protection of the first residence, as well as the Katseli Act. At the same time, a suspension of the notification of provisional and final amending acts should be provided for by 30 April 2020. At the same time, a suspension shall be granted until 31 May 2020 of the time limits for the submission by the taxpayer of objections or opinions relating to the provisional fixing of a tax or a fine. There is also a suspension for a period of sixty days of the time-limits for bringing actions and applications for temporary suspension which have expired or expired from 11-3-2020 to 31-5-2020. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider it very important that the provision contained in the act of legislation on the granting procedure is included. It follows from the government's institutional intervention to exempt goods and services used under a donation contract with the State. This intervention had taken place in unsuspecting time and before the pandemic took place. The aim was to facilitate the granting process, particularly to the public health and welfare structures, which are at the forefront of the battle that our country is currently giving. Our legislative initiative to exempt goods and services used under a donation contract with the public has had a positive effect, as the number of donations has increased, which has also contributed to the successful efforts of the state mechanism to tackle the pandemic. With this article in the Act of Legislative content of 30 March 2020 we are even improving the framework of donations to public health structures, since the granting of the VAT exemption will no longer require approval by the Minister of Finance, but will suffice to notify these donations to the Ministry of Finance. In conclusion, I should like to refer to the amendment with a general number 274 and a special number 44 tabled by the Ministry of Finance, which consists of four articles and faces problems. The first article recommends a social intervention, as it provides for a 40% reduction in student rents in cities and areas away from the place of their permanent residence. This reduction concerns students who are regarded as dependent children of workers in affected enterprises whose employment contracts have been suspended. The second article of the amendment tabled extends the framework for the granting of specific financial assistance of EUR 800 in order to now cover firms employing up to 20 workers, rather than up to five that has been in place so far. The measure concerns individual undertakings, including free professionals and self-employed persons, as well as undertakings in the form of AE, EU, EIA and IE. Furthermore, Article 3 of the amendment aims to cover the staffing posts opened to the Independent Public Revenue Authority, with a view to the increased needs of Brexit. In this respect, it is possible to cover AACC's organic posts by officials with employment relationships with private law indefinitely in the event of the non-fulfilment of these posts by officials. Finally, the fourth article of the amendment provides for a two-month extension until 25 June 2020 for the collection by the customs authorities of excise duty, VAT and other charges for alcoholic beverages which came out of the suspension regime in March 2020. A corresponding extension up to 25 July 2020 shall be granted for the same product group leaving the suspension regime in April 2020. I would like to believe that all the articles of the act of legislative content, but also the content of this amendment, will be supported by all the political forces, as they are faced with real problems. Ladies and gentlemen, the country in a few days' time will come out of this trial, gradually removing the restrictive measures. We are coming out of this test with the fewer losses, having managed to deal with the dispersion of the coronary. The battle against the coronary is won, but it's not over yet. It requires constant vigilance from everyone. But at the same time, a new battle begins, that of restarting the Greek economy. And in order to win this battle, we also need a plan, determination, truth and trust. The government and the Prime Minister, Mrs Mitsotakis, have these weapons. Our most valuable weapon, however, is a strong relationship of trust between the citizens and the government and, above all, personally with the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, too. I will give the floor to the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Constantine Heta. It is a good request, Mr Pylakakis, that Mr Lebanese also speak to close the circle with the parliamentary representatives and then you take the floor. Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. Jesus Christ Resurrection! Happy birthday to all Greeks and all Greek women. Today, ladies and gentlemen, I am of course addressing both Greek women and Greeks, a new expression, a new terminology. The Greek Parliament has been born many times. We had previously learned about 'creative ambiguity', later we baptized the troika's 'institutions'. Generally, we play with words. Today we have heard about the failure of the system. I would very much like - and finally it was wrong that I did not speak earlier - to have Mr Gerapetitris here, who today represented the Prime Minister and the Government of New Democracy, who spoke to us about a'system failure'. That's how he characterized this scandal that went with the vouches and the 190 million. About 190 million, so much was played on the table upstairs, about which the spokesman of Mera25 said it's a drop in the ocean. That is not a sum of 190 million. And since the Treasury Department's all over here, I think you're all gonna say it's a very big amount of 190 million. We came here today and instead of seeing a resignation, instead of seeing an apology, instead of taking responsibility, you tell us that it was a mistake, something, you tell us that it was a'system failure'. Just know that this is how we cause the world and we spoil the face of Parliament. So, then, the world that sees us is not unjustified and says what it says about us. Because it was really a mockery. I said it before, I'll say it now. Although we live a time when most Greeks wear masks to protect themselves from the pandemic, you should know that the smell of the scandal of what went to be done was very intense and passed through the masks. Or the Prime Minister didn't know, as he was right to say, or he knew. In both cases, however, the Minister is unambiguous. I asked Mr Brutsi earlier. He didn't answer us. He said to me, 'We talked about it yesterday'. Today there is a plenary, it was here, all Greek women and all Greeks could hear the Minister's answer. We're talking about a total butt, ladies and gentlemen, by the government's ultimate state. I will go back to 2004 and borrow an expression - it is not mine - from the then Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy, Mr Karamanlis, who had spoken of 'pimps'. So I am going to resurrect this expression today and say that once again it is shown that there are pimps in Greece. They are the "pimps" of the media, they are the "pimps" in education, they are the "pimps" in the economy. Unfortunately, we are concerned to remind the world that there are such things as these. I'm asking you again: Will anyone quit? No one's answering us. For a horror scandal that went to be done, no one talks, and today we're all going out rather hugged. I'm going to another thing quickly. I'm going to the health bombs, to the hot spots. This issue bears the stamp, is works and days of Mr. Mitarakis. It also comes out of a satisfaction and a happiness of Mr. Metarakis. I do not know where this satisfaction comes from the work that he has done and what we have been living for the past few years. Because we're talking about health bombs. Do you know what doctors say? I'm not talking about it. They're not my thoughts, expressions or opinions. They say there's not only COVID -19. They have brought more diseases from the sub-Saharan countries. Ask the doctors. They have brought tuberculosis, various viruses, such as the Western Nile, malaria, and they go by saying. Unfortunately, thousands of those of whom you still call refugees come from five thousand miles away from our country. And you see in the Skull - and not just - being trampled and seeing the consequences. I would also like to say to Mr Metarakis, who at some point appeared today and is pleased with his work, that what you are going to do is a bomb for our tourism. You're putting a bomb on its foundations anyway because of pandemic, tourism. And where we have received the 'bravo' from all of us, we say that we can win the tourism bet, because all the countries, Spain, Italy, Turkey, the neighbouring countries that could steal from us are seized by the pandemic - we have illegal immigrants turning right and left and collecting straight-to-hand new cases. That's Mr. Metarakis' diffusion plan. And they have a huge responsibility for the 'blue mayors' who have been engaged in resilience in the last 24 hours - I am talking about the Mayor of Chios, and not only - who were at first concerned, and now - I do not know what has suddenly changed - they are very satisfied. I am going to something else, ladies and gentlemen - and again, of course, to the Government of New Democracy - because we come out of a very important week for Christianity, for Orthodoxy, Saint Easter, where the Greeks lived under very strange and suffocating conditions, for us, without bells, without functions, without loudspeakers, because we were afraid not to spread the flu virus from there. And I ask, why have we put it many times: Today, 24 of the month, when the Ramadan begins, will you be as tough as you? Because today is the rain of complaints and videos, that the hobbie or imam or whatever you want to say, in various cities in Greece - Xanthi, Komotini - sounds like the decibels in the foul to invite the believers to pray in Ramadan. That's where I don't see a closed speaker. There's probably the sound of the hojah that's got a potion, and it's not the coronary. Let's talk about this from here, so the Greeks can hear it. And I'll see you from here, because it's the only way, Mr. Government ministers, to express ourselves. We were talking about the state at last, talking about ERT. To intervene, SYRIZA and Tsakalotus said to make ERT more democratic. He had fourth news, he says, SYRIZA. Well, are you talking about the news show? There's nowhere to be found here. We do not even have the agenda, not the ERT, in general the television stations. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Greek Solution with our President, Mr. Velopoulos, has tabled a proposal for a committee of inquiry into the Prespecies Agreement, so that it can all come to light. I answer the question - I have received many questions - why did you do it now and you are late? Because now the revised Constitution gives us the right to make use of that right. And that is why we are the first party to make use of this right. With ten MPs, you can table a proposal for a committee of inquiry. We have therefore tabled this proposal on an issue which is extremely important, on a subject with which the Greek Government of the New Democracy has taken a decision, on an issue with which it has tried to strike us as a pretext for bringing all the benefits of the Macedonian issue and the shameful Ambassadors' agreement. We have been shouting since July and now we are doing so. So, with the setting up of the committee of inquiry, the responsibilities for all those who have brought this unacceptable agreement, Mr Kotzias and all of Mr Tsipras's, Mr Kammenos's and that of the coup d'état at that time. Come on, let's do it now. We challenge the New Democracy. Here's Rhodes, behold, and fuck! We have tabled a request for a committee of inquiry. We want a hundred 20 MPs. We're ten. Come on, you too. Come on, to prove that you are indeed being cut for Macedonia and that you were honest at the time when you haggled votes with the unsuspecting Greek citizens. I shall also inform you that we have sent today - the Greek Solution - a letter to the President of Parliament - from the Holy Step of the House, because it is the only way to communicate with the world - to meet the Committee on Institutions and Transparency on an exceptional basis and to invite the President of the PSE, the National Broadcasting Council, Mr Kutrumans, to ensure the proportionate presence of the parties in the media, because we cannot be permanently humiliated, we cannot be in a democratic country anywhere, at any television station to talk. It's unacceptable! And I am closing with something last - and thank you for the time, Mr President - to put things in place too. And now, I'm calling all the trolls, I'm calling all the superintendents, I'm calling on all Hitler's nostalgic and Nazis, I'm calling on all the volunteers, I'm calling on all these very good people to put the videos on and play what I'm going to say here. So I will say that the Greek Solution said no to vaccination. The Greek solution to the vaccination article voted 'no'. No more mocking, no more specs, no more trolls! You managed to confuse some of the voters and people. Know that the light always beats the darkness. It was a new, organized plan against the Greek Solution. We are also planted and put on a programme - and we have been calling it for so many years - against mass vaccinations. So we said, not in vaccination. Again, we said no to vaccination! I'm saying this clearly, because I know that the Greeks of these nazi ungrateful nostalgics are not very well. They know better than to moan. So I say it to stop all lies. The Greek Solution says no and voted "no" in mass vaccinations and you can now hide your holes again!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u237	Thank you very much. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr. Spilios Lebanese has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u238	Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin my speech today by addressing a "thank you" to the head of the Ministry of Health, among other things, on the sensitivity that he has shown to the issue of the exceptional import into Greece from the United States of the Zolgensma gene drug, if I say so correctly. This medicine is all that can give hope to little Elijah - Stelios - Savva, which is ten months old and to four more small angels suffering from spinal muscle atrophy type 1. It's the same condition that we met from little Panagiotis - Rafael last year. The only ten months-old fighter of life is in serious condition today at the Ryu University's intensive hospital. Thank you, in this House, on behalf of its parents, for the head of the Ministry of Health, with the request not to delay, to speed up the procedures so that this medicine can come to our country as soon as possible. It is, as we all understand, a very important parameter. Fortunately, Mr Zachariadis entered the Chamber, because I thought SYRIZA abandoned parliamentary dialogue. You're alone, Mr. Zachariadis, but you're good and enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u239	They think I'm sufficient from my party, Mr. Lebanon. They trust me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u240	That's what I'm saying. You're good and they trust you. So your Chief, Mr. Tsipras, claimed a moment ago here that, since Mr. Stournaras predicted a downturn of 4%, for what is more than that - and he smiled at Sardonia - Mitsotakis will be responsible. He didn't tell us how and why, but that, I imagine, will be the next episode. He'll think about it next week and explain it to us. In any case, this claim, conveying it, is not just a leg. He's childish, popular and unscientific. A provision, expressed in a moment of alpha, of whomever it is, does not apply for any period thereafter. Therefore, because we do not know how long the crisis will last, we cannot know - neither we, nor Mr Stournaras, nor anyone - what the outcome and its impact on GDP will be. The second thing I would like to say is that when someone does, an agency or a person prediction, she does not rely on a digit. It rests, as Mr Tsakalotos would say, on a range of numbers. So the range of figures given by the Bank of Greece, Mr Stournaras, is from 4% to 8%. In any case, it would be a good thing if you did not make fun of the Greek people, to get serious about these issues. He also said Mr Chakalotos that today is the worst ERT he's ever seen. Obviously Mr Chakalotos was away for many years abroad, and when he was here, he did not follow ERT much. No one says that today ERT is BBC. But it is a well-increased television and with much better programs, which many more can watch. I will simply remind him - wherever he is now - without wanting to cause depression, that during the days when he was Minister, the famous Mr. Akrivopoulou and her good friend Mr. Kasiochas were at ERT. He's the one who's threatened us to get accountable when they get back to power. With regard to cash and to the pillow, which is Mr Tsakalotou and Mr SYRIZA, I do not dare to speak, because I think that Mr Stagioras has taken it out of the way, and everyone will be after me because he has spoken for a long time. We have heard the President and the SYRIZA rapporteur, if I am not mistaken, influenced by both the holy days of Easter, ask us dozens of times to repent about our decisions and our policy during the crisis. We all probably understand that they are regrettable for their momentum towards atheism and, slowly, they are doing their utmost to their supernatural concerns, apart from economic and political concerns. At the same time, threats began. Not to think - it says - and not to dare to pursue this policy, because we will find them in front of us. These designations, together with Mr Haritsis's statements that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is a dangerous mix of unscrupulous cynicism and tragic incompetence, prove once again that SYRIZA is out of reality. This is how it is understood, because SYRIZA has just come out of the radar of citizens' attention, because it is being punished in public opinion investigations and because it is slowly changing its policy again and returning to the only way he knows how to plunder, on the path of populism, tension, the irresponsible accusations, that is, all for which the Greek people have condemned you, condemns you every day and will crush you in the elections of 2023. Mrs Gennimatas and Mr Chakalotos also called on the Prime Minister to be a protagonist and not to be absent from developments in Europe. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time that a Greek Prime Minister is a true protagonist. With its seriousness, its credibility is not just part of it, but practically it combines developments in Europe. We are asking for a lot and we are optimistic that we will be able to get enough. Because we have stability, efficiency, strong alliances - which you do not understand there in SYRIZA - but also good arguments not only for Greece but also for Europe itself. KINAL's rapporteur and Mr Tsipras also invited us for reversed democracy. And they expressed fear, saying that the coronary can lead us to a "disabled" democracy. We all share this concern, and we all agreed here in Parliament that Parliament should remain open, that our democracy should function through parliamentary control. However, the publication of MFFs is necessary. As are ministerial decisions, about three hundred, which have emerged, are also necessary. For these decisions, we are judged both in and out of this Chamber every day. We are accountable to the House, and we are judged by the citizens and history. In this context, the Prime Minister, apart from his ministers who are always here to answer, will be in the House to answer these questions raised by Mr Tsipras and the whole economic policy in the next week's debate - if I am not mistaken next Thursday - on the basis of Rule 142a. So it will be here to answer you, apart from everyone else, for the famous history of the CECs, which you are criticizing and threatening us. You've made this story your flag. There alone is now the shallow opposition you are making. Mr Tsipras spent about three quarters of his speech here today with just references to this story, highlighting precisely the poverty of the arguments and the lack of proposals that his party has. He also used hard and impatient hiking expressions. But they do not characterize either the government or the New Democracy. They characterize him. What really happened? In zero years the government has taken immediate measures, protecting jobs, businesses and especially the weakest of our fellow citizens. Is everything all right and perfect? No, I'll answer you honestly. There were failures. There were mistakes. I say this in order to hear it and to enjoy the representative of the Greek Solution. Obviously, the question of the vouchers of scientists was wrong. But this is the big difference between the Mitsotakis Government and the New Democracy party from all the other governments that have passed from this place and the other parties. We recognise our mistakes and correct them immediately. Only anyone who doesn't dare, anyone who doesn't fight, doesn't make mistakes. And only whoever's a coward doesn't know how to recognize them. This government has never claimed and will never claim the infallibility of the Pope. When he found that this teletraining programme did not respond, he abolished it. And, as far as I know, no euro has been disbursed. Of course, the European nota, which Mr Tsipras tabled a moment ago, came after the start of this programme, not before, to know about the leverage. But you, the representatives of the Officerial Representation who have actually found a reason to exist through it, to see what you did when you were ruling. So why don't you answer the questions that Mr. Brutsis asked you yesterday? Why are you hiding? Wasn't the government of SYRIZA that gave 200 million in the three years 2016-2019? He gave 49.5 million to 30-1-2019 and 31 million to 10-4-2019 and 49 million just before the elections on 10-6-2019? Were the same KEKs not working at the Ministry when Ms. Ahtsoglou was at the Ministry? So why are you quiet? Why are you hiding from the unscrupulous screams? We have a clear view to bring everything to light. And the Minister said it and I repeat it to you today. No objections. But we'll get it all. You'll come and answer for Mrs. Kaliki if you remember her with the complaints she made when she resigned. You're hitting Mr. Brutsi to fill your empty political speech. The Minister - as the government representative has said - enjoys the Prime Minister's confidence and will continue to offer, as he has done today, with his two amendments to support the weak wings of the Greek people. You're shouting for the first place. We have assured you again in this Chamber and in addition to ensuring that the housing is protected for those who really need it. We're fighting it with the institutions. And before the end of the month, the government's measures on this matter will be announced. I would remind you, however, that it is the Government of the New Democracy, which negotiated very hard with Europe, to extend the deadline for the first residence at the end of April, while, on the contrary, it was you, SYRIZA, who had closed this issue last December. I mean, from January 1st, they would be - if it were SYRIZA in power - these auctions. So don't pretend any more. Mr Velopoulos tabled a proposal for a Committee of Inquiry into the Prespes. I would like to say once again - I have said so many times - that ratification of international treaties is a very serious matter. That's why New Democracy, when it was in Opposition, did everything. He warned, struggled to prevent the Prespecies Agreement from being ratified. The then parliament and the majority of SYRIZA proudly decided differently. The deal's ratified. It has already produced legal and political results and is binding on our country. In addition to this commitment, the request for a committee of inquiry on this matter is incomplete as it does not change legislation. For all these reasons, in addition to the majority required under Rule 68 of the Constitution and Rule 144 of the Rules of Procedure, this proposal will not be accepted. However, I am very pleased - as the representative of your party has said - that you and the rest of the opposition have so quickly discovered that the constitutional changes we have made have been in the right direction and have the potential to use them. Mr Koutsoubas, the Secretary-General of the JRC, has insulted us, invited the Minister for Education because he brings a bill, because he has taken it out in consultation. First of all, I would like to say that this is extreme. That's what the government has to do. He's trying to rule. We are slowly overcoming the issues of the coronary and entering a more normal legacy. Obviously there will be a debate, obviously there will be differences in ideological, political and so forth, and obviously all that helps to have a democratic state. There's a lot of this bill. Its basic elements, for which we are proud to bring them in and to support them in here and not withdraw them, are the reintroduction of standards and experimental and evaluation. You may disagree with all this, but that is why our parliamentary democracy is strong, to discuss it. However, we would expect a good comment for the Ministry of Education, at least for his efforts these days, on the way in which he dealt with "telepathy", if I may be allowed to express himself, and in time he was able to find other effective forms of education. As far as the pan-Hellenics are concerned, do not give up on us for that. You know very well that it becomes an absolute effort to get as fast as possible even in the possible framework of days that were scheduled. In any case, however, decisions and communications will not be made in advance of what experts will tell us. So this government gained credibility, listening to experts and listening to those who know better than us what to do about the measures. In conclusion, I would like to highlight Mr Chiodra's fears once again. He expressed them yesterday in his announcement. We've obviously won battles in this story with the coronary, but the war hasn't won. All of us, the parties, the MPs every day must convince us both in our words and in our actions - how we listen to the measures and how we are consistent with them - the citizens to continue this struggle they have taken, the successful struggle to completely eradicate this curve of cases. To continue, that is, from our home, all to protect others and to protect ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u242	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u243	Mr. Heta, you'll get the floor in a minute. Let me say you're right, Mr. Levane. It's the third time, Mr. Marcopoulou. You are right, a letter from the President of Parliament has been sent to the leaders of the parties, and Mr Gerapeititis said, according to Rule 142a, we will have parliamentary scrutiny at 10.00 p.m. next Thursday. The details will be discussed on Tuesday at the Conference of Presidents. Mr. Heta, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u244	I guess I'll really start worrying about what I'm saying. The proposal tabled today by the Greek Solution for a Committee of Inquiry into the Prespecies Agreement, Mr Levane, representing the Government, you said to us that you did not accept it. We had no doubt, believe me, that you would accept the request, because we are simply ruining your mayonnaise and ruining your plans. You just don't want to know? The deal, you say, is not annulled. In fact, it has been broken dozens of times by the Skopje even when we're talking. Let's go below, it's not canceled by the New Democracy Government. Tell me a little, don't you want the Macedonians, the Greeks, what happened at the time? Why would that study close this up? To know the world, which you, too, described as the imminent agreement that was coming treasonal? Don't you want to know what's been "played"? This is the co-pilot of the then government, talking about bags with money, soros, deals, and a thousand two. You don't want to know about the Greek people, the Macedonians, who you deceived politically to guard their vote, what happened? Leave it now if cancelled or not cancelled. We ask for a committee of inquiry, and if you have the political balls to say yes, to find out what was "played" then and you went to close the issue - an issue which has been afflicted you, a box came to you and left the bomb over your hands. Listen, Mr Levane, you are a politician and the Government of New Democracy, and you can speak politically or try to mock the Greek people, but you will not make it for us. It is also another success of the Greek Solution that we have achieved today, which you represent Mr Mitsotakis as Parliamentary Representative, to tell us that - it was heard for the first time - it was wrong, so what Mr Brutsis did because we were hearing about failures. Yeah, well, you told us it was wrong. Good, we won something today. But I'm saying, come with me. You were saying treachery about the deal. Isn't it canceled? In fact, we need to know what happened. Aren't you nervous? You blamed them then. We even now. Let's see what happened. The Macedonians who voted for you are waiting to hear what happened. They heard about bags of money, they heard things like that. So we're giving you all. Raise the glove and give us a hundred ten votes because we're only ten now. The next time we're above, we'll talk differently.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u246	Now that's how we're gonna get it? Mr. Skolakis is also patiently awaiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u247	Just a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u248	You have the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u249	I mean that the New Democracy has never said, we repeat it outside and in this Chamber, that this agreement, which we fought against, was a betrayal one. That's what you might have said. We haven't said that, though. What did we say? That she was wrong, that she was bad for Greek interests and unbelievable. The Greek people know very well, dear colleague, what happened. I think it was also expressed in the elections. A piece of his expression came from this deal. We have a very clear anxiety that you have asked me, our prolongation, the government itself in Macedonia, but at the same time we have a great concern for the future of the Greek people, for the seriousness in politics, and we have no agony for our political life to relapse in gossip and outside politics.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u250	Thank you very much, Mr Levane.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u251	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u252	Please, you've said it. What else can you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u253	The theme of Macedonia is gossip and misguided? Mr. Lebanon, please very much. Are you talking to the Greek people and saying that the issue of Macedonia, which the Skopje have named, is gossip and misguided? Is that what you're saying? What can I say? You're judging.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u254	Thank you. Mr Skakakis, State Secretary for Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to speak briefly on the financial framework within which this legislative act is moving. As we all know, we are experiencing a very great crisis that has started as a health crisis and will certainly continue for a few months as an economic crisis. During this economic crisis it is very important that we all keep our cool and, above all, the government, our calmness, and that we do not go far enough in terms of predictions or policy proposals. We must go as a country in a thin red line that, on the one hand, we need to support society, productive fabric, jobs especially in this acute phase, and on the other hand, we need to maintain the position of the Greek economy towards international players: markets, institutions, European partners. So we must go between these two needs. Because the country, markets, debt, the need for investment will exist not only this year, but also in 2021 and 2022 and 2023 and 2024. That is why all our economic strategy in this acute phase of the crisis is based on two principles. One is coolness and calm and our attempt to build credibility, and the second is gradual adaptation, as we know as much as the weather is going through both the health crisis and the coronary, and when we will be dealing with what protocols, which are behaviours and the economic aspect of this problem. I will give you an example that is in the context of today's MFF, which concerns the repayable advance. The repayable advance is based - and the algorithms to be used in the next few days - on how much business turnover is falling last March. We should, however, come back and see what happens in April and May and have a second cycle, precisely so that we can help businesses in the light of the real damage they have suffered. This information we do not have today and we could not have it, because April or May are not finished. It is therefore a great mistake to make a policy and to spend a lot of money on the Greek taxpayer without having the right information. And there it is for me one of the two fundamental mistakes that the proposal of the Officership is currently being made. It wants us to spend all our money without information, without security for what will happen both in the health field and what has happened in the reality of the economy. We prefer this gradual course, precisely because it is rational. Because when you gradually have more and more information, you have to adjust the way you spend the money on the information that is becoming richer and more and more dense. I am going to the second topic, which is very critical in this period, and it is credibility. I would like here to inform you on the question of reliability that the budget finally ended with a primary surplus of 3.50%. Now you're gonna tell me that 3.50% is a little weird. And indeed, we hadn't planned - to tell you my sin - 3,50%. We had left some space for the event that there would have been some statistical adjustment from some act that could have been made by Census and had not been taken into account. And indeed, this has actually happened. In other words, ELSTAT came to us and made us a correction of the five hundred million level because of a provision that was passed by the government at the time, and today Accountable Opposition of elections to the LEPETE, which Elstat considered as an insurance fund - and so did EUROSTAT - and because of this provision, we have had five hundred million statistical adjustments. And he came and came back from around 3.70%, which was our design, and he sat right at 3.50%. In any case, 3.50% preserves this country's credibility. Think if we fell under the target. And credibility is key to the next phase. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u256	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u257	The credibility is also very important with regard to the question of the guarantees we give. He said here: 'HERAKLIS'. HERAKLIS is a programme that has been dealt with very positively by Europe, it has walked well so far. We have not yet arrived to give the guarantees, because it has one route, but it will come. We have not planned that these guarantees will be suppressed and they will not be suppressed. Our course is a course of seriousness and measure. To make a comparison, however, I cannot resist the temptation not to recall that the public property has in the past suffered overwhelming blows, as happened in the first part of 2015, when the value of the portfolio that the Greek State had in shares was destroyed. I would remind the representatives of Mera25 that, when they talk about the guarantees of the "HRAKLE" that may be lost, they should consider the shares that were actually lost and destroyed because of the capital controls. That and SYRIZA should keep it in mind. Finally, I will make a comment in relation to what Mr Loverdes asked, what is going to happen with heavy and unhealthy staff in general? Heavy and unhealthy on the basis of a decision to commemorate the previous government is examined by a committee which will finish its work on 30 June. We intend to discuss this issue with the trade unions, and we will certainly also consider the experience of COVID -19 before we reach final decisions on heavy and unhealthy. Because COVID -19 revealed a lot about how people operate in public and especially in the National Health System. Finally, pandemics have a characteristic that we should have in mind: they once end. And I think she'll end sooner rather than later. And the psychological liberation that creates their end, as well as the oppression that people feel during this pandemic guarantee a very dynamic recovery next year. This must have our minds, but until we get there, we must cool down, with soundness, modesty, with moderation to go and ensure the economy and the financial credibility of the country in this difficult period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, too. And we will close the Parliamentary Representatives with Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos from the Communist Party of Greece and thank him very much for the two concessions he made. Until the space is cleared, I should like to inform the political leaders that they have spoken for over and twice a year. The rapporteurs have no right to speak. Because I'm in my best because it's Thursday today, I'll give you a minute strict and give me your word, Mr. Catarini. Or there won't be another time. You should know that. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u259	It has six amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u260	I understand, but you're not pulling the ear of the Bureau. You'll be pulling the ear of your Chiefs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u261	Not our leaders, the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u262	And the government. I agree, Mr. Zachariadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u263	... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u264	Mr. Marcopoulou, ready for the fuse. In front of you, light it. Come on, Mr. Karathanasopus.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, we have gone into the full at a time when the bourgeois agony of the bourgeoisie is culminating in the upcoming capitalist crisis, an accelerator of which has been the epidemic of the coronary, a crisis that, as all the estimates say, will be very long and deep, but also to an extent greater than that of 2008, the global capitalist crisis. This is enough, to break down as a paper tower, the myth of sustainable and eternal development, for which some people were speaking from here, from this Seed, which is today either in the government or in the opposition - for the next period after the Memorandums came out. And because this is not the first time that a capitalist crisis has erupted, it is useful to draw some conclusions from the course of the capitalist crises: To conclude, first, that crises have been and have been in the past today - we will not escape this rule - a lever to worsen the position of workers, they have been a means of concentrating and concentrating economic activity on less and less hands. And the anti-tank measures, which are taken, are not of a temporary nature. That is the second conclusion. If it were temporary, then you must answer us: why did the Memorandum Acts forming a trade union jungle regime, while the memorandums have typically been finished - and then they have also been temporary, as the governments in question said either of the PASOK, of the New Democracy or of SYRIZA - remain in force today? And, of course, the memorial laws remain in force, but also the ones who came on account of the horn pandemic, because they were devastated desires and demands of employers' organizations. And indeed, today all these employers' organisations, from BSE to SETE, have been in the bars, saying that the reforms of the previous period should not be taken into account, but also those that are being implemented. Why do they want to preserve all these laws that demolish labour rights? Because this is how the profitability of business groups is shielded in conditions of intensity of competition. This very capitalist competition is also the millstones in which any labour rights are crushed. Conclusion third. Crisis has always created the preconditions to deepen the conflicts between the major imperialist centres, precisely because the given power correlation and the previous crisis of 2008 has led to the exacerbation of the conflicts between the United States and China, between the United States of America and Russia, but also between the United States of America and the European Union. The trade war is known with the various duties imposed. The technological war between the technological colossians is known for who will put his seal on 5G. A number of controversies are known, which also take dangerous features of who will take advantage of the wealthy sources, but also of the energy pipelines. At European Union level, does every crisis increasingly strengthen centrifugal tendencies as a result of unequal growth at European Union level and all these discussions, which are now taking place on the new Marshall Plan, on the new New Deal, on the Green New Deal, on the Kosolog or on the Reconstruction Fund, are trying to cover up what? That all these measures always had a common denominator, that is to say, how capitalist profit will be shielded and how the needs of business groups will be met, giving breath to a historically outdated capitalist system. Of course, the answer is specific to who will pay. People will be asked to pay for the new state debts that will be shaped through poverty, unemployment, tax bleeding, and even the imperialist wars. So any compromise reached at European Union level of the opposing individual interests will be an uncertain and temporary compromise, it will not rebut the nature of the attack on the working class and the rest of the people's lives and, of course, it will prove the lie of European solidarity. The fourth conclusion of all these capitalist crises is that any form of management, either the liberal or the social-democratic form of management - we have experienced them all in the past - will not undo nor respond to the contradictions and deadlocks of the system, nor, of course, to protect the capitalist system from the emergence of a new capitalist crisis, which in Greece the upcoming crisis will be even deeper because of the new productive model, in which there was a common acceptance of SYRIZA, New Democracy, PASOK - CINAL. The new production model, in which you all agreed and characterised by extroversion and comparative advantages. Wasn't that the new production model that you all wanted? Wasn't that what you were unanimous in all the regional conferences, and the thirteen organized by the SYRIZA government with their respective regional directors? That is what you were saying today and we are paying for the over-development of tourism, transport, the transit centre and the results, of course, as all international organisations say, are that Greece will experience an even deeper crisis. And, of course, from this point of view, it is clear that the people should not choose with which management mix they should sacrifice their rights and needs on the altar of the capitalist system. And since all this is obvious, opposition parties are resorting to a convenient government opposition to an inexpensive opposition. For example, SYRIZA speaks of the infamous "cushion", through which even greater support will be given to business groups, either directly, through the financing, with liquidity, with guarantees, or indirectly, through the avoidance of employees' wages and the payment to the insurance funds. But this famous pillow who shaped it? Mr. Stakoras spoke clearly. Taxation, the endless taxation of the Greek people over the years, its overtaxation, the reduction in wages and pensions, which all governments have imposed in the past period and, of course, the reduction to the collapse of state spending on social needs. The result, of course, is seen in the public health system, which has exceeded its limits before the coronary occurs. And this is not specific to Greece and the memoranda. Do we see the hundreds of dead people in the developed capitalist economies, which are confirmation that health systems had collapsed because? Because of all the governments, they were considered to be costing and gave precedence to the development of private health. The second element of SYRIZA's criticism, which even singled out the placement of the Chief of Police and spent more than two thirds of the time he was talking about, is the most famous training programs. However, no one has touched on the substance of the matter, because they did not want and why all of them have implemented it. What's that? That of privatising education, that vocational training programmes are carried out through private CECs, which is the womb, the nursery of selective relations between ministers of various shades, different governments, and employers of different CECs. In this respect, therefore, there is also the criticism of Mr Varoufakis in his speech about how the government negotiated. We have also seen his negotiation which led to the third and fourth memorandums. That was the result. At the same time, however, the various thoughts of what they were trying to cover, precisely that they are an apology of both the European Union and the capitalist system, and they are trying to obscure with various proposals, which will never be implemented forever. It is precisely trying to cover up the European Union's hostile character for the peoples, but also for the capitalist system itself. Here, allow me to quote all these issues on which the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has mentioned the question of education and the placement of Dimitris Koutsoubas. We said it was an unacceptable fact when schools are closed because of the coronary, when mass gatherings and demonstrations are banned, the government is bringing in a bill - monstrous education, which turns secondary schools into endless exams, which reduces the quality of education through the logic of pooling skills, where it further turns universities into public limited companies, and even opens the way to enforcing teachers in undergraduate studies and not just postgraduate studies. Because democracy is not judged in the Chamber, it is judged on the streets where the mass movement, the labour, the student movement and the student movement can demand and claim measures that satisfy their demands. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I should like to conclude by saying this: we shall not allow the Greek people and the working class themselves to pay once again for the new crisis. What is necessary nowadays is precisely to shape the conditions, in order to go through the counter-attack, to break the vicious cycle of capitalist crises that are taking one another and to clash with the interests of monopolies and with their power. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, too. Once again, thank you very much for both concessions. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot give the rapporteurs time, because the Minister has to leave. He has to go for the proper briefing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u267	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u268	We have had time for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u269	You guys can make it. The Minister won't make it. Anyway, let's start with the ladies. Mrs. Bakada, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be perfectly short of time. Very briefly, I say that in Amendment No 267 and in number 37 we are positive. It's perfectly reasonable and legitimate. The amendment with a general number 274 on the reduction of student rents, too, seems to be positive. Already, he's late. It should have happened earlier. Given the circumstances, we also agree with the amendment of a general number 275, concerning sports championships. With regard to Amendment No 276, although we consider it to be a milestone, as it leaves hundreds of thousands of long-term unemployed, it nonetheless solves an issue that covers even a small category and we will support it. I come to the amendment with a general number 277 and a specific number 47. Our position on the Development Bank, as proposed by the New Democracy, has been recorded and is stable and stable. Therefore, we cannot support the vote on theprocedures relating to its operation when we know that this will ultimately serve capital. Finally, with regard to Amendment No 278 and special No 48, we cannot vote on it because it is entirely related to the Government's commitment to the draft 'HRAKLES'. In conclusion, I would like to say something more for two seconds, because it is not in the Chamber and our parliamentary representative. But I have had the luck of being in the ministry since 2015 with Mr. Varoufakis. We have been accused - depending on where the charge came from, I mean from what political, ideological spectrum - of wanting to take the country out of Europe and that it is against Europe and now it is a defender of Europe. Let me make it clear: it is our party's firm position that Greece should be in Europe, but not in Europe, but in a Europe of full transparency and democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, too. Mr. Viliardos has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u272	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would just like to refer to some of what Mr Stavros said. As he said at first, tax delays and all others, on the one hand they consume cash, on the other hand they cost costs. We agree with that. He's absolutely right. However, we do not understand why the payments of the channel owners have been deferred for a year. We are talking about people who are shipowners and certainly do not have any need. Since, indeed, it costs public cash, why did that happen? We also said that since this was done for channel owners, it should be done for the rest of us if we want to be fair. The second concerns the measures to be financed from the State's cash resources. Here, no one from the government has told us at all. What about the next day? Is that enough? We estimate that it will certainly not be enough and that we will appeal to the ESM even though it has previously guaranteed us that this will not happen. What gives us great impression and wonder is why we are not taking measures for businesses, at least to cover the businesses that have been closed, such as restaurants, at least to cover their operating costs, such as electricity, rent, etc. These businesses, at a rate of more than 60%, unfortunately, if no measures are taken, will not open up. Then, it was very good to analyse it really did it in the first half of 2015. But here, we wonder why there has not been a committee of inquiry, as the Prime Minister promised, when he was still in opposition. Why didn't she, despite having filed a written application? Finally, we did not get any answers. We're constantly asking for an emergency budget so that the country where it's going know. We didn't get any answers. And we really expect it to respond, because it is something that concerns all Greeks and all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, too. Mrs Konnakka has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, do not say what Rule you will be voting on, because it will appear in the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u274	We simply justify our position on a number of issues in the amendments, because they are many and irrelevant articles among them many times and once we can vote, we have to, while there are some positive measures, not to be able to vote on the whole amendment. I said in my position of extending the special leave to disabled people. We consider that to be a good thing. And for the second amendment, in relation to the student allowance, we consider the measure to be inadequate. We believe that a rental allowance should be granted, because it is impossible families who currently receive the EUR 800 special allowance for two months to cover the student rent of a student who is broken up. So most of them have no support and pay expensive rents in all the towns of the province or here in Athens. For the amendment of the Ministry of Sports, we consider it problematic that the choice of SGUs and the various federations as to whether or not the championships will be started and how. The championships were suspended for reasons of public health. The Ministry has to decide on this. It is now possible to extend the regular unemployment subsidy, of course, and it must be done. However, many categories of unemployed remain outside protection. Measures need to be taken for these people. They are people with flexible forms of work that end their contracts and cannot be covered. They are people of the cultural area. They're employees with a block or long-term unemployed. There are many categories that need to be included in the protection. Finally, as regards the amendment by the Ministry of Justice, the Minister told us that the preambles have nothing to do with red loans. Don't induce our intelligence. We know the procedures. The only reason you choose to facilitate this process is to make it easier for the banks. This is not a start of the economy. Accelerating other procedures and other measures could also be anticipated. We also do not agree with the shortening of legal holidays. There is a great deal of reaction to the judiciary, because this time is not dead for judges. It's the time when decisions are written. Already, with the great subdelegation that exists in the courts and secretaries, judges and judges, there is a huge delay in the adoption of decisions. This time of the court holiday also serves to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u275	Thank you very much. Mr. Katrinis has the floor from the Change Movement. I admit I'm scared of you. But you promised me you wanted the floor for a minute. The rest of you talk because of you. You should know that. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u276	Thank you very much, Mr President. We raised three issues and received two half-a-half answers. That is the reality, Minister. We have taken a transfer in time that we will consider the issue of integration into the heavy and unhealthy fighters of people today. And everyone agrees, not only in this Chamber, but in the entire Greek society, that they must be morally rewarded and not just. Of course, we also received a general transfer for next week to the issue of the protection of first home, without the Minister clarifying whether he will prolong the SYRIZA's failed framework that you support today or make substantial improvements so that there is real protection for first home. There has been no mention of the issue of a tax advance reduction, which we say will go to 50%. Operations are suffocating and will be pushed too hard. I conclude, Mr President, by saying this: unfortunately, it has been heard in this Chamber today that the terms and conditions on which the loans will be granted to enterprises will not be decided by the Greek Parliament. Just, the Greek Parliament will be informed. Mr President, the role of the National Representation is not simply to be informed. When it guarantees the Greek State, either directly or through the Development Bank, the loans that will be given to businesses to stay upright and not close, the Greek Parliament must also take the decisions, so that the Greek businessmen know who made the choices and who decided to give them the loans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u277	Thank you very much. Mr. Zachariadis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u278	Look, I don't understand the style of government. We are going for the greatest recession and for the greatest unemployment in the European Union. And Mr Lebanese has questions, because we are insulting them and why we invite them to account, account and account. Of course, if you do worse than the whole of the European Union, we will invite you and we will give up and we want to prevent that. Secondly, the Minister of Finance said that the fund is coming in and making money. If they come in and make money, why would you give the dose to the canalarchs? Don't the budget need that money? Aren't there any people with a reasonable right to talk about manipulative information? Mr. Gerapetti is wondering about the ERT, the best or the worst. Obviously, he has forgotten what happened between 2013 and 2015. Then there was no ERT at all. But, in any case, is it an image of an executive state to go up to state-owned sketches websites that have the issue of the Chief of Police and then go out with the cartoonists Hanzopoulou and Petroullakis and say: "We have never been here with our consent for this." What would have happened if, during these days - which would never have happened, because we do not understand the state as party property - we put sketches on Mr. Mitsotakis or anyone else? Let's go to another point: SYRIZA's great contribution to the middle-class case of the country is that we got the country out of the memoranda. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Now for whether we're wrong or not we're wrong with Mr. Brutsi. Mr. Levane, you may be right. We might be wronging Mr. Brutsi. As long as you answer the question if Mr Mitsotakis and Maximos were aware of what Mr Brutsis did, it turns out that the brain was in Maximos and that Mr Brutsis was probably carrying out my instructions. I also want to say in turn to my friend Dimitris Kremastino and make it. The country's political life needs him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u279	Mr Markopoulos from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u280	I'll close and say how SYRIZA perceives the state. Perhaps Mr Capuchas should be asked, and I see him being also a partner in the SYRIZA House. We saw what he was saying and how he was devouring the then Chief of Officership and now Prime Minister. I would also like to say to Mr Zachariadis that I am impressed by the fact that the country's recession has already emerged. We are, of course, sending a "exquisite" message to those who want to invest in the Greek economy in the years ahead. You know, taking our own eyes out is a bad sport. The pandemics, as Theodores Sculakakis quite rightly said, end for populism, I don't know! I am very concerned after today's debate after Hercules Poirot, former Prime Minister and Chief of Police Vice-Policy, Mr. Tsipras. The measures will clearly tackle pandemic in a folk way, in a way that solves problems. And I'll close with something one of the top statesmen said, one of the top Greek politicians. Constantine Mitsotakis said that he was a good politician, Mr. Zachariadis, and remarkable friends of counterpopulation, it was the one who admits and corrects his mistakes. I will add that it is the right politician who has not yet lived with fraud when his fraudsters have destroyed the country in recent years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Health is adjourned at the end of this debate: 'Sign it from 30.3.20 BC. ‘Counterfeit pandemic measures COVID -19 and other emergency provisions’ (A'75) and ‘Other provisions’. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, two articles, five amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Make sure that you have voted for the principle, all the articles, amendments, the farewell article and the whole. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u282	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u283	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, appear on the screens of the Chamber, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u284	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Structuring it from 30.3.20 P.M.P. ‘Counterfeit pandemic measures COVID -19 and other emergency provisions’ (A' 75) and ‘other provisions’ were accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u285	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u286	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-24-S1-commons.u287	With the consent of this House at 17: 53, the sitting of the next Wednesday, 29 April 2020, at 10 a.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a topical and urgent debate.
