ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Debates of the European Parliament Page 128 1312/4-05-20 of a proposal tabled by thirty (30) Members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group pursuant to Rule 86 (c) of the Rules of Procedure. 1-3 of the Constitution and 154 and 155 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. With the proposal, applicants such as according to the number. Page 128 17090/9777/14-10-2019 decision of the President of the Parliament which has already been set up and operating a Special Parliamentary Committee carrying out a preliminary examination against the former Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Dimitrios Papagelopoulos, extends the preliminary examination already carried out in order to investigate any further criminal responsibilities of that Deputy Minister for any further criminal offences: 1. Challenge and tender for the execution of a felony (Article 186(1) CI), 2. Extortion (No. 385 paragraphs 1 and 2. Τ old MC), 3. Gifting a political official (No. 159 pp. 1 old MK), 4. Correspondence of a staff member (No. 235 CI), 5. Moral Surgery in Power Abuse (No. 46(1) in combination with 239 CI), 6. Moral Surgery in Occupational Correspondence and Occupational Correspondence (No. 46(1) in combination with PK 259 and PK 259 alone), 7. Criminal organization gang case No. 187 par. 3 (p. 187 par.5), as indicated in the proposal. The debate on the proposal will take place in accordance with Rule 155 of the Rules of Procedure, as it stands, and with the appropriate application of Rule 137(2) of the Rules of Procedure, namely the procedure for the generalised question. With regard to other procedural procedures, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 14 May 2020, I propose that Members should organise themselves in two circles of speakers. The debate will begin with a first circle of six speakers on priority, representing the six parliamentary groups on an equal footing, with speaking time for each ten minutes, without the right to secondary education. The first will be taken by a Member from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Rule 91(3) in conjunction with Rule 137(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The second cycle under Rule 65(5) of the Rules of Procedure will consist of twelve Members, namely the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, five, from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group three and from one MEP from each of the other four parliamentary groups, five minutes with speaking time, without a right of second. Because of the limited time provided for in the Rules of Procedure, the Bureau, in agreement with the President of Parliament, will show a relative tolerance for the speakers mentioned above. Parliamentary Groups have already submitted a list of speakers and the Office has drawn up a single list to which the Members of the Assembly will alternate with the Members of the House in order to respect the analogy of the power of the Parliamentary Groups. The chairmen of the parliamentary groups, as defined in Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, may also, if they so wish, participate in the debate. The speaking time of the Prime Minister and of the Chief of Officerial Representation is up to twenty minutes and up to fifteen minutes for the Presidents of the remaining four parliamentary groups. The ministers, if they wish, will speak for ten minutes. Parliamentary representatives will speak for twelve minutes, without prejudice to the limitation laid down in Rule 167(2) of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. after a speech by the President of their party, they will speak for six minutes. If the parliamentary representatives speak in a circle, we leave it at their discretion, after consultation. The Prime Minister, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and the Ministers, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, have the right to intervene so they wish, in accordance with Rule 97(4) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I would also remind you that, according to Parliament's practice, when the Minister intervenes, it is customary not to be followed by a Member of the Chamber, so in any case there will also be a similar adjustment to the list, so as to ensure that the rotation is fully carried out without, however, finally being affected by the power of the parliamentary groups. Any changes in the order of speaking should take place in exceptional circumstances after the list is drawn up with a letter from the Secretary of the Parliamentary Group to which the Members belong, addressed to the Bureau and subject to the necessary mutual change. If they want to attend without other Members speaking, given that we have a maximum limit of sixty Members in the Chamber for health reasons, the maximum number of those present in addition is up to fifteen MPs from New Democracy, eight MPs from SYRIZA, two MPs from the Change Movement, one MP from the Communist Party of Greece, one MEP from the Hellenic Solution and one MEP from Mera25. For the participation of the above Members, a list has been submitted by the parliamentary groups - not all, but will be submitted - to the relevant agency before the beginning of the procedure. Under Rule 155(6) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, during the debate on the proposal for prosecution, the House may allow the motion to appear before the person against whom the proposal is directed in order to hear his views. In any event, this person shall have the right to submit to the House a memorandum entered in the Minutes. The person against whom the proposal is directed, I suggest, speak for thirty minutes. The information we have is that Mr. Dimitris Papagelopoulos will appear before the House in order to hear his views. I suggest that he speak immediately after the first circle of six speakers, subject to the rights of the Heads of Parliament and of Parliament, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House. I would ask that we keep it, that is to say, after the first six priority speakers. In any event, the person mentioned above has the right to submit to the House a memorandum of censure entered in the Minutes, Rule 155(6) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I would also like to inform you of what the Conference of Presidents decided about the vote and to ask for your approval for both. The decision-making vote will take place tomorrow 20 May 2020 at 12 noon, since Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure of the House invoked for the organisation of the debate allows us to conclude the debate in no more than two meetings. With regard to voting, the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, pursuant to Rule 70A, provide that fellow Members or members of the Government who are on a mission of Parliament or the Government abroad may participate in the secret ballot by way of a letter. In accordance with its unanimous decision of 14 May 2020, the Conference of Presidents, in these exceptional circumstances, when a secret ballot is required, this will be done by a personal presence of the Members and not by a letter of formal vote. The vote will take place with the successive turnout of Members to five groups of sixty in alphabetical order. Each group will come in every one hour to vote, i.e. the first team from Avedelas to Georgiodas, for example, from 12.00 to 13.00, the second from 13.00 to 14.00 p.m. In a similar way, the voters will also be divided into three groups of both Members, so that the vote can be collected and counted at 17.00 a.m. which is expected to be completed. So these are the two preliminary suggestions made by the Bureau. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u2	Good. Thank you for your unanimous agreement. Here we go. As you will see in the first cycle of priority are colleagues who also participate in the Committee of Inquiry. There was one question if they could or could not, but this was resolved in the Conference of Presidents and they can. I just want to make a request - a recommendation: Because there is an opinion of 2010 and of 2011 from the Scientific Council of Parliament on similar cases, requested by the committee's minutes during the trial, that these are secrets and are not given, if possible, if the Members who will speak may be given a limited answer to the request to extend the indictment, with as little reference as possible to the minutes of the sitting I tell you that there is an opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u3	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u4	I, Mr Lappa, am obliged to remind you of this, to submit the request and to be written in the Minutes. From that point on, no one will tell you what to say. Mr Athanasios Plearis is called in Step by New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u5	The indictment is based on the classified Minutes? Does it include classified Minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u6	Calm down, ladies and gentlemen. Here you go, Mr. Plori, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, on October 8, 2019, we received the mandate from the House to investigate any criminal acts of the former Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr. Papagelopoulos, referring to a number of offences. Today, with the proposal made by the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, we come here to support the enlargement of this indictment. The reason we come here is that as we were due to be a pre-examination committee under Article 86 of the Constitution, when it came to our attention that there are complaints about other criminal offences, again from active prosecutors, we forwarded the file to Parliament without delay. The main enlargement and our investigation is that on the basis of the complaints, which I will put to you immediately, it appears that it should be investigated whether the former Deputy Minister of Justice was actually working in a structured way in which, basically, journalists sent reports to the detriment of opponents and natural persons and then to these publications, which were of their own origin, preliminary examinations were carried out and these preliminary examinations led to the targeting of political and natural persons. In fact, when the public prosecutors did not pay attention to the pressure they denounced they accepted, the same procedure was applied to the detriment of those public prosecutors. In other words, again from the same journalists and the same instruments there was a targeting of prosecutors who were not willing to discipline the orders they denounce they were given by the Deputy Minister of Justice, so the same procedure, i.e. publicity, disciplinary proceedings, exodus, has been followed. Who's saying that? These, ladies and gentlemen, are called the five public prosecutors, the four active officials. When we came here to receive the order the first time, we had two public prosecutors' statements, now we have five and we have another statement, the Honorary Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, which is very important. First public prosecutor is the corruption prosecutor, Mrs. Ryku. Since the last time it was known that he complained that he received a phone call from Mr. Papaggelopoulos to send, without any evidence, the file in the House following publications that were essentially mentioned in the newspaper 'DOCUMENTO' and once again in the paper 'DOCUMENTO' there is a post against Mrs. Riku who expelled it into resignation. Everyone said, but did Mrs. Ryku say anything then? It turns out he said. And how does he look? Ask Mr. Kontonis, because as Mr. Kontonis has been informed, he had received a sms saying: 'I resign, Minister, but I have nothing against you'. If he has received similar sms and Mr Papagelopoulos would like to show it today, that, as Mr Kontonis had no problem, he has not had any problem with Mr Papagelopoulos. So, what about Mrs. Riku next? Disciplinary charges. He's going through all the disciplinary proceedings, and he's getting rid of it. Complaints only from press releases. The march goes on to take up the Prosecutor's Corruption from the successor of Ms. Ryku. An Attorney's Attorney offends her, Mrs. Cyvelo. As soon as he makes the insult to the Arena Ice, where do we see a post? In the newspaper 'DIMMOCRATIA'. She denounces in our committee that it is a post that was targeted and as she sees at the moment it is a post that comes from Mr Papagelopoulos. What's next? Disciplinary on the basis of this, Mrs Kyvelo. It's the D.A. who reacted. The Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, supervising the Prosecutor of Corruption, Mr. Angelis, lasted three months. What did we know so far, ladies and gentlemen, and they had made it a flag? But this man says Rasputin. Did he ever say "Papiggulous"? I was listening to Mr. Papagelopoulos. Did he ever say "Papiggulous"? And as now I remember the faces of colleagues in the pre-examination committee when Mr Angelis resigned on 7 January 2019. Why did he quit? For a post written by the newspaper “Dimouratia”, on take news, he said he was the Deputy Prosecutor of Ice Demetrios, a false post. When Mr. Angeles resigns, what does he say? He says, "What are you saying now? What are you telling me, son? Who is Rasputin?" Papagelopoulos says that to Mrs. Demetrius, and that is what Mrs. Demetrius presents to us. On January 7, 2019, the Prosecutor of the Ice Award knew that Papaggiopoulou, according to the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Arena, Mr. Angelis, is behind the publication and its targeting. What else did Mrs. Demetrius know about? That the reason for his reaction is that the corruption prosecutor told him that I would prosecute three political persons by 20 December, and Mr. Angelis says that "there was no evidence and we would go to jail." It's interesting. On the 8th day of the month, a meeting is held at the office of Mr. Kalogeros with Mr. Angelis, Mrs. Dimitrios and Mr. Kalogeros on the subject of discussion of the publication of “Dimoratia”. Obviously what Mr Angelis said to Mrs. Demetriou will say, not to us, where she is called. Why did he mention the name "Papigopoulos" to us while in the corresponding questions of Mr Zacharis and Mr Sofalakis he said he does not know about Rasputin? He told us that he knew and the angel told her Rasputin was Papagelopoulos. So what about the meeting with Mr Kalogerou? Evidently what Mr. Angel told the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay said to the government. And what's going on? No judicial investigation has been carried out by 12 June, after European elections have been held, SYRIZA has lost the European elections, and national elections have been opened, in the drawer of a complaint, Vice-President of the Ice Council, supervising corruption that Papagelopoulos is behind his targeting and no move by the SYRIZA government that completely covered the actions taken. European elections took place, a post on the "PRO THEM" and suddenly a public prosecutor's inquiry is under way, which means that we are here. The following is next: Mrs Tsatani is coming to the committee. Mrs. Tsatani, do you know what she's telling us? That on 22 November Mr. Papagelopoulos called her, contacted her and said: "Send the Vegeopoulos file to Riku, you have no competence to have him the specific file, if you want to do a good Christmas, because you have a hot bomb." That's what Mrs. Chatani told us. Let's check what Mrs. Chatani says. After Mrs Tsatani refuses to send the file to Mrs Ryku, there is a last name complaint against her. By who? From Mr. Vaxvani. The reporter makes a last call. On December 22, 2015, this last name complaint is filed, but on December 23, 2015, eleven SYRIZA Members - take note, on 22 was filed, no one had learned the procedure - ask questions about the matter. And the Minister responsible says, "This question has been dictated. He is here, too, and if I ask them, they don't know what he's writing." And Mr Papagelopoulos does say that the case is being filed. But what's going on? In the cohabitation agreement on December 24th, which takes FEK, the Code of the Statute of the Courts is changed and, until then, the President of the Ice Bay had no right to prosecute disciplinary action, we have - take note of the following - on the 22nd archiving, on the 23rd question of MPs, a reply to Papagelopoulos... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm going to need a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u8	Mr. Florie, just a minute...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u9	Mr President, I am the rapporteur and please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u10	Here's what I want to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u11	You're cutting my mind off.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u12	You don't need to. You'll see what I say. I would like the unanimous agreement from the Parliamentary Representatives, because it is indeed a special issue, the ten-minute time of the speakers to reach up to 20 minutes and the time of the other Members, which are five minutes, to reach up to ten. Do I have the unanimous agreement? Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u13	The House has agreed. Do you understand why I said I'd exaggerate you? But at twenty and ten you'll stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u14	Very good. To come to the point: we were under pressure from Mr Papagelopoulos - in the complaint by Mrs Tsatani - the real facts of archiving the complaint and asking the SYRIZA Members. And after the question of SYRIZA Members, what do we have? Change of the legislative framework. And on December 24th, before Christmas, the President of the Ice Bay takes her to the disciplinary authority and prosecuted Mrs Chatani, while her case had already been filed. Apparently, a special coincidence! That is what Mrs Chatani denounces. Ms. Chatani, according to many, is for a thousand or two reasons unreliable. He was, however, the Chief Prosecutor when he made the specific complaints. Now he became unreliable and Mr. Angelis, who was the choice of the Prosecutor of the Ice Arrow for the position of the Corruption Supervisor, because he has the best CV in the Arable Ice, so Mrs. Demetrius told us. She became unreliable and Mrs. Ryku. Let's go to others who were trustworthy in the course. We are now coming to Mr. Athanasios. Mr. Athanasios is an Financial Prosecutor. In all this planning denounced by the two critical prosecutors is the Prosecutor of Corruption and the Financial Prosecutor. What does Mr. Athanasios denounce us? We are told by Mr. Athanasios that Mr. Papagelopoulos has intervened in open affairs. Intervention first: Television licences. Pressure to check and, if possible, to initiate procedures at the expense of Mr Alafuzou, especially Mr Alafouzou. It was a priority! It was when "SCAI" was getting or not getting permission. And the Deputy Minister is complaining that he was interested in making pressures and quick checks and blocking accounts of a businessman who was to get permission, who, as you know, was not a chosen government. Second complaint was that while a finding against bank managers had been prepared, Mr Papagelopoulos called and said to him: 'Keep it, gentlemen of SYRIZA, 'the conclusion'. And when Mr. Athanasios sends it, and the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office follows them legally, does Mr. Athanasios denounce him calling him and says that "what is it that you did to me?" These if you'd like to go and see them, they're on what we've transmitted. "What are you doing to me? Now I have to run the Prosecutor's Prosecutor to catch up." Should we not investigate this, if and since the former Deputy Minister of Justice intervened against bankers, so that this procedure would not proceed? If it's true or lying, shouldn't we check it out? He also denounces the case with Mr Papachristou, the journalist, that he was told: 'Find evidence, make evidence against this journalist'. Shouldn't we investigate it? I'm telling you it's a lie. But an energetic prosecutor, the Financial Prosecutor came and testified to us. Possibly, if he was a protected witness and came without his own presence, he had greater credibility for you. But it's a prosecutor, anyway, to investigate an investigation. We come to the complaints of a businessman, Mr. Sabby Mionis. What does he tell us to the committee he came to? He complained to us that he had a targeting of a series of publications from the newspaper "Dimouratia" again. This targeting, in fact, also focused on Mr. Papastavros as a partner of the former Prime Minister, Mr. Antonis Samaras. Throughout this aiming, a series of court disputes had been opened, there was a meeting - says Mr.Mionis - at the initiative of the government - Mr. Filipakis said that, the Filipakis-Papiggiopoulou relationship - with Mr. Papapas - be careful where - at the Maximos Mansion inside. There's a meeting between Sabby Mioney, Mr. Papagelopoulos and Mr. Papa. And that's where I'm talking about what? Open criminal cases of Mr. Sabby Mioney with Greek justice and the confrontation with journalist Filippaki. What does Mr. Mioney complain about? Mr. Papagelopoulos denies this, but I'm telling you what he's complaining about. That after they said to close the disputes, Mr. Papagelopoulos intervened and said to close, but to pay the money to Mr. Philippe. What money? Everyone said it as he wanted money to be given. This money, after six months, is identified and determined at EUR 350,000. What does the Deputy Minister of Justice have to talk about such matters? Why don't you question the fact that the conversation took place, but what does it have to do with getting into Maximos in an open criminal case? Is that all it was? We'd say there's been a mistake. But is it not so because a private agreement is signed on 17 March 2018, which Mr Sabby Mioney agrees with Mr Filipakis? Here's what you agree - Road map is called this - that the parties undertake this. Criminal organization! The investigating Public Prosecutor suggests that the investigation did not reveal any evidence and closes the preliminary investigation for all persons involved by putting the case in the file. They've agreed a crime file, criminal prosecution for court fraud. The fourth special interrogator recommends the archiving for both persons and provides a formal call. Another prosecutor agrees with the archive and 30 days later the decision becomes irrevocable. That's what they agreed. You're going to tell me: Is this related to Mr. Papagelopoulos or to Maximos? Mr. Filipakis tells us. What does he say to us in what he sent our committee? Two months after what I read to you on 15 May 2018 at 13.00, a meeting is held in the office of the Minister for Digital Policy, Mr. Papa in the presence of the Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr. Papagelopoulos, and a representative of Sabby Mioney, "me" - does Mr. Philippeke of the same - and a third person on what issue? Compliance with both commitments of the compromise, what I have read to you. After two months, they meet, and that is the subject of the debate, as Mr Filipakis says, which Mr Filippiakis feels is being targeted in this case. And he tells us that the thing was if what's being observed? If it is maintained that the public prosecutor will suggest that there is no evidence and will file the case, that the fourth special interrogator will send formal calls. Tell me this: is it possible for the Deputy Minister of Justice to enter and discuss these issues? Be careful what our differences are, gentlemen of SYRIZA, because you're talking about political persecution. If the New Democracy now wanted with this material - which you would have certainly done - we would come here and ask for the enlargment of the indictment and for Mr. Poppa, because we would say - be careful - that the 'right hand' of Tsipras is at all these meetings. But we have the honesty to come here and tell you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, that where we find evidence and we have to investigate them. Wouldn't it help us now to talk inside and say Nikos Pappas who is at these meetings and attends? But, here we come with the gravity that there is that we have a role not to send to the elbow politicians just because someone said something, but to torture the thought before we come here. So who's asking for the investigation? Because I know of a SYRIZA man who - he cannot - will certainly vote in favour of enlarging the indictment. It's Nikos Pappas. I have read to him the agreement you have heard and answered to the committee: 'Mr. Ploir, I really find it very critical the aspects of the agreement you have just read and I think that the committee cannot take a step back if it does not call on the representatives of both sides to see who put it and they call it, if I am not wrong, a road map'. I say to him, "Is it problematic?" "Of course, it's problematic, and whoever has recommended it, I obviously don't know what he thought he'd do." So, I say, the representatives of the two sides should come here to give us the correspondence between them. How will Members of SYRIZA come if you do not broaden the indictment? Mr. Pappas tells you that the indictment needs to be extended, because that's the only way they can come in to investigate the case. I read you what he says. He tells you that all this is problematic and unacceptable. So, since it is unacceptable that anyone who has taken it out and has to be investigated, you have to vote, because otherwise you do not want it to be investigated.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u15	Are you kidding us now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u16	To close, Mr. President, to be typical... [[Noise in the Chamber]] You'll tell us tomorrow, Mr. Polakis, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u17	Mr. Flouris, don't answer, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u18	Mr Paulakis will tell us tomorrow and I hope that it will not be said, as Mr Janakopoulos said, that he has inaccurate. Because Mrs. Demetrius said she never told Mr. Janakopoulos what she told us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u19	Finish it, Mr. Pleari.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u20	Mr Lappa, I am sure you will vote in favour of enlargement. Why? Why did you say in the Minutes: you said that the existence of a simple and only possibility of committing a criminal act or simply a simple sign of guilt makes it compulsory to investigate the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u21	I said it about the Corruption Prosecutors.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u22	Yeah, but you agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u23	Mr. Flouris, don't have a word and close, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u24	I'm closing, Mr. President. I'm not gonna talk. If you think that everything I said to you is neither a mere suspicion, then I wonder how you all came here with three protected witnesses - two, why did it come out of the committee, and it turns out that the other person is involved and says that I was dictated not to write what I wanted, why did it tell us about Maximus Sarafis, that he wanted to say things and that the prosecutors didn't let him write them - you drag ten political persons and with five active prosecutors you didn't dare investigate? Either cover or fear!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u25	Mr. Spyridonas Lappas has the floor from SYRIZA for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Fortunately, Mr Plouris, who, in the end of your speech, mentioned the word "protected witnesses", because the concepts "NOVARTIS", "scandal" were absent from your 20-minute report as if they never happened in this country. That's great! You mentioned, on 8 October, the first decision you made on the first indictment, which was also fully proved in the committee and brought in the inquiry. You went very well with the charges first, since all the five prosecutors you mentioned in the questions about the 8 October charges all declared ignorance. Very good. So the Parliament's decision following your proposal to set up a committee to investigate the scandals in October was not just a fiasco, it was a catastrophe, a failure complete and that's what you're going to resurrect. And how do you do it? Now listen to what you're doing. He said before the President of the Parliament's Scientific Council, which is forbidden when a preliminary examination is carried out by a committee following a decision of the House to refer to the procedure because there is a basic rule of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which the procedure, the first act of which is the preliminary examination, is for the purpose of voidity of the procedure and is a penalty - Article 252 for the waiver of confidentiality and export of documents - it is forbidden to make its minutes public and its work public. And not only do you squeeze legality, bring in an application with such copies of the minutes. That's all? You are also interested in tabling Samby Mionis, a private person, regardless of the political system, regardless of the parties' dispute and confrontation, for a private dispute, which brings a complaint to the committee, at the expense of the work of the committee, which submits his message and refers to copies of the minutes at the time the committee meets in a secret and confidential manner. Shame, just shame! But let us go to the issues that are of interest to the political system. I respect what you have said, and I will not make any use, Mr President, and shall maintain the secrecy and confidentiality of the procedures and practices and documents and all the evidence of the committee. I leave Mr. Plouris and Mr. Buga to follow what Mrs. Kyvelos said, what Mrs. Athanasios said, what Mrs. Rykos and Mr. Angelis, who all remembered violations and interventions of an old prosecutor and former Deputy Minister of State, Mr. Papagelopoulos, one, two, three, four, six years after the event, and even after the withdrawal, after Papagelopoulos left and ceased to have the status of Minister. So, the prosecutor, who is obliged by law to understand something he does not like, which is an irregularity, which is illegal, beyond the structure of the prosecutor's hierarchy, where he's referred to? Refers to the Heads, to the seniors provided by the Prosecutor's and the judiciary, by the Code of Justice and by the Prosecutor's hierarchy. That's where the D.A. is reporting. And not after three and four years, call him on a subject you're investigating, which is scandal or construction, and come and say, "Don't ask me about the scandal or construction. I have no idea." Nobody said. All five have said 'I have no idea'. They said: 'Don't ask me, I have no idea'. Mrs Ryku - I'm not talking about the Minutes, it's a post - what's amazing she said to us? After making a statement of resignation, when nothing preceded it, after he went to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay and gave two answerable statements with two hours' difference, he didn't mention anything about what he said to the Tulupaki committee. Here is hatred, service rivalry that actually expressed it and in the record three times. Our only grief gave birth to the conduct of the prosecutors who produced it from the committee. If these three, four, five prosecutors capture the kind, quality and feelings that a prosecutor must have, who must be incapable and outside of such controversy, really only grief gives birth. And what did Mrs. Ryku say to us? Mr. Plearis didn't mention it, he skipped it. He told us what he never said when he was in a degraded emotional state when he resigned with a pluralist statement of resignation. He went to the Ice Bay Attorneys and testified twice. He said nothing about what he said in the committee on which you support your application for enlargement. What did he say? He said Tulupaki did what I couldn't do. What do you mean? He made the witnesses along with Papagelopoulos and built all the evidence. The question of all: How? Say some way, a real incident, a drunkard. “They built them. What I couldn't do." This is the case-file you set up, gentlemen. That's her. It is a new fiasco, but it will not escape the previous one, which you have confessed to being fiasco. Let's go to second. What are you doing? You bring an application to extend the indictment by saying that there are indications on the first page and that there are sufficient indications on the third page of the new offences that you consider there to be evidence. When? When the work of the committee is carried out by secrecy and confidentiality, legality provides for it, but you keep it astray and in cold blood, gentlemen, especially the lawyers. The request is signed by thirty Members. How have the thirty Members who sign this application been informed, the secret and secret minutes of the file examined by the committee? In what way? I would like this case to go to the Attorney's Prosecutor's Office to order a preliminary examination, to order the Prosecutor's Public Prosecutor on how he leaked the minutes from our committee. How did the minutes go to the hands of a private person, who filed a complaint with self-determination copies of our committee's practices? And you want to talk about legitimacy. Who? You. In fact, you also hide the big issue that concerns society, the Greek people and the country's economy, whether this country has ever had corruption and whether the scandal is the result of a generalised corruption that distinguished all sectors of political, economic and social life in the country and not for a month and a year but for years. Mrs. Bakoyannis I see her in the eyes and I honor her, because in November 2017 she asked a question then as Chief of the Party of the Democratic Alliance and signed Marcoyannakis, Kiltides etc., all of the members of your party then. It was a terrible question that recorded all the negative phenomena of scandals and hates in health, reaching the sky. And Cremastino, Sourlas, Rakinzis, smote smotes, and hated against your orders, supposedly. Your people are appointed by your parties, the once-in-a-life bloc, but also in the context of the 2010-2014 period that this country has lived on this curse of memorials, with depreciation, bankruptcy, bankruptcy. And you're not talking about these, like we didn't know what's going on in the field of health. You've known for years. Mr. Venizelos isn't here. I honor him. In the book "The Corruption" of Diopoulos, he makes a prologue shocking and says that corruption in Greece as a flesh eats the flesh and the Greek state and the Greek budgets and the Greek society. And I said to Mr Venizelos on 8 October when we discussed the first application for NOVARTIS, that I embrace everything he says. I would, however, like to see, by a political man, who is a university professor and an intellectual and scientist, what he writes, what he declares to implement when, from his position as a political man, he has the ability to implement and implement them. These are the big issues and the great problems of Greek society. And you don't talk about it. You're not talking! And what are you telling us now? You are telling us that on 8 October you made a decision against Papadoulou, with the ridiculous offences - abuse of authority - because Papa Prosecutoropoulos had the opportunity to guide the Prosecutors of Corruption and the Prosecutors to take action and to testify to what the Prosecutors want. Protected witnesses come and make you laugh at all times. They declare that they are completely ignoring the name ‘Pangipolos’. Fully! Here's the moral automation of Papaggiopoulou in the perjury of the witnesses. Where's your ridiculousness coming? How will you swallow such a fiasco? Well, that's what you want to do. Ingestion is difficult. The range of larynx and esophagus is not sufficient. He's going to the mouth. And you are now coming with a new proposal, saying there is evidence. When? Do you have the right to the law? Bring us, Mr. Plouris, who is legal and you are ministering to criminal law, that a committee which investigates, if any, any indication, for a person before his or her findings and the establishment, by capitalising all the evidence, of all the testimonies. And you want with your findings to say, before examing the witnesses of the granddaughter and the witnesses that the other parties are proposing as a whole? What are the indications? The arrest or your mental? Should it not be the result of all the work of the committee? Should it not be the result of all the evidence? Partially, do you take a finding at the head of the committee and say that, with this finding, the temporary one, we're making a new charge? And what do we want with the Commission's finding? Why should the Rules of Procedure stipulate that a finding can be issued after the end of its work? And what does it mean 'for the sake of its work'? "Follow the probative procedure over and over," says the Code of Criminal Procedure. Do you swallow that? Look, no fiasco politics or law is corrected with a new fiasco. None! And you'll be very exposed. You'll see them in criminal justice too. Don't talk about the dozens of voidities in the criminal proceedings. And here I have to say something and remind the lawyers in particular. Yesterday I had a word. I also had the wrong impression that what we are talking about in Parliament is not judicially controlled, because they remain in Parliament's interna corporis, in Parliament's bodies, and what was said here is not subject to judicial review. It's wrong. The pre-examination committee is not interna corporis of the House. It shall be a committee with the tasks of the Advocate-General, the commencement of criminal proceedings and the voidities, which shall be taken into account on its own initiative, and which shall be presented by any party. Not to mention your request to exclude yours, Mr Ploiros, how it happened within the committee. Not to say that a request for the exclusion of Mr Papagelopoulos came at 13:15 and you brought us in from the committees until 14:00 to meet the committee and to decide - to reject it, that is - without complying with the procedural requirement that, for a request at least two days later, the House should meet exceptionally and normally after three days. Not to mention other cancellations, many for the benefit of the defendant. And you know that this case can't go to the court board under any circumstances. No one! And you forgot to say about your behaviour and how the 'NOVARTIS' scandal was structured. And you don't dare say it, you know why? Because you know that it is a scandal - like the 'SIEMENS' - which, unfortunately, did not start from the Greek political system and from Greek justice only from foreign judicial systems, which are well known for their credibility and for their speed and effectiveness. From America, they were also launched by Germany, the 'SIEMENS' and the United States, they started now. It is a scandal, which is being investigated in twenty-two countries in the world, the largest in the world. In fact, these include the world's largest population, so that today it is being investigated in 4/5 of the world. And what are you telling us in Greece? This must not be the case, because this is a procession. Yes, sir. Well, it's a make-up here. Well, since it is a construction here, we can pick up the papers - the Americans have prepared it - to take the statements of the guarded witnesses, who - I say it to hear it here - are middle and top executives, former and active, I suspect, of 'NOVARTIS'. I repeat, and I suspect, NoVARTIS. These are the witnesses. How did you deal with them? The effort you made in the pre-examination committee to reveal the names of the name was rabies. Fortunately, the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay itself has set up a wall and blockage and prevented you from a new political felony. And while in Europe, now, everyone is talking about widening and increasing the protection measures for witness protection, what have you done here? You tried to reveal them, scare them, scare them, sue them. And what were you talking about? You will disperse them, tear them apart, review them in lawsuits and lawsuits, so that they are completely scared and weak that they may recall something from the river of the deposits they have made at the Prosecutor of Corruption. And while you know that only the testimony of the protected witnesses is not enough for the audience for the conviction, if the indictment is not bound by any other evidence, what are you afraid of? What are you afraid of? I guess you're afraid of something. Anyway. What did you do after 8 October, I would also say after Parliament's decision to refer the ten political people and assign the case? And I would like to say here that for the first time - and you do not mention this - it is not of interest to you - a committee of Parliament decides and returns the file to its natural bed, which is the Prosecutor of Corruption, to investigate a case-by-case scandal other than money laundering and corruption. For the first time! And so we said that the Member - and we also gave a message to the political system and to society - must not, and we did not - put on the court bell and take advantage of or evaluate actions or omissions of colleagues. And we said send the case to the judicial officers. What are you afraid of? Why did you object? Prosecutors and judges in our country do not have a minimum of credibility and efficiency in their investigation? You were scaring and fighting it with rabies, as you fought with rabies and the Prosecutors of Corruption for three consecutive years and the protected witnesses, which is unheard of! Demetrius filed it almost shamed for our country, which is the only country in the world to behave in such a way to a prosecutor who is doing an investigation by law and in his capacity, but also against the protected witnesses, who do nothing but testify to the detriment of their former employer, at the expense of the company. You threatened, slandered, deceived most persuasively! And I will not forget - in December it must have been - where there were two events in Athens for the great importance of whistleblowers, the protected witnesses. One was the Transparency Authority and I was rapporteur on the other side of BIOME. The speakers - Mr Mitsotakis, Mr Tsiaras - praised the institution of the protected witnesses, how important and how decisive it is for the hit on corruption. At the same time, on the same day, statements to the press of your resignation against the protected witnesses, "They will die, they and their families will be torn apart". This is your hypocrisy, this is the truth, this is the advisability that distinguishes you across the range of this scandal's research. What would a citizen and a man of the Greek Parliament expect when public prosecutors do what they do? Because if they do not do well, they will answer, if they do well, you will discipline their decision. What would anyone expect from a statured political man who ruled the country either from the position of Prime Minister or from the position of Minister? To come here to Parliament and make a statement and say: 'I fully respect the political responsibility'. You can't hate it like bullets around it and not take political responsibility. There can be no government officials, officials, administrative agents, everyone, on the medicine, in the committees to hate and not have the political responsibility of the Minister. This is where I open a parentheses. As far as Surla is concerned, the political responsibility of health supervisors is given and established. The parentheses are closed. I was saying, what would anyone expect from such a political man? Make a statement: "I am taking political responsibility and I have a blind trust in the decisions of Greek justice, the prosecutors and judges." This would honor both the country and the same as a political man, but would add to the credibility and honor of the prosecutors representing our country, but also to many European and international institutions. Instead, what did you do? You deceived them, underestimated them, insulted them daily by lawsuits, lawsuits, reports. Fortunately, the standing justice at a virtue level and the Ice City Prosecutors so far have taken all ten reports, actions, prosecutions against prosecutors who investigate the case of corruption prosecutors. Fortunately, I say, because otherwise it would be a huge shame, a huge slip for the country, for our rightful culture and for the judiciary of the country. In this filthy thing. In any case, remember what we told you on 8-10. And you know what's impressive, Mrs. Bakoyannis? By 2010, 2011 and 2013, there were infinite days, two days and conferences and representatives of your parties, while the search for "NOVARTIS" was taking place at the conferences and said that, in fact, corruption in Greece is a key reason, in due course, that led the country to bankruptcy. This is where I open up a second parenthesis. "Corruption in equipment and health..." - says Rakinzis - "may be the only reason that led the country to bankruptcy. That's what it's like. I don't hear a word from you. What do you think? In 1996-2001 we have equipment on Chohazopoulou, in 2001-2006 other equipment billions on Papantoniou, 2006-2014 corruption in health. For all this, as if the Greek people do not understand it, society does not hear it, and you tell us that all this is a construction. In fact, it's a form. How many countries is "NOVARTIS" being investigated? In twenty-two countries. The fines granted so far are in the eleven countries over 700 million euros, eleven out of twenty-two. The others are still being investigated. And you're saying this scandal is a craftsman. Make a survey. Of course, polls have been made. 97% said it was a big scandal and the rest did not say it was a scandal, he said, 'I don't know, I don't answer'. Even a Greek does not think it is a scandal. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done, Mr. President. And what do you want to tell us now? That this is all a procession set up by Papagelopoulos, perhaps by the Pope, as Mr. Plearis says, for whom Papa himself Mioney himself, mentioned, said that he had nothing to do with man. He claimed otherwise. Your momentum, your political momentum, hold it for nothing else, Mr. Plory. Lower your momentum. It exposes you to it again and again. And, Mr President, to close, I say one thing. We are going to ask the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay to investigate who and how the minutes of the pre-review committee broke out so that they can prove themselves to the request of the thirty Members of Parliament, one of whom is also a member of the committee, Mrs Papakostas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u27	Please, calm down. Close, Mr. Lappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u28	Secondly, Mr. Sabby Mioney should be summoned by the Prosecutor and asked him: "Who, Mr. Mioney, dear Sabby, gave you the minutes of the pre-examination to include them in your message and to testify in the minutes of the House." To finish, it's not coming out of you, gentlemen. You just have a political decision. Look at the political decision which is your party. Look at the benches to understand how spectacular the government staff are in favour of your proposal. Look at this picture. He's telling everything. Only a photograph of the government's actions and it is fully revealed what your attempt and effort is. I don't have time, but you caused me, Mr. Plori, why did you use...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u29	But hang up, Mr. Lappa, with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u30	I'm done, Mr. President. I, Mr President, will not make use of the Minutes. I could do this and it would be humiliating for what Mr Ploris said and completely opposite. I will only say something about the political class that has ruled the country for decades and you do not say anything, talk, beautitude. I shall just say a sentence, Mr President, that a prominent man in Greece has said about elite. Before that, I would remind you, Mr President, - you know that, because we discussed it next time - the end of 2014, in December 2014, Vice-Chancellor Gabriel made a statement when elections were called. What did he say? "The Greek elite has been plundering the country for decades and we were just looking." Gabriel said so. Are you going to take a seat on these issues? Will you tell us we need to change our tactics? If we're all gonna change, we're gonna get rich. We just have another concept of our social policy, about Greek society.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u31	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u32	So because Gabriel said so, I will remind you of the words of a great man and then tell you, Mr. President: "The stupidity, selfishness, malady and the general disability of the leading class in Greece today brings you to the need to vomit. I am sure these punks do not represent living Greece, they do not represent anything and there are many unknown people who do not know them, but who deserve it." I'm not saying it's for today. But it was always for Greece. George Seferis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u33	Just for reasons of practice, I would remind you that in the first debate on the establishment of the preliminary government, the government was absent and there was an answer that it considered it to be Parliament's work alone and has no reason to be present. I suppose that's the same reason that he's not here today. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I start from the beginning by saying that what I shall mention about testimony and statements is all that has already been made public and I do not carry any confidential practice or statement from the committee. We are discussing an issue whose object is not a self-evident story or an incident unfolded by the general political reality. It is a case of roots and tails in the political processes of the last decade. Greece and the Greeks who struggled and built progress in the post-Multipulation process, and especially after 1981, had to experience a ten-year crisis at a huge social cost, a crisis that was caused on the one hand by the procrastination for the necessary reforms and, on the other hand, by the government policies of derailment until 2009, a crisis that was prolonged and exacerbated by the populists and the so-called anti-immemorandum block that reacted in 2010 and after the changes, reforms and sustainable solutions promoted by the PASOK to address the causes of the crisis. They are the political forces with a core of SYRIZA that argued that the memorials brought the crisis and not the crisis of the need for memorials. They are those political forces with a core of SYRIZA that claimed that junta did not fall in 1973, but they still ruled and are the political forces with a core of SYRIZA and leader Mr. Tsipras who described the Prime Minister, the legally elected Prime Minister of the country, George Papandreou, as Pinochet. The co-operation of so-called anti-immemorial forces, politically hetero-chaired but self-government in the concept of power management, and in particular by targeting PASOK as their common opponent, was not terminated, of course, with the election victory they achieved in the elections in January 2015. He continued as a government-shaped SYRIZA-ANEL. They proved to be much quicker memorials than the third and most faint to society. They followed a specific political and power system that, in addition to its prestige, sought to strike and slander the PASOK with an obvious aim of decommissioning the political space, making use of the "genders" as well, and to acquit its derailment policies in exchange for their assistance and government partnership with at least one of their components. No thought of researching the causes of the derailment of the country and obviously no talk of the damage that this conflict itself caused in the first half of 2015. All focused on serving party purposes and pursuits at the expense of her political opponents. The implementation of the political project of the SYRIZA-ANEL leadership was entrusted with the multi-according system that was structured, organised and acted in the field of justice completely anti-institutionally, based on the concept of the Rasputin School and on the relationships that had been established in previous years in the field of justice. Apart from the right people in the critical positions, drunkenness and paronary systems, a dragon was needed for their account and propaganda. It was chosen to be the ten political opponents, who completely combine the target of that period for the electoral success they sought in the upcoming elections. I would remind you of the line and the point made by the SYRIZA Central Committee that people should be put in prison to win the elections. This was the background on which the political process was designed and set up, which in terms of its political side, the idea, planning and objectives has already been fully revealed and partly decided in the previous elections. However, what the pre-examination committee is investigating with the mandate of the House and what we are discussing today, in order for the plenary to decide, is the further investigation into the criminal responsibilities relating to the setting-up and implementation of the service and, of course, the role of Mr Papagelopoulos and others in the organisation, operation of the judiciary, which, according to complaints by judges and private persons, has also been based on other cases. As a member of the pre-examination committee, I am absolutely convinced that all the things that have been tabled and reported by private, public, public, public prosecutors, not only do we have the right to pretend that we have not heard them, as some of our colleagues in the committee do, but we have an obligation on citizens and the country to go unforgettablely to reveal the truth and bring justice to justice. That is why today we are voting in favour of extending the indictment. Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement is not blackmailed and is not intimidated, as some in the last few days have done, and I inform them - the very opposite of what they have attempted. They united us more and strengthened our determination to move without accounting for the political cost, as PASOK has done in all the periods that are crucial to the country's progress with some traitors, of course, in its ranks. In all battles, in all struggles even of the nation there are the traitors, the ones opening ferryers, the enemy for their personal benefits, silvers or others. The "NOVARTIS" approach was the first aim of covering, overhauling and silenced the heavy responsibilities for the waste of public money in the critical drug field, not to investigate the case of the drug and the action of the cartel involving over billions of profit. At the same time, on the one hand, there was a gray propaganda scandal and mastery charge for political opponents, and on the other hand, on the presumption, for those who colluded with the established interests in the drug field, for those who led the household in one way or another, for those who supported the household. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] It is true that the pharmaceuticals won billions, their balances show it, and then, of course, they lost the'mazadura', as their balances show from 2010 onwards. Therefore, they reacted to the changes, the reforms, the household, the protection of the money of the Greek citizen, the Greek taxpayer. The irresponsible question that continues to exist and has not been answered is why political parties were drawn up directly with them. The essence, what happened, who did it in public health, was immersed in the dark. People have never learned what happened in reality, the illegal practices of the multinational pharmaceutical industries, and their reactions throughout the time that they lost ground for easy enrichment. It is characteristic that the then official opposition reacted to the household by voting against all the changes - rabies reacted - and was even identified when a clear amendment was made to reduce their profits. It is therefore quite clear in the political field what they have done. But let's see the numbers to remember. In 2003 the total public pharmaceutical expenditure and insurance funds and hospitals cost the Greek people EUR 2.9 billion a year. In five years' time, gradually, for various reasons that we have not yet investigated - and we had to investigate to avoid that happening again - it was launched in 2009 at EUR 6.4 billion. Yes, one of the EUR 6.4 billion received by PASOK in 2009 managed and firmly reduced public pharmaceutical expenditure. How? With the magic wand? No, with the creation of the EEA and the consolidation of the policies in the Ministry of Health, its electronic prescribing and continuous improvement, the new system of invoicing of medicines, the pricing of medicines on time, in accordance with current legislation and not ex post, and how Panagiotis Kourublis did so, the introduction and application of the measure of refunds in various forms - profit rate, rebate, clawback - and a series of other institutional interventions in the protocols and much more. The EUR 6.4 billion gradually fell to EUR 2.5 billion in 2014, since the co-operation government since 2012 has continued the policy of the household. In the difficult and darkest years of the crisis, we have therefore achieved a total savings of several billion for the Greek people. And when it came to the time of the report and the inquiry into the things that took place in the previous parliamentary term, which really had to be looked at and see the causes so that it would not happen again, the Committee of Inquiry set up for health simply covered them up. No conclusion, no enquiry, very simply because the government at the time had already taken the interest. It is characteristic that of many and large companies that were leading in the country's pharmaceutical market only one mentioned, "NOVARTIS", since, as I had said in the plenary debate on the establishment of the pre-examination, SYRIZA considers all other pharmaceuticals as saints and indeed in its political events it is said to share imagery with the other pharmaceutical companies. But neither NoVARTIS have checked, lie, fat lies. Of the six thousand accounts to which NOVARTIS has lodged 118 million euros - this is a typical example - a single name has leaked into the press, and that is for 1,000 euros. And what was the name? To slander and deceive the prosecutor, whose husband as a doctor had taken part in a drug program. Not to reveal the truth, therefore, but to incriminate the prosecutor who considered it from a point and then dangerous to the system of power which they set up, the wrongful system of power within justice. They feared her and tried to deceive her and incriminate her, that is, the same they do for other prosecutors. While they were described as imams, then, who were not their persuasive organs, they were detested as maniac, psychopathic, or something like that. They're the kind of guys. We voted in favour of setting up the Special Committee for the Preparatory Examination and at each meeting we tried to help uncover the truth alone. That is why we have insisted on sending us all the inquiries and content of the entire case-file of "NOVARTIS". However, I have to denounce in plenary that the Corruption Prosecutor systematically blocks the work of the committee and does not once send any information, such as correspondence with national and foreign authorities, which are of fundamental importance to the development of the case, as is an absolute obligation. He's allegedly invoked and denounced to us whether we learned something from elsewhere about the fact that we learned the secrets of the state and what will happen! So if we find out about the murder who the killer is, it matters how we found out he's the killer and not that he was found. And they want to judge, as was Mr Lappa's supportive speech, on the basis of the procedural documents. It's, it says, procedurally not correct to do that. All right! At the same time, however, these documents tell us they're classified. They came from the same in proceedings that they sent to the House and, of course, at least one of them was given to the former Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, to testify to it here in the House. Can you tell us, Mrs. Toulupakis, how exactly did you come from your hands to Mr. Tsipras? So, nowadays, with due attention to this issue, but also with a sense of responsibility for the complete revelation of the truth, we owe not only to the House, but above all to the citizens, to progress in depth and in detail. It is our minimum debt to democracy and the people. Greece and all the citizens who are experiencing a difficult situation again and are in danger of seeing their sacrifices evaporate, want - and they are absolutely entitled - to learn the truth and see justice functioning and being granted. The construction of the ten political persons is only one, but of course the most serious aspect of an entire derogatory, prestigious circuit. Some dark factors have sold counseling and know-how to a government that was only interested in staying at all costs in power. So she bought this know-how in the belief that by taking advantage of the 'NOVARTIS' case as a platform she could build a whole for the extermination of her political opponents. Here I would like to remind you that the ten political faces were stood on the wall or hanged on the handkerchiefs only with the vague and general reports and testimonies of the two witnesses of the public interest and protected witnesses. These gentlemen had previously entered the protection of another country - at least for one of them - since they were told that they would make money, which makes them private and not public. They illegally joined, then. In addition, at least one person is involved in bribes within the ‘NOVARTIS’. He took black money after he blackmailed, as he was reported in writing by another involved witness, but he was never randomly summoned by the Prosecutor in order to apologize. What for? But because he had to leave the witness's protection regime. Furthermore, the prosecutor who joined the regime and according to the law has a sacred obligation to protect them, revealed them. He's revealed their names, gave them dry. At the moment we know and who Sarafis is and what Mrs Kelesi is. After all, we told them that they were given by the Attorney-General, who then said, "But the document was confidential." I would also like to point out that Mrs Tulupaki's lawyer himself when we were discussing whether to give a statement, in writing, stated that the statements of the guardian on their own do not have any evidence of power. And he says, "What do you want to rest them? To obtain evidence of power?’ But they don't call them the rest. But the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay who was examined in committee, from what I read in the press, testified exactly the same, that they had no evidence of power, but only evidence of their statements. However, their general complaints no longer have any value at all, since when they were specifically asked about the persons they denounce, they said they did not see them, they do not know them and they never met them, and that what they either heard them from others or assumed them or, if so, I add them. The witness’s answer when he was asked how she felt when due to her false testimony a former Prime Minister was found to be hanged in the handkerchiefs. It did not react to the phrase 'false testimony', but it had another reaction, which you read in the press. The multi-month functioning of the committee, and in particular the witnesses' statements, confirmed the sense of the case-file. The image of supreme government and public prosecutors involved in a dance of interventions and opposing processes and actions causes every citizen, causes the democratic feeling, the sense of functioning of institutions and justice. And I ask: do we really want to get in depth and explore the case? The answer must be affirmative. And we want to, and we can. The opinion of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament itself leaves no doubt that the matter must go ahead. No one is entitled when they have sent to the handkerchiefs only on the basis of a number of vague testimonies of 10 political persons, at the same time closing their ears and their eyes on the testimonies of surnamed witnesses and even prosecutors. Who can ignore the statements of these prosecutors? He'll tell us right away. Who can even ignore the private deposits and the documents they have deposited, for which - at least what I have seen and filed by Mr Mioney - did not react and no one said that they were counterfeit? These are genuine documents referring to Sodom and Gomorrah. Former Deputy Minister of Justice is alleged to guarantee that he will impose his will not only on the Prosecutor of Corruption, but also on six more different judicial officers handling criminal disputes between two individuals, one who was his friend. In the interrogator who had been charged the case, the prosecutor who gave his assent not to call on the defendants, as provided for in the agreement, and the second prosecutor who made the proposal to the Council, as indeed the three judges of the polluter council who would issue the exculpatory appeal provided for by a private contract. In other words, we are faced with a situation of total manipulation, no longer specific judicial officers, but with the justice system. This is what differentiates the case qualitatively from any individual offense circuit, many of which have been revealed in the past. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] The evidence which has arisen at the expense of Mr Papagelopoulos from the work of the committee is, according to the proposal by the thirty Members and our judgment, sufficient to accept the request to extend the indictment and further investigation of the charges, always with the guarantees of the law and with a strong presumption of innocence. Let us not forget that this is the philosophy of our country's legal system. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that the case under investigation has unfortunately raised clouds of suspicion and deception above the judiciary system. It has affected citizens' trust in justice and its officials. This is the heaviest damage, of course, caused by the inspiring and performers of the craftsmanship, the deep wound left behind by this dark history in the institutions of our state. There is also the historic duty of the House to guarantee that it restores the rule of law to stand. We are not occupied, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to say this from the Step of the House - by feeling of vengeance. This is not a personal case, not even of our officials who have been wrongly struck by the dark system! Full disclosure of the truth and the rendering of responsibilities is a matter of justice, democracy and a matter of the future of the country and the future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. What is the position of the JRC? Is there a scandal? Of course, there's a scandal. No one can question it. And what's the scandal? It's the merchandise of health, the merchandise of the medicine. All the rest are individual scandals, individual scandals. We say this because in the present conditions of the pandemic the beautiful moral world of pharmaceutical industries, the beautiful moral world of the urban states that you defend, has been stripped of. There was a political and economic excitement. But don't you see here? They are killed, slaughtered, knives taken out by big business who will first discover the vaccine. For what purpose? To win! Here States are fighting with each other what tests are effective to promote the interests of the particular pharmaceutical and laboratory industries that produce the tests, which medicines are effective, in order to promote the interests of the companies producing these medicines. Don't you see them? Because we're talking about a billion-dollar dance! And all that on the back of the people. That's what's happening! How different it would be if the forces were united, co-operation and more effective, of course, of all laboratories, when the incentive would be to health and to deal with the effects of a pandemic and not the capitalist gain that runs in the merchandise of health! How different the situation would have been if there were the socialist system and the huge results of socialism in dealing with pandemics, historically recorded and undoubted! This is therefore the strong competition for who will acquire an increasing market share, who will promote drugs more is the source of the various scandals, such as the 'NOVARTIS'. "NOVARTIS" did something different? But all pharmaceutical companies do the same: from seminars, from ways of promoting goods, from relationships that they may have with state officials or possibly with political persons. All the pharmaceutical industries have done so in the past, they are doing so now in Greece and elsewhere and will do so in the future once the interests are enormous. We were involved in the formation of both committees, and the one that took place on SYRIZA and the one that took place on New Democracy, even though we had no delusion and stated it clearly whether these committees could investigate the reality and substance of the scandals. We participated in the first committee, which was a farce committee in the SYRIZA government and will therefore be recorded in the historically time-consuming 'the farce committee to investigate the 'NOVARTIS' scandal in the SYRIZA government', because it did absolutely nothing. He's got it covered. And now are you interested in revealing the 'NOVARTIS' scandal? But when you had the majority, why didn't you use it to uncover it? But you have referred everything to justice, as if the committee could not contribute to the role of justice and you closed it directly! The New Democracy does the same today. The New Democracy is doing the same with the second merciless formation of the committee for the interventions of Papagelopoulos in the justice and the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. We have also tried in the previous committee and in today's committee, and with responsibility and seriousness, to stand up to the work of the committee, to highlight the contradictions which emerged and which were serious, for example, how the committee is formed. Here were regularizations and moves by all others, both by New Democracy and by SYRIZA and by KINAL for who can and cannot be members, with contradictory positions. Good and good at all times! They'll be excluded, the others won't! And why was that contradiction? It's very simple. The committee is elected by the House, a political body. Each parliamentary group determines who will participate in the committee politically determines them, and at the same time this committee has the status of public prosecutor, which are specific rules which may be a public prosecutor. So this contradiction between political and legal existed. Why wasn't it solved? Because you all refused, New Democracy, SYRIZA, KINAL, to abolish, in essence and in practice, the article on the protection of Ministers, in the Constitutional Review there were micro-model amendments, micro-blocks, and the committee continues to play such a role as a public prosecutor. Second element. Absence - says - of the functions of the committee. But you're hiding behind your finger? And if you want you can't hide. This was where the Minutes came out at the same time as the committee meeting! At the same time there were leaks in the press! The committee had a meeting and her records were released in the press. And, of course, under this "accompanyability" of the functioning of the committee, everyone was going out selectively and said what was coming down to create a climate. Because all you were interested in - and New Democracy and SYRIZA - was creating the climate who wins and who loses, as if we had a football game to see. From this point of view, we uncovered the gambles on any subject, but also tried to explore how the interests of business groups and "NOVARTIS" were served, under what methods, by going against the stream of cheap impression. And after we did all this, why did we leave the committee then? What was the reason? We had warned that we would not become a laundry, that we would not legalise unacceptable practices. So why did we leave the committee? Because it was clear that the investigation was in every way hampered, with various procedural terminology and could not be investigated. What were those procedural terrestrials? The case of protagonists and the huge game and lisverity played. The hypocrisy of the New Democracy and the Movement of Change that they will be revealed - says - the protected witnesses! Barboutsa in fact! However, it was also the SYRIZA's unacceptable stance to protect in every way, with nails and teeth, the protected witnesses, a deeply insulting attitude to human rights. SYRIZA's specific attitude was an insult to human rights and to the protection of human rights. Because, of course, if there is the hood, there can be no effective examination of the witnesses, since everyone is covered in the anonymity and can say what they want. Who can control them when that anonymity exists? Can anyone control them? Can anyone check - the committee could not - under what conditions have they taken the character of the witness protected, and what were the evidence used to be a protected witness? No, he couldn't check if there were any such evidence, and if they were valid, they took the status of the protected witness. He couldn't. Could the committee check whether what they were saying was of interest to them if they had a self-interest? No, it couldn't be controlled by the committee if they had self-interest. Could it be revealed if what they said had a power? Is there any evidence? Oh, no! Everyone claims what they want, without saying how and what. And how can their credibility be assured? Can anyone confirm their credibility? No one can confirm their credibility. Everyone speculates, as the SYRIZA rapporteur has done today. "I suspect it's them." But with speculation, you're not building anything. One will say: "But well, if there is a threat to one's life, what do you say as a JRC? How can it be protected’? We say it clearly: Anonymity does not protect. What it protects is the name, because it will be very difficult for someone who will denounce names to have retaliation. But it has made us a terrible impression that the revulsion of the SYRIZA rapporteur today - he says - will prevent any conduct. Is he serious? That thing says? That thing dared and unraveled? So, what is it? More equal than equals? Of course we know that capitalists are much more equal than workers. Of course we know. But at this point too? So, anyone wearing a mask can say anything they want for anyone? Where did you see that written? And the other can't defend himself, why is there anonymity? That's how you open the ambiguity of Halos. It's dangerous that path on which you're walking and you need to understand it. So the nondisclosure of the protected witnesses was the first element. The second element was the non-disclosure of classified documents by the prosecutor of corruption. There's no D.A. There's a corruption prosecutor, the beginning of one, whatever he wants to do. That's what it turned out to be! Whatever he wants to do, writing to oldest shoes other issues. Third question: does something really arise from the functioning of the committee? We say that a number of issues arise which are of great interest, as this committee has worked: first of all, it is clear that all governments have been supporting the interests of business groups over time and on the medicine either at times when public spending is escalating or at times when public spending is falling and private spending is on the increase. So, if you'll excuse me too much, did the pharmaceutical industry lose when public spending fell, while private sector increased? How much was private spending in 2009? It was only 19%. How much did the New Democracy - Change Movement lead to it? He delivered it to 33.7% and SYRIZA to 45%. Private spending has increased, i.e. the money that people put from their pockets directly on the medicine, health, and not the indirect way of taxation, public spending and the insurance funds. Here, this is a glorious field for the pharmaceutical industries, since the pie remained largely. Really, how does that work out? Polynomial, countless legislative interventions and dozens of amendments in the last few years, which have concerned the determination of the price of the medicinal product, amendments and legislative initiatives that are phenomena which leave not only holes, but the window is right for arbitrary assessments to anyone who has this legislative framework. It's according to the beam arbitrary. Estimates, innumerable ministerial decisions that govern and specify the amendments, so a pluralism. Intervention on how these amendments are to be made by the various specialists, the various lobbyists, who were directly linked to the interests of the pharmaceutical industry. So the amendments and legislative interventions which they prepared reflected the interests of the pharmaceutical industries and not the protection of the people's interests. This is evidenced by all developments. So, then, we have a complexity of settings, the complexity of mathematical formulas that something to hurt, deliberately or unwittingly, always makes you a different result. In this respect, the whole situation leaves a very large margin of arbitrary pricing in the past and today. Of course, there were also the legitimisation procedures, which countries we take as the basis for setting prices, which today came with an amendment from the SYRIZA to be the three at eurozone level rather than the European Union. Doesn't that raise the pie of the pharmaceutical industries? Of course, because it increases the price of the medicine. So what is confirmed is that marketing health, marketing the medicine is the source of the scandals - the various scandals - that exist, the source of interacting and corruption. So the trade war on the shares may have a redistribution of shares between the business groups and some temporarily improve their position, because these compromises change every time, but it always leads to prices pulling upwards and people paying expensively the drug. This is the result of all the legislative initiatives taken by all governments, previously and today. A second element is the intervention of the American factor, as a determining factor in the outcome. Someone will say: "But, well, is there a problem in that? Is it a bad thing to interfere with the American factor? All of you communists think of them as bad things'? But here, we have specifics. Let's put aside the general umbrella. And who's that umbrella? That we have a trade war between the United States, the European Union, China on which multinationals will acquire market shares and how. That is why American justice was against "NOVARTIS", because American multinationals had suffered. So he did it for self-evident purposes, and not because he was well interested in the fight against corruption, interlocutory, and how the medicine was available. But let's get out of the whole thing. It raises questions about how this American intervention has been made, many questions. It is an informal intervention, a selective intervention, assistance from the US authorities - not justice, but, in general, from the US authorities - which is not based on the rules laid down by the transnational judicial assistance agreements. ‘Jocial assistance is another thing. Another thing is informal procedures and we are based on informal procedures." He came to claim former Ice Arrow prosecutor that informal procedures are good during the committee. If I'm not mistaken. What does it mean by informal procedures? Meetings, he says, occasionally held in bars, cafes, hotels, meetings with FBI agents, other kinds of agents and nature. The U.S. Embassy plays an active role in the whole case. Okay, how's that all going on? Is this legal assistance or intervention by the American factor in what will happen? We don't know. Could there be other targets? We put it as a question mark. But questions arise why informal assistance was chosen and not court assistance based on transnational agreements. Not that something would change, but we say, 'Why this different choice'? So what was the role of this US intervention? What purpose did he serve? All of this when it is at informal level cannot be investigated at least and gives rise to many questions. The third question arises: The image that emerges from various statements by judges in active employment or not, for the image that prevails in the high levels of justice. We have heard signs and monsters of threats, blackmails, cover-ups or mistakes made, cover-ups, service-sharing, luxurious and groupings. Really, that's what's going on? Is this the image of the supreme leadership of justice? Is this the world's beautiful and moral mission to render justice? If that is the case, then there are too many questions about their role. If things are the way they're reported. Why all these complaints? What's the basis? We say that the base has financial stimulus. They are the big economic interests and their protection. The basis can be the personal pursuits of each and every court of law, both during his or her judicial process and beyond. The basis may be the way in which the leadership of justice is defined. And here you are all co-responsible, New Democracy, KINAL and SYRIZA, that in the Constitutional Review you refused the leadership of justice to be elected by a broader elective body, but you insisted that it be appointed by the government. So objectively ties are acquired, and objectively each minister, each government, has the ability to intervene. As he was intervening in the past, he is intervening today and will be intervening tomorrow in justice. So here's what evidence they're proving. I will conclude in a minute, Mr President. And thanks for the tolerance. Finally, today's development has justified us. He was right to the attitude of the JRC, because you are not interested either in the New Democracy, the Change Movement or the SYRIZA in investigating the scandal. The broadening of the indictment we are discussing today leads to mathematical coverage of the case. Why? Because it multiplys the work of the committee. He's got other cases that are irrelevant. We can't investigate this case here. Will we suddenly investigate three - four - five more on the same committee? Why do you not want the committee to complete its work first by exploring this subject and then if there are to be any issues, then there should be other committees on other matters. But you put it all together in the bucket, so there can be this pot, this mud and nothing can come out of it. Could the indictment be extended? Of course, it could have been possible if the work of the committee had been completed and if there were indications of other issues. So, through this process of enlarging the indictment, new fields are being formulated for a greedy confrontation between the New Democracy and SYRIZA, in the new conditions in which the common responsibilities of all governments have emerged for the image of public health in the face of pandemics and public hospitals, where they have a common strategy for how business groups will be saved in crisis situations, sacrificing labour rights. You're making a terrible controversy. And of course, both blocks are won through this process, let's say that. On the one hand, the New Democracy block, a Change Movement to confirm that there was a building, that there were interventions in justice, that there were persecutions. SYRIZA, on the other hand, says that you are pursuing and moderating the cover-up of the dispute, the cover-up of the scandal and that you are persecuting and chasing your political opponents. We say this clearly, Mr President. The JRC will not engage in this process, it will not legalise this process and we will withdraw from the voting process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u37	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, at 12: 30 we have to take a known break for the well-known reasons of public health. We say we do it now between 12: 15 - 12: 30 and then continue with the next two speakers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We continue with Mr. Vassiliardos from the Greek Solution, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start first of all from NOVARTIS, from the size of the company, so that we can see at least what we are dealing with. The company has a stock exchange value of 200 billion, i.e. more than Greece's GDP, has a net profit of 12 billion dollars and its annual turnover is around 51 billion. This means that the fines we refer to here, of the order of 700-800 million, are too little and correspond to less than a net monthly profit of the company. So it's a huge company, and we need to know what it has to deal with. Now, I shall refer more generally to the procedure, starting from the fact that its secrecy has not been observed at all. As I pointed out from the outset, noting that what was being discussed, supposedly secrets, was almost instantly written in all the media and before everything in "theme". Obviously, there were some in the committee of inquiry who did not respect what was agreed, and there was no attempt, at least as far as I know, to stop the illegality. To distort only the testimonies of the defense witnesses and not the accused witnesses certainly creates many suspicions. In my opinion, the whole process is a travesty, above all because it focuses on the possible construction, from which Greece has nothing to gain and not on the many million-million-dollar scandal found. In particular, as the prosecutor revealed, according to a report I will submit later in the minutes, only EUR 28 million was made by Alpha Bank, while they were found at banks totalling 118 million. These, according to the reports, because I don't want to reveal anything, since the whole debate, the whole committee was secret. So there was a scandal, the Greeks lost a lot of money, and it was not investigated nor will it ever be investigated, as it seems. Because there are funny allegations that there could not be a political scandal, since all the ministers after 2010 reduced the costs of medicine - which, of course, is true - one can only say that they were not reduced by the ministers but by the troika, while even the 2 billion which reduced expenditure - of course private spending has increased, people have simply paid much more - there is undoubtedly a great deal of room for corruption. So it makes no sense to argue and convince anyone, at least not me. However, the truth has never been sought on this subject, always according to the publications which have not been disproved, and it is certainly not possible to send an A4 carded A4 staff to the Secretary of Minister, since this is usually done with a courier. Money is also paper, but of course it may be wrong all my thinking or the information I read. Besides, that's not the point. Unfortunately, the worst thing is to lose one's trust in Greek justice with all that is heard and with what I have heard at all the meetings of the committee. Especially at its highest levels, which appear to be often intertwined with politics, with what is known as the aftermath. Loss of trust in justice is a disastrous feeling, since a citizen cannot rely on anything. As long as Greece is governed only by the executive power, so by the respective Prime Minister, with the legislative authority simply voting for the bills, with a majority and without objecting, as well as the supreme judicial authority to be appointed by the executive, so that it is interconnected with it, Greece will not have a future. However, when he does not even have a constitutional court, but a Council of State that even characterised the memorandums in constitutional terms. There should be caution and not in committees of inquiry with possible political purposes, despite the fact that it is undoubtedly unacceptable for politicians to be accused without proof and for their personal honor and reputation to be smashed. On the other hand, one cannot understand the indictment of the defendant, in terms of possible construction, especially at his age, much more when it is impossible to act alone without informing the Prime Minister at the time. But should the former Prime Minister not be accused of this? Isn't it self-evident? But none of this happened. This is precisely why, as for many others, I am not allowed to mention, since the committee of inquiry was secret, and at least I have never violated the agreement, nor will I ever violate it, I am subjective to the fact that the procedure was, is, is and will be a travesty, in which no reasonable person is willing to participate, let alone when the scandal remains unpunished and the Greeks will never get back what they have lost. The problem is the system that has not even changed when Greece has been bankrupt, and none of the politicians, except the citizens, have been punished, as has happened with all the other states that have been driven to the IMF. The problem is the party client state that lives and reigns, all that has lost nothing from bankruptcy, not those kinds of committees of inquiry that never end up in anything specific, according to the experience so far. To close, especially with regard to the extension of the indictment, my impression is that there is an attempt to maintain the officer's opposition to hostage, nothing more and nothing less. It is therefore not going to have any effect, at least in our view. In any case, we believe that the investigation of such cases is neither a matter for Parliament nor for Members. The Members of Parliament are neither judges nor prosecutors. It is a matter of judicial authority, in which there are no vendettas between parties, as we consider to be happening here. Finally, of course, we did not take part in the process of examining the hooded witnesses, since we do not agree ideologically with such methods, and as was finally done it was another attempt, another parody. All this is sad and we sincerely wonder how they are accepted by the Members and the House. Especially with regard to what the KINAL rapporteur said, taking advantage of SYRIZA's cystism in 2015, if, that is, if the crisis brought the memoranda or memorials to the crisis, we have so many times analysed these arbitrary situations that we do not need to do so again. However, I was not the one who said "liquids exist" in 2009 to embezzle power, nor the one who led Greece in 2010 to the IMF and in 2012 handed over our national sovereignty by mortgageing everything with the Greeks. Such crimes are not unleashed by invoking others’ crimes, nor are they forgotten. The Greeks know that PASOK, New Democracy and SYRIZA led them this far. They know their robbery from these three parties and the deep crisis they have experienced over the last ten years, without any prospects for their future while unpunishedly ruling these same parties. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u40	Thank you. Mrs Fotini Bakadima has the floor since Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a debate on the extension of the indictment during an already preliminary examination. As the first time we have said, it is a permanent post of Mera25 that it is incomprehensible that the House should act as a judiciary, while it is a purely legislative body. Members of Parliament exercise legislative power and must neither be interrogators and prosecutors. It is not part of their role, nor were they voted on by the Greek people to investigate judicial matters, to proceed with criminal assessments, to examine witnesses, to collect evidence and to write judicial findings and indictments. By transforming the Members into a mixed body, a legislature - judiciary - is shattered, without any doubt, by the Constitution's anticipated separation of powers and the very nature of the findings of the committees of inquiry and preliminary examination, since the findings themselves have a twofold role: they are both political and legal, they contain elements of both. After all these months of the debate, we have seen many examples of purely communication artifacts and conflicts on the part of the parties that constitute them, both legislative and judicial. Material that only has managed to do is feed the propaganda by filling the media with parapolitical elements. PART25 will refrain from taking part once again in the attempted discrimination of powers, which it only manages is to degrade Parliament and turn Members into judges and jurys. We refuse to take part in a process which has no real role and reason for existence, and all that nourishes is propaganda and micro-political purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u42	The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, has asked for the floor and we will then continue with Mr Papagelopoulos. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to start because of the day when I refer to the genocide of the Pontius - not too little time, I will take - as the origin of Pontius. You know, we Pontius think we've done as Greeks very little for what our ancestors did. I am not going to question some, unfortunately compatriot Greeks, about the genocide of the Pontians. I'm glad Mr. Courides has changed his mind today. Suddenly he became a champion of genocide, and he used to say other things in the past. I will say, however, how little we have done for these three hundred and fifty-three thousand people who have been lost, sacrificed, slaughtered, women raped. My grandmother told me that she remembered that of the three sisters the two were raped on several occasions by Turks Chets and their nipples became later comfy with other women. You will tell me: 'War was, it happens'. Unfortunately, it wasn't a war. It was genocide, uprooting an entire race, an entire Hellenism with ten thousand years in the region. Because it's not only Pontius, it's also the Thracians, the East Smyrnas, it's the Smyrnas, but also the 'Communians', as some people call them - Vassilis Kegeroglu knows what I mean - it's all those who left there. About a thousand schools were burnt, teachers were hanged. And it didn't happen - you know - when we had the backwards. Why are we making the tragic mistakes in this House to think that genocide was at the time when we lost the war because of the criminal errors that the country's leaders then made. No, the genocide started in 1908. The genocide and the uprooting of the Pontius began much earlier, ladies and gentlemen. And we did little, because we waited in 1994 on PASOK - so some people don't think I'm not saying it all - that genocide should be recognized by the Greek Parliament officially. No, we didn't do anything. No, we did little. Because they're Greek, they're dead. I say this because I hear many compare - and here is the mistake - the refugees persecuted, outdated, our brothers, with some who come today from Somalia or Ethiopia. It's the wrong comparison, the wrong conception. They may be suffering hardship, and these people, unfortunately, too. But they're not our brothers and we're not responsible for their uproar. That's how I start to go to the rest. We had said October 8, 2019, and I had made the following statement, and I was unfortunately confirmed: We leave New Democracy alone in the covert, and we leave. I cannot get into the games of the New Democracy, the political opportunism that wants to drag Greece forward, drag SYRIZA by election, and say that SYRIZA or Mr Papagelopoulos or some of SYRIZA has an pending court. SYRIZA did so in an election. The New Democracy for SYRIZA repeats this today. If they think that with setbacks they can play games, they're wrong. They are wrong and I will prove to you why the story of "NOVARTIS" is toys. We are consistent in our line. We say 'yes' to the resolution, but not to the real resolution, where a process of cover-up is being followed - since of course Mr Papagelopoulos is also a moralist - by Mr Tsipras. The New Democracy MPs themselves claim to have been given orders from Mr. Tsipras. Why didn't you put Mr. Tsipras in the dashboard? I'll tell you what. Because you're the same, fearful. You're afraid to do the self-evident thing or have agreed something. I don't know. I can't say that I have proof of what I'm saying, but I can't follow your logic. And why am I weak? Because you think the Greek Solution will enter the tide of these two poles to crush. What you did with PASOK. In other words, you think that because they fight the buffaloes - and because you think we are the frogs - we will pay it, the Greek Solution. You're wrong. We're no frogs, either. We are here to shed light on 'NOVARTIS'. I'm not going to say what Mr. Villard said was found in statements, but they were never searched. I cannot understand, Mr President, why the statements were not searched. I'm talking about money, deposits that went into ministers of earlier years. Otherwise, let's say publicly that the prosecutor made a mistake, there's nothing and the story ends here. And I'll tell you the most serious things right now. I have my objections in front of me. What did we find up to today? Tell me what you in the New Democracy found out from this story? Did you get any money? So you found out there was someone who or took money, as this strange guy, the one known to the Panama Papers, a serious man, says! You're invoking him. What's the guy's name? Mioney? You take him seriously in the mind of a man! Is it possible to take serious account of a man who is a speculator, an opportunist? Are we all right? Is that a serious thing, a serious logic? Any Mioney who gambles on the stock exchanges, funds or I don't know what else, who's involved with the Panama Papers, which you forgot as well as the Lagard list, all disappeared, finished story! I am not saying that something has not been done well by the New Democracy with the Panama Papers. But I'm saying something's going on. Why don't we look for these? Are you afraid there are many families in there? Mine, of course, isn't. Because I've filed with certain banks and my jobs are here. I have no company abroad or offshore or "onshore" or any of it. Clear things! So let's actually go, because this is the whole story. Tell me what the financial damage is for the State? I'm asking you. What is the financial damage of the public? You know, in New Democracy? You're chasing Papagelopoulos. You're chasing him, an elusive man. Let's all eat him together. Do you have proof? Did he get any money? Did he do something? What's the form, so I can understand? That he wanted to put Samaras in jail? Are we serious? Can you believe it here? Or put Adon? If he did, prove it. But, what are you doing now? 'You're working out the case, you're spreading it. What for? And I'll tell you differently. Tell me what the Greek has to do with "NOVARTIS". You tell me. And I'll tell you why I'm saying that. He's homeless, he's unemployed, he's not feeding his children, he's gone six hundred thousand Greeks abroad and you with "NOVARTIS" chasing ghosts. If you find ghosts, we need proof. I, listening to hours endlessly to Mr. Villardo, who is on the committee, talking to him - is a serious man, there is no one of these strange people you are gathering - tells me he has seen nothing, he has found nothing, he has not understood anything, he has not understood anything, he seems nothing. Because if there's anything, tell us what it is, let us know. "Valiches" they said, "bugs" they said from here, the money transferred it. So this whole phenomenality doesn't bother you? Sensitively, I'm telling you, to understand it. Because if New Democracy really fought for "NOVARTIS" - really - like PASOK, like SYRIZA, thousands of doctors should have been arrested. You should have arrested thousands of doctors who prescribed for "NOVARTIS" and none of you hurt them. Nobody! Attachés wrote recipes. You're looking for Papagelopoulos. Put him in jail when the story is over. The billions that ate where we'll find them, guys, villa doctors, etc.Huh? Did you look for them? Did you untie them? Oh, no. Let me make a court of court the Greek Parliament, yelling 'Do a constitutional court, do something to end the story'. But you don't want that. And I'll tell you why you don't want it, gentlemen of the New Democracy. Because of the S.T.E. You put whoever you want and make decisions as you wish. That's the reality. Don't make fun of the world. Don't tell me about freedom of justice, the justice that is independent. You're making fun of the world. You nominate presidents, aerospaces, etc., and decisions come out, as everyone wants. I am talking about the power in question, I am not talking about the New Democracy, and even SYRIZA. This is how the rotten system works, unfortunately. I welcome Mr. Papagelopoulos. Is he hiding behind Mr. Papaggelopoulos's story an offense system? It consists of which moral or physical perpetrators? Tell us who they are. Let me hear you. Names I want. Names! You also put an editor in the vagina, who is politically opposed to you, which shows your tragicity. Right is man. He is the editor of the newspaper “DIMOCRATIA”. He's your man. Is it yours and you put him on the "cadron", because he is your political opponent today? Why is it against the illegal immigrants, the Prespecies and all this? Why are you doing this? Do we want justice? Let's agree. Do you want to expand the case? Let's agree. However, as far as the law on the liability of ministers is concerned, I cannot consent to pragmatism. I can't. It can't be done. It doesn't exist. Of course, all you do is disorientate Greek public opinion. You disorientate the Greeks. That's what New Democracy does today. He has the channels with her, he has buckled them with money - millions of euros - "live the best ruler in Greece after Kapodistrias", who is beaten in New Democracy in 2021 by Angelopoulou. My friend Thana, of course, comes out and protests. Poor thing! You're the ones who put it. Did I put it? Mrs Aggelopoulou, the woman with the fountains and cigars, has been put by the New Democracy. "Bubulina 2021" is in charge! So you can't be some of them both with the ranger and the constable. Decide to know who you are. I have nothing personal with my colleague. To God! I'll say it raw. I believe that this is a clear accounts story. I will not say 'cosa nostra' or 'nos'. I'm going to say that one is going to make the other one clear, the previous ones, and now you're going to avenge them. And what about in the end? Plus, what's going on? Zero. Clearance. That's what you're gonna do. So we in this "game" cannot get in, because we have both a crisis and a knowledge and a perception. When was a minister who took them? You tell me. When was a politician punished? When? Chochazopoulou, we caught him from the crap he did on his papers with his houses, not that we caught him with the money, with the "stick on his back". Oh, no! Because, unfortunately, many of the ministers have them in their homes hidden. Because they took 6,000 euros a month and suddenly became millionaires, they have five - ten houses. I've been a businessman for thirty years, and I don't have ten houses. And one of my companies is racing five million euros, the other six million euros last year. I don't have ten houses. And I wonder how some people have ten houses in here. Also, as a businessman, I am normally taxed by the law. You are therefore calling on us to decide on criminal proceedings, and we are not judges. That's what New Democracy wants from us. "Decide you." he says. Is that a judge? Why have we not all agreed together not to make this theater of irrationality in here and to have a court? To go to the natural judge, to finish the story. I can't do this anymore! It's unbelievable. So, do you understand what's going on today? Turkey decides next month to go under Crete. Erdogan said so yesterday and today. Haftar's backing, losing areas where he took them. Turkey wins with the "plate" of the Italians, the Americans, the French and our other allies in NATO. He's winning! I saw Piat here. He was walking around. Mr. Katrugalos' office had gone, Mr. Voutsi, the commissioner. He wanted to be informed, I imagine, of what you hear about Vardinoyannis you're talking about, etc. What's the ambassador doing here? Christ and God bless you! He's walking around here, the ambassador of the United States. What are we? Do we have regents? What are these things? It reminds me of Otto. SYRIZA's colleagues, the Ambassador of the United States here walks around your offices, not ours. We can't even give it to him. He's coming through, and he's running out. Let's actually go. Here's what the New Democracy said in an election. 'Everyone will be prosecuted.' So you said, "We'll take them blood." I was seeing Adonis and I was happy. They're taking the symbiotes to blood. And suddenly after the election, the Tsipras' punishment policy. "We are not making political persecutions," said Mr Mitsotakis. Are you all right? Where's the blood? Did it get water? Isn't that what you were saying? I'm telling you again, put Tsipras on the 'cadron'. Why don't you put him on? Protected witnesses. In the Marble Ice in front of the committee with an ointment. We're talking about pharmacopoeia. Mercury! How did you put up with this? We're talking about a show. From the outset, we said that the dolls should come out, from the very beginning, literally and transportly. The New Democracy card, one more thing with the ranger, one with the policeman! Now he's asking for an extension of the indictment. You say, and we found a man responsible for expanding it. Let's put him in jail to keep us all quiet together. If you think that the problem of NOVARTIS has been solved, we have solved it. The billions will you get them back? The billions that have been eaten, will you bring them back? That's what I'm interested in. I don't want anyone else in jail. I want the stolen back, however, because it's stolen money from the Greek people and which must be attributed back to the Greek. I can prove to you how that works. Did we find all the guilty ones? Did you find them? Or did we find a "black sheep" to load it all on him? I know it too: a scapegoat, an ancient Greek tragedy. You load them on him and the story ends. It's not like that. Did he do it all by himself? It's not Rasputin, who he was saying. But he must be a very radioman to do all that you've been denouncing him on his own without Mr. Tsipras knowing anything. Then the Prime Minister is a fool. If you think the man who took 36% and ruled Greece is foolish, you are wrong. Or a fool was the Prime Minister and he did everything himself or did it together. There's nothing but these two. Decide on your own. If you want, put Tsipra on. That's the story. I've said it from the first moment. If you are interested in the truth - the truth - why didn't you make a nice settling here too? And what happened is done. We're acquitting him and the story's over. That's how you've done with the Prespecies, ladies and gentlemen. We asked you for a committee of inquiry and you told us that 'it is not possible to get SYRIZA out of the way'. But that's where he's doing it. Prespes doesn't do a board of inquiry. Oh, no! It's here. Here's the party farm. They fortify behind the party, you fortify behind the party and you throw away the "arrows" to each other - there's nothing arrow on it - and we say "what nice things are being confronted." I don't understand it. Let's go to "NOVARTIS" and hang up here. In the United States heavy fines for a series of cases and many other outstanding cases for ‘NOVARTIS’. Why don't you tell the truth, ladies and gentlemen? Where did the owl start unfolding? From the United States of America. In 2010- I will tell you directly - the "NOVARTIS" guilt to promote out-of-dose Trileptal drug. As part of a settlement, he agreed to pay half a billion dollars in compensation. He paid the U.S. public half a billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u44	480 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u45	Mr. Lappa, 422 million I have in front of me. Why do you have the 20 million? I'm telling you half a billion. It's not bad. What 480 million what half a billion? To them, they're few, trust me. It's a lot for you. But for them, it's a little bit of money. Has the Greek State, ladies and gentlemen, done anything to initiate a procedure for damages from NoVARTIS? Did you do anything? If you tell me you did something, I'll take it. A document, an e-mail you sent to say "Why, you guys, did you eat the Greek people's money?" Not demanding. You know, you have a different, kind, grandeur. You should kindly ask them for the money. You guys made a scam. Give us the money back. Nothing! Now, then, I'm saying that or you're incapable of claiming them because behind it is hiding a German company or some people are getting it. But both of you are co-responsible. You're committing a crime nationally. Because 500 million is enough to be able to power my C-27 planes, my C-130 plane, to fly more easily. I'm telling you to understand it. In November 2015, “NOVARTIS” again admitted guilt and paid $390 million compensation for irregular promotion of two medicinal products, indirect pharmacy bribery. Here we had indirect or immediate bribery of doctors, indirect or immediate bribery of pharmacists, indirect or immediate bribery of ministers - some say, I do not believe - or politicians took it all. Okay. We found the money, Papagelopoulos. Will you bring the money back, gentlemen? You chased, did you do something about the money? The company has paid $1.25 billion since 2015 in twenty cases in the United States. I haven't seen a dollar here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u46	That's where you ask. What have they done for four and a half years?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u47	Is this SYRIZA? Where are you? Aren't you government? Are they still ruling? Oh, yeah, I forgot. You're still ruling. You're right. You guys are all the same now? One year spent an e-mail you didn't send for the money you lost to claim compensation. Is that their fault again? It's their fault. But that doesn't make sense. Because netting always leads to zeroing. Except two, plus two, zero. That's not how it works. In Europe, the Italian Competition Committee fined NOVARTIS 92 million again for the promotion of Lucentis. The Italian Ministry of Health will claim EUR 1.2 billion from NOVARTIS and LAROCHE. These are open issues. I'm looking to find Greece, Mr. Polakis, a year of what she asked for and I can't find anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u48	When I went out and said "because they're stalling" I put a bomb on the foundations of the civilization.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u49	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Let the President continue his speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u50	Even 1 euros didn't ask Novartis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u51	Mr. Markopoulos is a vibrant. I mean the following. If we go out of the Greek Parliament and go back to a hundred Greeks and ask them 'Papingopoulos prison or the billions lost to go back', what will they say? I prefer the second, gentlemen, the billions that have been eaten. That's what I prefer. Do you know why? Because Papagelopoulos won't be in jail for one single reason. Because if you're conscious, you don't have proof to take him to prison. With evidence you're not judging anyone. Perhaps in Maximos now there are no strange situations, and today with this government, agreements, stories, what we will do, what we will not do. That's what power has been doing since the time of Athenian hegemony. That's the truth. He's using justice in how he suits her. We're not on this trip. And I'll tell you one more time. The dirty political system, from 1974 until now, clears similar cases. Complication, American agent, money, multinational, politicians, all together a bucket, hair bucket. Not to say the other thing. I'm stopping here. In April 2014, the French authorities launched an investigation which at the end of the year will yield some 1 billion to the French Government, again with NOVARTIS. In South Korea, persecution against the former CEO and its subsidiary NoVARTIS in the country, 2.6 billion guan, i.e. 1,95 million euros. I say this because sincerely, if you expect us to pull behind this story, you are wrong. Do you really want us to stand by you, vote with you? Yeah. Do you want us to settle the case with you? Yeah. I have one prerequisite: to see from New Democracy a letter to "NOVARTIS" asking for compensation. If you do not do this, we will become neither natural nor moral entrepreneurs of covertness. It's over and out. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Finally, I should like to say this because some things have to be said. I told you that you really are a special government. Are you all right? Are you chasing, ladies and gentlemen, those who married and baptized during the coronary period? Did the Minister of Interior, along with the Minister of Education, send to know how many Christians married? Are you all right? Do you know what you're doing? I can't believe what's going on. You're hunting - it says - the Christians because they got married in the middle of a coronary. Let's not ask you when we're going to get married. Are you all right? You put the vaccines on us, we will ask and when Greek Christians will marry. What's that thing? And, of course, let me tell some people from SYRIZA. You know, ladies and gentlemen, it is not wrong not to know Church law, as it is not wrong not to know the Orthodox. But I'm going to read to you this self-determination. I may disagree with this story, but we need to know what normal something means. Devotion, according to the sacred rules, is simply a removal from the Holy Concept they fought against. I mean, it's not a penalty. It's a transient sentence until the believer repents. It's removal from the flock. Look a little bit longer. I might argue, too, with all the things that have happened, but when we don't know something, don't start and kick our clothes on TVs, because we don't know, we've been abducted, we're offended. That can't happen. Besides, enter a church. You just found a splendid splendid field to mess with the Orthodoxy because of one of them. I was listening to the Minister of the New Democracy saying 'the pussy is'. Ladies and gentlemen, is that what we do about the Divine Society? The late Metropolitan was singing the spoon. That's kind of what it's called differently. It's called a clamp - if you don't know any of you, you're not obligated, but a clamp is called, say it to the relevant Minister - or a spoon. You flammed us with your anti-Christian things. They're all experts! And because we want to receive the body and blood of the Lord, I'll tell you this. Those who want to do it. It is not compulsory to do so. Let us who want or whoever they want - maybe I don't want - to do whatever they want. We have a democracy. In the end Christians will be asked if they should go to the toilet. I mean, Christ and Holy Mary! Turning off to say this. Mr. Papaggelopoulos, I don't know you personally, but I'm not going to find you a riot victim, a scapegoat, if I don't get the billions back, I'm not going to find anyone. That is why we do not agree with the procedure and we will leave quietly and quietly, but we will continue to look for the case, we will continue to be in committee, so that we can see who is right. You're right you're going to cover up the story with this story of Papaggelopoulos and you're not asking for money, billions of euros or others who say that some ministers might have become more rich at the time. We'll see it along the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, under Rule 155 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, during the debate on the proposal on prosecution, the House may allow the motion to appear before the person against whom the proposal is directed in order to hear his views. The person against whom the proposal is directed will speak for thirty minutes with tolerance. I invite Mr. Papaggiopoulou to Step. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, not to interrupt the speaker and to listen with respect to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President, and in particular thank you for the 'with tolerance' point. I will take advantage of it as much as I can, because for months now there has been an orchestra of lies against me, to which I am at least entitled to answer. Ladies and gentlemen, I have chosen to speak early, although time is not television. News releases come later. But to me, you know, I don't generally care about communication. I'm interested in the essence and the truth. And I want to deprive the speakers of the excuse that they did not know and did not know. To say what they have to say against me, but not have the excuse 'we didn't know'. That's why I preferred to talk now. Ladies and gentlemen, about eight months ago, the Greek Parliament decided to set up a special parliamentary committee to investigate allegedly my crimes about the allegedly building, but in fact about the existing and huge scandal of 'NOVARTIS'. From the moment on, I have denounced that this is a vengeful political persecution against me. Today, after eight months, I am fully confirmed. The desperate efforts of the majority of the committee, the illegal, criminal and anti-constitutional methods at my expense, the systematic violations of my rights and the presumption of innocence have done nothing. Turns out no evidence came up against me. And it did not come out of the committee's weakness, but because there is simply no evidence at my expense. But something else has been proved: the aim of my faithful prosecutors was not only the avengemental political persecution against me. There were two other targets that were much more important to my prosecutors. Objective One: To hit Alexis Tsipras' image, which they did not dare, was to be included in the survey. They thought it was much safer to poison the political climate with bitrial comments and insinuations of the press: “Papagelopoulos couldn’t have done it alone. Tsipras put him in, and he knows everything." Gentlemen, this is political manhood. Objective 2: This objective is much more important. It is about the political survival of a number of well-known - unknown, to use the well-known phrase, philosophies of politicians. Their goal is to show the enormous scandal "NOVARTIS", which has damaged with millions of Greece and the Greek people, as non-existent, as a supposed construction of Papagelopoulos. Prosecutors were recruited. The defendants were asked to testify as witnesses in the case ‘NOVARTIS’. Persons involved in the NOVARTIS or accused in this scandal shall participate in the preliminary committee. We'll see all this along. Illegal and unconstitutional witnesses have been examined, as is apparent from the opinion of the Scientific Council of Parliament of 4 March 2020, which have nothing to do with the case investigated by the preliminary committee. The unprecedented, unconstitutional and illegal criminals and morally unacceptable actions against me have no beginning and end. In my lawyer Dimitris Tsovola's statement of 14-5-2020, he describes very little and quite indicative - because they are numerous - but very thoroughly justified, all the acts which are illegal and unconstitutional. But, ladies and gentlemen, I will not forge behind voidities, illegality and formalities. To me, gentlemen, it is the purpose of my life now the truth and the essence of the case. And this truth and this substance will be informed and the Greek people, who are quite intelligent and understand what toys are playing. However, despite efforts, the treasure is carbon and even muddy and south of the flood of lies and slanders. And then came the former prosecutor of the Ice Bay, Mrs. Demetrius. Her statement was a real hurricane, a long-lasting hurricane, a hurricane that dissolved and lured the garbage and impurities of lies and slander. Immediately commanded the systemic and intertwined means to silence the sensational revelations of Ms. Demetrius for Ms. Riku, Mr. Athanasios and Mr. Angelis. The Greek people should not have been informed that the "NOVARTIS" scandal is a scandal, that the prosecutors, who investigate it, have suffered everything to terrorize and that even mafia acts have been used, even at the expense of the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena. I'm not saying that. It's the Attorney of the Ice Bay. It was also ordered to submit a proposal to extend the indictment against me before Ms. Demetriou concludes her statement and completely destabilizes my prosecutors. The proposal was submitted and is based on the statements of the retired D. Tsatanis, the businessman Sabby Mionis and former financial prosecutor Panagiotis Athanasiou. These statements have been taken illegally and unconstitutionally, as I mentioned. The objective is obvious: To maintain - at least in communication - the attempt to cover the 'NOVARTIS' scandal and the great responsibilities for politicians, entrepreneurs and prosecutors who had to investigate the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, but also for other major scandals, but who covered it. And I'll prove it to you today. Furthermore, the opportunity was found to try to rinse other major scandals: The tax evasion of the Lagard list, the Vengeopoulos scandal, etc. I would remind you that the mine "NOOR 1" attempted to appear as a magma of mine. Oh, this moral advantage of the SYRIZA government is so annoying! So let us show up some huge scandals as a preparation if some naives believe it. For Mrs. Tsatani, Mr. Athanasios, Mr. Mionis and their statements, but also for Mr. Angelis and Mrs. Rykos, I could speak not hours but days. There's so much lies they've told, and I have all the evidence to prove it. The limited time of today's speech will not escape them. In the preliminary committee I will have the opportunity, at the same time, to refer, with creepy details, to the works and days of enemies and friends. However, today I am obliged to respond, as long as my brief speaking time and the tolerance of the President is allowed, to little by the critics and many lies they have made. So let's start on the road with Mrs Tsatani. I would remind you that Mrs Tsatani, in a coup d'état way, has removed from the sole competence of the Prosecutor against Corruption the case-file of scandal Vegeopoulos. He handled it and eventually filed it with provocatively unacceptable and illegal manipulations. Mrs. Chatani within seventy-two hours - at space speed! - studied, with unprecedented intelligence he understood thousands of pages of the case and with superhuman efforts he compiled and typed Vegeopoulos' exemption device, which numbered - if I remember correctly - eight hundred one pages. They deserve congratulations to Mrs Chatani. For three whole days she must not have eaten, slept or visited her bath. For the archives of the Scandal Vgenopoulos was informed before the archive, Vgenopoulos himself. And, indeed, he had the arrogance to warn it in the morning of the archiving. Mrs Tsatani was disciplinaryly punished by an irrevocable decision of the Second-Second Disciplinary Board of the Ice Bay. He said Mr. Ploris - I want to believe with ignorance and not intentionally - that Mrs. Tsatani had been rid of disciplinary action and then this huge method was carried out. It's untrue. She didn't become disciplinary for Mrs. Chatani. Mrs Tsatani was disciplinaryly punished and in these disciplinary cases the chosen of the New Democracy and of KINAL today, Mrs Ryku and Mr Angelis were tabled. Everything else is fantasy. It's a clue I didn't want to mention. I will mention this at the end, when we come to my referral, which is a preconceived decision, and I am sure it is. In both proposals - both initial and other - you have included false elements. One of the false evidence is that you say he was disciplinaryly relieved. He was never disciplinaryly discharged. A disciplinary officer became and it was punished. So, with such lies, you're trying to smash me, smash a previous government and drag me into the "weekend prints". What do we call "Saturday Fever"? Here are "The weekend forms" and it is because they are also "yellow fever". The Veneopoulou scandal caused huge financial damage, both in Greece and Cyprus. The collapse of the Cypriot economy is largely due to this. Mrs Tsatani sued her Cypriot colleagues who were cooperating and investigating the Vegeopulou scandal, because they disagreed with her illegal methods. Of course, the Greek justice and not the justice of Rasputin rejected its suspense. Her action was revealed by Mr. Angelis and, as I said before, also by Angeles and Riku, by beloveds today of the New Democracy and KINAL. Mrs Tsatani is a wife and mother and candidates of the New Democracy - I do not know whether this is of any importance - and she has already dealt with public opinion on discriminatory research in various cases. I will not go into this today because I lack time. There's a preliminary, and Mr. Bougas is here. I just want him prepared, when he calls me, to have great strength to what I'm about to say. The complaint against me was made by Mrs. Chatani a day before she filed the case. The diversion is obvious: in order not to turn the publicity lights into illegal - in the way I mentioned archiving - we denounce Papagelopoulos. Mrs. Tsatani has admitted that she visited me on her own initiative in my office, asked me to help her become the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Award and then denounced me. During her visit, Mrs Tsatani gave me particular credit topics and creepy details of a very big case that the Greeks have dealt with. He trusted me to justify the unprecedented cruelty he displayed to an innocent, good and good man who pressed her and why to behave like this. He claimed, in fact, that he was forced to display a harder behavior than he was, to confiscate him. But thankfully, Constantine Mitsotakis prevented it, which he hastened to consult. This fact was confirmed by Constantine Mitsotakis himself, and indeed there are witnesses to this debate I had with Constantine Mitsotakis after confirming it. So continue, gentlemen, on the road you have chosen. On the personal issues that Mrs Chatani has confiscated me, I have not yet concluded what to do. I guess I won't invoke them. All the rest, however, I have to reveal them when I'm summoned to the preliminary committee. I would like to say it today, but then the time I will have will not only be twenty minutes. Then we will see who is involved in justice, who build guilty men, who trouble innocent people, who make unequivocally and systematically on time. Mrs. Chatani, before she left my office, she left me a picture of her daughter. I'll present it to the preliminary. She gave me her phone. Where did I know about it to get her? - and he suggested I call her to meet me, like he told me. Mrs Tsatani, when I actually called her, reciprocated my phone call - she said that - and when she returned the phone call and talked to me, because she had time at the time, we exchanged wishes for Christmas. On the way, of course, they became "Christmas" - I know what he said - "if you want to have Christmas" etc. After my holidays he suggested that, when he was back from Crete, we should talk to you closely. Finally, I have to be a great master in extortion, so that my victims, like Mrs Tsatani, and the rest that appear as victims, seek my company, their blackmailer's company. That's what I'm talking about at the moment, Mrs. Chatani. There's too much. But I'll tell you, in the preliminary, that I'll have more time. Let us now see for too little, due to a lack of time, Mr Athanasios' statement. Mr Athanasios three years after the non-renewal of his term of office, which, as I shall say, wanted and sought in every way, lawful and illegal, was arguably arguably arguably arguably arguably arguably arguably arguably arguably arguably arguably arguably arguably arguably arguably arguably arguably arguably arguable. I don't want you to believe me, to think rationally, I just want you to think. Mr. Athanasios' testimony to the preliminary committee is illegal and unconstitutional. It has nothing to do with the NOVARTIS case it was investigating. The Scientific Council said so. It's all right, though. I'm not going to stand in nullities. The essence and the truth I want, and I'll tell her, and then we'll see the behavior of some people, where they'll go to hide. He confessed that he knows nothing about the NOVARTIS case. Instead of saying "go, sir, you have nothing", they kept asking him to see Papagelopoulos, Rasputin, Machiavelli, who he is, anyway. And not only did he say that he knows nothing about "NOVARTIS", but he said that forty years that he knows me and we work together at the same prosecutor's office, he has not heard from me or from anyone the name "Raspotin". I'm telling you this about the credibility of Mrs. Ryku, who will deal with her later. What Mr Athanasios has said has nothing to do with the case of the preliminary committee's investigation. It's sad, though, that the former financial prosecutor is trying to wash away today's big tax evasion scandal on the Lagard list. He dares and claims today, in order to facilitate Miones, that the four prosecutors' trip in September 2015 to Paris to examine Erve Faltsiani for the Lagard list was illegal. Talma and he claims that the four prosecutors who took the trip are a group that is affected by me. In the very least time I have and the tolerance you will show me, I will make known to the Greek Parliament, to my colleagues Mr Athanasios, especially to see who, but above all to the Greek people, the following: As soon as the four prosecutors returned from Paris, Mr. Athanasios asked them and sent him the information they had received from Falsiani. If the four prosecutors had outlawed them, would they? Would he be involved in their illegality too? Secondly, one month after the four prosecutors traveled to Paris, the Financial Prosecutor of which Mr. Athanasios was chief, he received a statement from a Swiss witness on the same case, on the Lagard list. Mr Athanasios himself sent this statement to the Prosecutors of Athens. How dare you today and claim that the Prosecutors' Prosecutors were unjustified and that the prosecutors were outlawed? If it was his responsibility, why did he send it to the Athens Prosecutors' Prosecutors and did he not keep it? After the return of the four prosecutors from Paris, Mr. Athanasios asked, with his signature, three of the four prosecutors, Mrs. Toulopakis, Mr. Juras and Mr. Kaloudis, who had examined Faltsini, to be seconded to his office. Mr. Zagoraios could not distract him because he was the head of the Athens Prosecutor. In addition, every year these three prosecutors were asked to remain seconded to his office. I have the impression that after Mr Athanasios left, the current financial prosecutor, Mrs Psaroudakis, renewed the secondment of the two prosecutors, because Mrs Toulopakis has become the prosecutor in the meantime, and still maintains them in their office. If, then, the four prosecutors were my team - the same Mr Mioney claims, but I will analyse them better afterwards - and they illegally, did Mr Athanasios participate in the criminal organisation that Mioney imagines and describes? These three prosecutors, Ms. Tulupaki, Mr. Juras, Mr. Kaloudi, in 2016, were ordered by Mr. Athanasiou to investigate and confiscation at the house of Stavros Papastavros for the Panama Papers. Besides, I've set up the list of Lagard since 2013, as Mr. Mioney says, I'm blackmailing him and I'm chasing him. These three prosecutors were sent by Mr. Athanasios himself - heed the hypocrisy and the size of the lie! - abroad to meet Falciani and obtain more information and explanations from him. Otherwise, it's my team and they were illegal to make it easier for me and SYRIZA. My most naive enemy cannot believe these things. We continue: Mr Athanasios called himself on 2 September 2015, that is before the public prosecutors' journey that I allegedly sent to them to serve Tsipras and SYRIZA, Stavros Papastavrou - Athanasios himself before his journey - and looked at him as a suspect in money laundering from criminal activity and tax evasion to a degree of crime. Besides, the Lagard list, the Mioney, Papastaurou, Metaxas surveys, is a construction of mine and my criminal organization. I ask again: does Mr Athanasios participate in this and Mr Athanasios? Apart from the effort of Panagiotis Athanasios to wash away the Lagard list scandal in his statement, he said other cases were supposed to be my intervention. So I have to answer all of his accusations, insinuations and insinuations and then widen the indictment! The continuation of the avenger political persecution holds many unpleasant surprises on many. Today at very high speed - time is very short and I have to say a lot of important - quite indicatively the following: the investigations by the financial prosecutors are confidential, all the prosecutors, much more of the financial prosecutors concerned with personal data, tax declarations, revenue and so on. If, therefore, what he claims is true, he must provide an explanation of how I knew his research. Did he let me know himself, or is he lying and not these words made? On Mr Alfouzouzou's case today: I have to be a big idiot, trying to influence Mr Athanasios and exposing myself to Mr Alfouzo. Everyone knows that Mr Athanasios is following the struggles of the Panathinaikos, and has very good relations with Mr Alfouzo. They are sitting, as Mr Kourtakis has published in the "PARAPOLITIKA" - and also photographs of them - next door - and they are called by their small names. Mr Athanasiou said that the commitment of the Alfouzou accounts was forced to do so without any further clarification. It must be explained by Mr Athanasios what he means by the word 'necessary'. How can a prosecutor be compelled? Did the evidence in this case obligate him to commit Alfouzu's accounts? Did the word 'necessarily' have to be an apology to Mr Alfouzo why he did not keep what he had promised? Did he also mention the so-called interest of Papagelopoulos in justifying Mr Alafouzo better? That is what Mr Alafuzu is talking about at the moment. The rest, too many, very important and extremely interesting for this case in the preliminary. For Mr. Sala and today, and for this matter I will say very little. For months Mr. Athanasios referred to the Sala cases. However, he was delaying the completion of the investigations. He wanted to prosecute shortly after his second term was completed, because he thought it was immoral that a prosecution against Sala would ensure that his term was renewed. When I was completely honest with him, I made it clear that there is no way that the Marios could renew his term of office for the third time, he began to approach other powerful SYRIZA officials and try to negotiate with them. There are witnesses for everything I'm saying. I'll propose to them, Mr. Buga, as long as you call them. It's gonna sound really interesting. It is a horrifying experience for me and my family, but it is also an opportunity for Greece to see what exists in various parts of the public life of the country and especially in justice. My god martyr, I didn't want to interfere with justice in this story. I have to defend myself. I apologize in advance to my colleagues for saying things I would never say. Mr. Salis would also be interested in calling Mr. Salis - it does not belong to SYRIZA, Mr. Buga, it will not be my witness - to tell you what happened with his affairs, but also his legal advisers who are well aware of the matter. What was the point of protecting Salla, a big banker, when Athanasios himself claims that I hate and hate bankers? For Mr. Papachristos now. Really, how can a prosecutor build evidence on a tax evasion case, as he said without embarrassing Mr. Athanasios? We're not talking about false witnesses, we're talking about documents and incomes. How can a prosecutor build these? Does Mr Athanasios have relevant know-how and we are ignoring it? The truth about Mr. Papachristos is quite different. Mr Athanasios himself told me that he has information about a secret account and asked me a cobbler - the prosecutors who listen to me understand what I mean because they know his style - if I care about this information and whether its exploitation would help him to renew his term of office. I have made it clear to him once again that he must decide that his term of office cannot be renewed, that he cannot remain in the office of the prosecutor. I did not hesitate to tell him that his insistence to remain in the office of the prosecutor for six years has been misunderstanding and has started to be discussed. Finally, I failed to say to him that with George Papachristos I had a good relationship, so I told him to do his job and not to blame him. That's all for now, Mr. Athanasios. A little patience in the case of Alfouzou, Sala, Papachristou and others in his statement and for others that he does not mention, there will be many and interesting revelations, for example - now it came to me - not only in the case of SIEMENS, but also in the case of the case of Mitsotakis in the course of the preliminary investigation. I repeat, gentlemen of the New Democracy, to hurt the Mitsotakis family. The aim, of course, was then Mrs Bakoyannis who was preparing for the leadership. It seemed that the New Democracy would lose the election and follow a succession. [[The ending bell of Mr. Dimitris Papagelopoulos' speaking time is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, I will ask for your tolerance. I have a lot to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u54	I told you there would be tolerance, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u55	Because I heard the bell, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u56	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no., no, no., no., no.,
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u57	I think they are of interest to what I say to the Greek Parliament and what I will say next. I repeat, of course, that the leaks were Mrs Bakoyannis. But the 'Sbara's' also got the current Prime Minister. You remember the leaks, I don't want to remind them, I don't like them. I remember the angry reaction of Constantine Mitsotakis - there was an angry reaction by Constantine Mitsotakis - and there are witnesses alive about the angry reaction of Constantine Mitsotakis, about the leaks, and I will reveal and how the leaks stopped. I cannot, however, say, the words of Constantine Mitsotakis still ring in my ears, "this punk must stop the leaks." And I'm ending with Mr. Athanasios. What credibility can a prosecutor who deceives the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, his service, the Ministry of Justice, his colleagues, and I don't know who else even takes part in an international conference and represents his country in a case that has shocked the planet, in a case where there are dead, he flees and goes to secret holidays? His personals don't care. I'm quite a liberal man, even though I'm a left-wing minister. My only relationship to the liberal party is that I'm a liberal man. I'm only interested in his service and his credibility or his unreliability, and I'll show them in detail in the next stages. However, from the evil procession to cover up - the spread of another great scandal, the Lagard scandal, it was not possible for Mrs Ryku not to participate. I would remind you that Mrs Ryku resigned on 24 March 2017. In her resignation letter she mentions nothing about me, nothing about Rasputin, nothing about any pressure or interference in her work. On the contrary, it characterises NoVARTIS as a crown of scandals, refers to corrupt state officials, possibly politicians, referring to "black" political money of EUR 28 million and claims that it has been targeted by corrupt state officials and major health interests. Rasputin had not then flooded her imagination and thought, unless she meant that I was in collaboration with Mr. Fruz. That's why you haven't blamed me yet. You have room! After eighteen months, when it was revealed that there were transfers of NOVARTIS in its common account, Mrs Ryku panicked. Absolutely understandable. On the account of the prosecutor investigating the scandal crown, as she described the scandal as a scandal, "NOVARTIS" has sent money rather than one, as they lie, not two, but three times, without legal, even de facto, cause. The contract justifying the transfer of NOVARTIS was destroyed by a flood in Mrs Ryku's basement. Ms. Ryuku now began to leak into the press after eighteen months that there is supposedly a Rasputin in the field of justice. She herself - look out! - and after eighteen months, he didn't dare name himself to say nonsense about Rasputin. After three years, Mrs Ryku on the preliminary committee was forced to admit - take care of me a little, I want someone to listen anyway to me in this place - that once and only 15 years ago, in 2005, I had been called 'Raspoutin' before her, but that only she heard it and no one else. The place is upset, justice is upset, I am ruthlessly persecuted, because 15 years ago I told Riku that I was Rasputin. And he remembered it now! I've got a long way with Mrs. Ryku. No prosecutor, no judge from the thousands of Greek judges and prosecutors, any Greek of the millions of Greeks has heard and knows nothing about Rasputin. Only Riku heard it, as we said, 15 years ago at my office. And as far as the lack of historical knowledge is concerned, I did not repeat it, I had said it, they make a fool of talking, but the very same one lying. What will be revealed and derived from the thousands of pages of the case-file, to which I legally have access now - at my request - will be overwhelming. For appetizers, I will inform you today of something, as this is the case-file that I have legally, as much as I have, because you think that you are going so quickly to my expense to exterminate me, that I have not yet received Mr. Pope's statement, who testified for Mionis. And yet, I'm going to challenge the charges. It's okay, I have time! Even in the special court to go, I'll have more time. And there the procedures will be inconsistent. So, for appetizers today, I inform you that, when Mrs Ryku resigned, she was informed that she would receive the names of doctors who took them from NOVARTIS. The relevant documents were received by Mrs Ryku before she left the office of the prosecutor for corruption. So Mrs. Riku knew about the transfers, and she also knew she couldn't justify them. Because, then, she had her nest dirty, after she resigned, she tried to maintain good relations with me. We did not only meet once, as she had to admit in her statement to the preliminary committee. Mr. Flouris, you said he sent a message to Mr. Contonis, and I didn't. He saw me in private, didn't he? And there are witnesses. He sent him a message because he was really ashamed. He had visited him before he resigned, as he had visited me. But what am I supposed to say now? We're gonna waste our time. Let me say another much more important one. So we met not one, but two or three times at least two, three people apart from both of us, at meals that were not random social events, but which she herself did, as she chose for fellow believers she trusted. For me, he knew I wasn't talking. He knew I was an idiot and a romantic, but he didn't know the reaction of an idiot and a romantic. And she and others will now see the reaction of the idiot and the romantic. For everything I tell you, there are witnesses. Mr. Flouris called me after six months, in October 2017, to wish me a wish. I'm just finishing up with Mrs. Riku to see what kind of games they're playing. On September 23, 2019 now, six months ago, just before my preliminary weight, Mrs. Ryku submitted in two instalments to the prosecutor of the Ice Bay in the case of "NOVARTIS" and "Raspoutin" etc. In her first statement she mentions nothing about Rasputin. But she returns after her statement has been completed and her departure from the Marios Ice. Why? He must have a sense of humor. He claimed that he forgot to refer to Rasputin. Look out! He is required to testify to a prosecutor at the Ice Bay for Rasputin's interventions and forgets to refer to him. The whole place because of it and because of its leaks has been dealing with Rasputin for several months, but Mrs. Riku forgets to mention anything about Rasputin when she is asked to testify for him. Eventually, it's Mrs. Ryku! Forgot Rasputin, forget about the transfer of "NOVARTIS" and has forgotten much more. It's okay, I'll remind her everything. Also, in her second statement, Mrs Ryku refers for the first time to Sabby Mionis and to his dispute with Gianna Papadakou. Its reference to a private dispute has no logical link with the remainder of its statement, initial and additional. I have noted here to say exactly what he said. He said things he doesn't think that a third prosecutor can't know. This point, however, is revealing and evidence at the same time of the gang and the methods that really exist to cover up, to rinse out the "NOVARTIS" scandal, but also the Lagard scandal. It is clear that Mrs Ryku, like Mr Athanasios, is in agreement with Mr Mionis and they are trying to justify their call to the preliminary committee, which, I repeat, had nothing to do with Mionis. Yet, with reports of Riku and Athanasios, the ground is being prepared. There is also Kourtakis in PARAPOLITICA, who a year ago talks about the deposit of Mionis and about the tapes - the illegal ones - which he has at my expense. So if there are articles, actions that show gangs, you have to look for them elsewhere. If there are four newspapers of “DIMMOCRATIA” and one of Papadakou, I have kept three paws up here in my home with headlines that aim me and refer to future events, they state what will happen. What morbid mind coordinates and guides these journalists, prosecutors and businessmen? As I said, the statement by Mr Athanasios and Mr Athanasios before something was seen on the horizon had been announced by Mr Kourtakis at the PARAPOLITICA. Mr. Kourtakis either has the divine gift of insight or is vulgar, at least in journalism! In the evolution of this story we will see who the blackmailers are and who the victims are, we will see who the gangbangers are. I am now going to call them "fornicators", so to play, because they are robbing the Greek people. And I'm ending up with Mr. Mioney. Mionis, according to press reports, was either a partner or a partner of Stavros Papastavros, a friend, advisor and associate of Antonis Samaras. Mioney, according to press reports, is always reported to manage with his companies and associates 55% of total deposits of two billion euros - on the Langard list. Now, of course, he claims that this is not the case and that it is lies and construction. But there's a statement on his step by step, I think. I'll take it to Mr. Buga in the next few days. There is a confession at the step of the examination that was set up in 2012, which was Mrs Konstantopoulou and Mr. Kalantzis, who said "yes, I am a manager". You'll choose today when Mr. Mononis is telling the truth and when he's lying. I met Mionis for the first time and only four years ago in Nikos Pappas' office. This meeting was held on the initiative and persistent requests of Mionis himself. As Mr. Pappas informed me, the Prime Minister of Israel had also intervened. At first I refused to meet with Mioney. I must admit that I had been negatively affected by all the press releases and web posts for his involvement in the Langard list and his business activity in general. Also, according to the surrounding atmosphere, which he used to feed, either by statements or by leaks, he was involved in dealing with secret services. Look at the publications of that time. Then I was a retired person, so you know, I don't have anything to do with this. Furthermore, it was written in the press that he recorded or attempted to record Members of the Greek Parliament, Mr Calantzis from New Democracy and Mrs Konstantopoulou from SYRIZA at the time, when they examined him as a witness for the Lagard case in 2012 or 2013. This examination was carried out, as I said, in 2012 or 2013. Then I've been a retired for three years. I became Minister after another three years. SYRIZA wasn't a government. I probably hadn't met Alexis Tsipras at the time or maybe I'd met him. The Greek Parliament's investigation into the Langard list, Papastavros and Mionis is not my work and my 'crime organisation', as Mr Mioney unscrupulously claimed in 2020, after eight years. I remember that in 2013 Mr Mioney had refused to appear in the committee because he considered that they were members of the extreme right-wing elements and Nazis. Finally, he agreed to be examined by the committee in Israel, so as not to appear before the extreme right, provided that particular persons do not participate in the step. Similar behaviour and disrespect to the Members of the Greek Parliament also demonstrated during his recent statement to the preliminary committee. He forced Mr. Plearis to declare a disease so he wouldn't be present when he testified, because he also thinks he's nazi. But Mr. Ploris made the mistake of appearing on the same day at the 'MEGA'. Thus, the pretext disease of Plori and the satisfaction of the degrading demand of the Greek Parliament by Mioney, a requirement that would ensure that he comes to testify and tell lies and irrationalities at the expense of Papagelopoulos, four years after our meeting, was realized. But let me return to the Pappa, Papaggioulou, Mionis, March 10, 2016. As I have already said, I did not want to meet at first. Finally, I agreed to meet, because Mr Papapas invoked grounds of national interest, the great geostrategic importance of relations between Greece and Israel and the interest of the Israeli Prime Minister. I completely forgot about the meeting, because for me he had no interest in it. I was remembranced by various newspapers known to perform contracts and special missions taking on weekend papers. It's what I said before about the yellow type of the weekend. At first I didn't pay much attention. I thought it was another of the many attempts by the known blackmailers or the officials of known masters to drown me. But after a while, the prosecutors Ryuku and Athanasiou reported in their false statements! It was now obvious that the little releases of the weekend with their succumbings prepared, unfortunately with Ms. Ryku and Mr. Athanasios, Mioney's testimony and made it easier for him to rinse another very big scandal: the huge tax evasion of the Langard list. I was so sad by the prosecutors Ryku and Athanasiou, who had been working to combat corruption, the great economic crime, the great tax evasion to cooperate so uncoveredly with Mionis, to show the great scandal of the Langard list as my own. With these unambiguous practices, Mionis was asked to testify to the preliminary illegal and unconstitutional. I said it, I'm just reminding you. The committee was set up for another thing. Article 86 is clear. No investigation can be done at my expense, no preliminary, if there is no decision of the House. Nevertheless, we are investigating everything, as long as we find out about Papaggiopoulou, which we know we will not find, time to win, to say that SYRIZA and Papaggiopoulou were on! The moral advantage will eat you. Because, as I said before, I had forgotten about the meeting with Mionis, I asked Mr. Pappas to remind me of the content of our conversation. According to what Mr Pappas reminded me and what I could recall from my memory, the meeting lasted very little, over half an hour, a little less. When I arrived at the Poppa's office, Mioney was already there. I don't know how long and what they had discussed with Mr. Pappa. A few minutes after I arrived at Mr. Pappa's office, I realized that something is wrong with Mr. Mionis. With a very intense look, almost outrageous situation, he asked us to intervene in pending court cases, because he considered that Greek judges and prosecutors are strongly anti-Semitisms. He also accused someone else of leading the criminal organization. I've got the paperwork from him. Patience to have. I'll let them read to please when you have melancholy. He also accused Mr Voridis, the current Minister of the New Democracy and Mr Filippakis, who I had just met him at the time, and indeed because of the New Democracy I had known him. I was sent to help him out a little bit in the Justice Department report.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u58	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u59	What did you say? I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u60	Please, Mr. Comrade. Respect for Mr. Papaggiopoulou. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u61	Don't worry. The torture today for some is almost over. But the great torture begins in the preliminary, and I wholeheartedly wish I could go to the special court to continue to torture you with the truth and substance of the case. So I repeat that he accused Mr. Vorides and Mr. Filipakis, who had met him two months ago. Otherwise, he is my lieutenant in the criminal organisation that had been set up since 2013 by the criminal organisation. Who met me Filippaki? I told you. Highest neo-democrats to facilitate his newspaper in a report by the Ministry of Justice! Everyone's asking me for help, everyone's taking advantage of me, and then they're abusing me. He even said about Mr Filipakis and Mr Voridis - I have them on paper and as I said, I will present them shortly - that they are members of an international Nazi organization and that - because they were Jewish - for many years they have been chasing him and affecting Greek justice against him. Since 2020, I have been doing this, instead of Mr. Vorides. Mr. Pappas, who knew him, tried to calm him down, but in vain. I hardly participated in the debate. In addition to my negative pretext for Miones, for the reasons I have just said, his extremist behaviour and incomprehensible, irrational claims for anti-Semitism, prosecutors, judges, Nazi MPs of the New Democracy and publishers have led me to conclude that something is wrong with this story. I invoked a workload and attempted two - three times to leave Mr. Pappas' office, but Mr. Pappas prevented me with secret meanings and whispered me the name 'Netanyahu', that is to say 'Do patience'. In Mr Papapa's meanings, I also responded with secret meanings, not to repeat them now, you know what I mean, that something is wrong and what man says. Look, I thought it was nonsense for Mr. Voridis. What he says about me you adopt them. That's our difference. Because neither Mr. Papas nor I adopted conspiracy theories for anti-Semitisms, Nazis, judges, MPs who persecute him, nor mainly because we refused to intervene in justice, as he urgently asked us, Mioney departed in a more extreme situation than when I found him and angry now threatened us: "You don't know what a Jew is. With the wrong Jew, you put it. You will see what will happen to you." Previously we had assured him that there is no possibility of intervention in Greek and that it is unfair and unreasonable to charges directed against Greek judges and prosecutors. For Mr. Voridis, we said, "Hey, tell the New Democracy" and for Mr. Filippiki to compromise the disputes and litigation he had with him. Now notice an important element I would not know if Mioney himself had not said so. Well, when I finish studying the deposits... I found these now on a wheelchair, struggling to catch up. You know, my appearance today, I treated her as a teenager, who's gonna go on the first day or the first date, not to happen, and I don't come, don't get sick. I just wanted to say it, listen to it. Trust me! You know, when we go on the first date or the first five days, we say, "Oh, don't happen and I don't go." That's how I felt, don't get sick, don't hurt, and I can't come. Because then, of course, you would go out and say, "He was afraid and did not show up." Your tactics are familiar. So I saw, at a point in Mioney's testimony, that when he left out of the way I said to you, he said it himself, returned the same day after a while after Mr. Papa's office and gave him a note with his demands. Mioney says it! Look at it, Mr Buga, you are the chairman of the committee, you will have seen it, I am sure. I was ignoring this detail. I was informed when I received a copy of Mioney's statement. It's unprecedented, terrible, unexplained what's happening. All blackmailers from me, Mioney, Chatany, Riku, Athanasios, meet on their own initiative with their blackmailer and are blackmailed by him. They're coming alone! He's on his own. In the case of Mioney, the blackmailer has rushed back to the scene - his alleged blackmail - on his own initiative to continue blackmailing at his expense. There is no doubt, therefore, that the meeting of the three of us in the Pope's office took place at the initiative of Mionis rather than the Pope or my own, in order to ask for political intervention in favour of justice. And even though we refused him, he returned to insist and submit a note with his illegal demands. Since then, four years have passed, and suddenly Minonis remembered or reminded him that, at the only meeting we had, I blackmailed him and that I am the leader of a criminal organisation with members of prosecutors, judges, publishers, journalists who merged articles and prosecutions. Mr Ploris said these things and I wondered: Is it possible for a young man to say so, that they had drunken articles and prosecutions at the expense of the same and the partners of Papastavros and Metaxas? Ladies and gentlemen, the publications on the Langard list, Mionis, Papastavros and Metaxas from the newspaper "Dimoratia" by Philippaki, as well as other newspapers and various journalists, including Ms Papadakou, started in 2012, perhaps just before. SYRIZA was a small party then. I have already been retired since 2009 and until I became Minister for another four years. I did not know - as I told you - neither Mioney nor Philippeke nor Darka nor all of them. Even Alexis Tsipras theme to have met him then. [[This is where the President-in-Office is occupying Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, Vice-President of Parliament.]] Nevertheless, Mionis claims before the preliminary committee that the publications and surveys on the Langard list, Papastavrous, Metaxas and myself were my work and my criminal organization. It was a make! And listen - it will drive us all crazy - and rehearsal gianrale - it says - in the case of 'NOVARTIS'. In 2012, then, I set up the Langard list, which Germany and France have received EUR 5 billion and EUR 3 billion from it. We didn't get anything, but of course we had Mr. Athanasios, he didn't have time to go on vacation. It says, therefore, that I set up this in 2012 and 2013 and was a rehearsal for "NOVARTIS". He says these things in front of Greek MPs and the committee listens to him, while he had to follow - it is so obvious that lies and falsehood - the self-destruct procedure, call local police officers in blue uniforms or even some others in other colors of doubt for the further. But the majority of her preferred to listen to him with religious devotion, to encourage him to say all of this and to protect him throughout his statement. This statement calls on the Greek Parliament today to broaden the indictment against me. The whole testament is full of lies and irrationalities. Note, if you have not noticed those who participate in the pre-examination committee, he swore on oath that he appealed to the English courts against Philippa and Papadakou, because - he says - he was afraid of Papaggiopoulou and the criminal group by prosecutors I have in Greek justice. Of course, the English courts appealed in 2013 and 2014 when I was a retired and fed the kittens of my neighborhood. He went in 2013 to English justice because he was afraid of me! At another point in his statement the same day he forgets what he said and what he says? That in the English courts against Philippaki - Papadakou appealed because in England there are Greek-speaking readers who read the relevant publications. It is dangerous for democracy, gentlemen, that the press is fading. Wherever there are Greek speakers we can resort, knee the press, especially if we have money. He can't follow us. At another point in his statement, Mr Mionis said that he has made available his case to the English courts of EUR 600,000 - account for it - to fade any journalists who are not disciplined. With this, then, the false lie, that there are Greek-speaking readers in London and that they read the publications of Philippaki and Papadakou, is getting them into an eight-year dispute, with the sole aim of not writing about him. Really, what is he afraid of, and what does the rich and successful businessman want to hide? In order to enhance the joke, but at the same time a bad scenario for Greek justice, that there is supposedly a criminal organisation involving judicial officers, including prosecutors who went to Paris - take care of them, because they investigated the Langard list - but also anti-corruption prosecutors - another group of prosecutors - they are doing another huge mistake. He invoked a newspaper post - it was just me that had become Minister in the mid-2015 period - which refers to the period 2003-2006 as Head of the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's and the names of young public prosecutors, whom I trusted and entrusted important tasks, in the context of the restructuring of the prosecutor's office and the renewal that I made at the time. Without any reasonable pretext, he repeats many times in his statement: "The students of Papagelopoulos", "the children of Papagelopoulos", "the gang", the criminal organization, in any case, of Papagelopoulos. Is the influence on Mr Mionis of successful advertising with the sympathetic kid "Trofil"? Crophilis? Anyway, criminal organization. But Mr. Mioney is neither a child nor a steward, he shows, nor a sympathetic man, that he can convince. The anti-corruption prosecutors who went to Paris do not refer, apart from one, to the press quoted by Mioney to say that I have a team. And you know why they're not listed? Other of them came to the judiciary when I was no longer in charge, I have left the Attorney's Office. I mean, after 2006. They weren't even judges. And yet they're on my team. How do you hear that, gentlemen? Others became prosecutors when I became chief and were transferred to the province. I sat down and looked for the yearbooks and saw them. Therefore, apart from Mrs Tulupaki and Mr Zagoraeus, all the others, about ten prosecutors who say that they are members of my criminal organisation, I have not met them. On the way to see them, I won't meet them. They wouldn't know me if I hadn't been honoured with the headlines by some newspapers. Mioney's feud with Mr. Voridis and Philippakis comes from far away. Since the years of the American College, when they were classmates. Needless to say, I have nothing to do with college. Do I look like a college boy to you? I'm looking at another thing. Rasputin, up! Their conflict has culminated in recent years. The newspaper "Dimoratia" dealt with the Langard list, with Mr. Papastavrous, with Mr. Mononis. There have been reports of other newspapers. Among these and the Step Ms. Papadakou was working. At the same time, Mrs Papadakou worked in Vima, went to Paris on the command of Psykhi, paid her the expenses of the Step, then took a job in Psarapolistica. This whole time he was part of my gang. Aren't you going to call Mr. Psyghi and Mr. Kourtakis for my accomplices? He worked for them. They were paying her expenses. Myonis' court disputes with Philippakis and Papadakou continue for eight years from 2012-2013. In this period, apart from the lawsuits and lawsuits in Greece and England, there were many attempts to compromise. There were too many people involved: the rivals themselves, their lawyers, Greeks and Israelis. Their lawyers should also be summoned to examine, if the indictment is extended, Mr. Buga, to tell you how the wonderful compromises were made. It is a good thing for the end: for the agreement that Mr Ploris has invoked, perverting and falsifying the truth. So these efforts were the opponents, lawyers, Greek lawyers, Israelis, representatives of the opponents, representatives, Mr. Antonis Samaras and his close colleagues. I'm not saying their names. I don't have to get them into trouble. In fact, as Mr Samaras had to admit, forty-five days later, and I was met by Mr Samaras. He was forced to admit it after forty-five days, ignorant silence, to help them with the Minonis and Papastavrous. He claimed, of course, after the forty-five days, after he thought, that I asked him to see him and I promised him that I would protect Papastavros. I didn't have it for him that Mr. Samaras has such a sense of humor. Whoever believes in him believes him. Not to insist, please, on public affairs, on the background, I know he's taking over from me. I will have to remind him of the exact content of our conversation that day. How he went to charge Papastavros to another person for whom he spoke and with inappropriate words. I will remind him of other talks and inappropriate behaviour, not to me, but to others. I don't reveal private conversations. I don't want to fall to the level of Riku, Athanasios. But you know? There is also the right to defence. It's human, you know. He can give it to me sometimes. How much longer can that poor guy stand?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u62	What can you bear?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u63	Did I say anything bad and bother? I'm very careful, and I haven't said anything yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u64	Oh, no. I'm talking about them downstairs. To be quiet, let's watch you. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u65	I can therefore remind you of many conversations and many inappropriate remarks for others, not for me. In this eight-year period of intense judicial conflict and parallel efforts to compromise between Mioney and Philippakis, my participation was a single meeting of over half an hour which took place at the initiative of Mr Papapas at the request of Mioney and the mediation of Netanyahu. During these eight years, the Mionei - Philippakis reached a compromise at least twice. On 13 November 2013. Not to say the same again, I was feeding my kittens. And on 18 March 2018. Now for anyone who bruises in the future, I will offer a reading to cheer up. Also, on April 22, 2019, Mionis, a year before he appeared out of nowhere and after he was prepared by Ryku and Athanasios, appealed to Israeli justice and asked him to be allowed to file a lawsuit against Philippakis, Darka, Papadakou and others, who as members of a criminal organisation led by Maki Voridis, had targeted him with articles. Here's the lawsuit. He's been persecuted and blackmailed. It also refers this time to the Langard list, Papastaurou and Metaxas. In this request Mr Miounis refers extensively to the nazi past of Mr Voridis and Mr Plori. Especially Mr. Voridis is trying to show him that he has international Nazi activities. I don't want to repeat it. I'm talking about the joke. But because he is invincible too, like Ms. Ryku - I've finally rallyed toward me the unscrupulous - he is lured by the name Jean Marie Leppen, "Zan Marie" thinks it as a female genus and confuses Jean Marie Leppen, who was involved with his daughter. Of course Israeli justice rejected this nonsense. I would like to submit to the minutes Mr Mioney's request a year ago that accuses Mr Vorides as leader of the criminal organization, which I probably succeeded without being summoned to the reception ceremony. [[Applause]] [[At this point Mr Dimitris Papaggiopoulou presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] This is a request for treatment, for anyone who is reluctant or melancholic, to have fun with what Mr Mioney said a year ago about Mr Vorides, Mr Plori, Mr Papapa, Mr Filipakis, Mrs Papadakou. A year later, who knows what he's told him - we'll see that too - the leader of the organization changes. He's not the Voridis chief. It's Papagelopoulos, for the Langard list again. Gentlemen, you're broadening the indictment. Do not convict me. Execute me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u66	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u67	Mr. Polakis, let him go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u68	How are you going to look at your story and fans in the face after? So after a year, Mionis denounces me. While SYRIZA was a government, he sought to have good relations with his ministers. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, I'm reaching a critical point. In my opinion. It may be bullshit, but let's hear it. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u69	Please let him finish. Please, Mr. Polakis, Mr. Plearis. Aren't you tired of interrupting? Please, Mr. Polakis. Mr. Florie, I don't know what's wrong with him. The doctor will see it. Go on, Mr. Papagelopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u70	We said Israeli justice rejected this nonsense. The Greek Parliament, probably the preliminary committee, adopted them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u71	Tell us about the money, though. It's a lot of money, Paul!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u72	Don't be in a hurry. I'm leaving it for the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u73	Mr. Marcopoulou, please. When your time comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u74	I leave it for the end, and if you want, I'll give a press conference about it. I understand Mr Markopoulos because he is not a legal person and has been taken away from the theories that the lawyers have told him. But I'm going to put him in the right place and go ask a third person about that money. We said, the Israeli Embassy rejected it. So while SYRIZA was a government, he sought to have good relations with his ministers and accused Vorides of extortion and leader of a criminal organization. He even wrote in the 'AGEY' and the 'Pressors' Newspaper' against Mr Vorides. I'll get you the relevant papers, I didn't have time today, I was nervous, as I told you. I'll get you to the commission to see all this. As soon as the government changed, the leader of the criminal organization, who is blackmailing and persecuting him, changed. Mr Vorides' position, I took it. Is there going to be a reward for this change in Mr. Mioney's testimony? Is there going to be a reward for Mr. Athanasios too? I read in PARAPOLITICA, Mr Kurtakis, that Mr Athanasios is once again seeking to become an economic prosecutor. Let's see how much Papagelopoulos and the testimonies are costing him. But let us come back to Mr Mionis. Eight years after the publications of Philippaki and Papadakou, eight years of litigation with them, four years after our one and only meeting, he claims that I blackmailed him before the Pope. How stupid or crazy would I be to blackmail him in front of another minister, too? The next day, wouldn't Tsipras send me home? Mr. Pappas, of course, clearly disproved Mionis. We are now entering the chase, Mr. Marcopoulou. If you want to be careful with me a little bit. Of course, I can send you my speech later, study it. In his denial at my expense, which Mion or fully symptomically the day he testified to the preliminary committee - on the same day, he had to be legitimized, he said, "I have also sued him", where I remembered all this - he claims that in the debate he had with the Pope on a compromise settlement of his issues with Philippes, there was my own intervention. Be careful, he says a discussion of this and the Pope and an intervention of mine. According to his message, my intervention was "additional". What does it mean to be complementary? He admits that I did not participate in the debate. That makes sense. But, it's okay, don't accept it, I have more arguments. Also, according to his complaint - which he filed - I am telling you in addition on the day that he appeared in the preliminary, but he said other words in the preliminary to the complaint - my intervention was only twelve words. I have legal copies of his lawsuit, I received them, not to mention leaks. He says, therefore, self-sufficient with introductorys - he may have had a tape and remembered to write it like that, I don't know - that I said to him: "And the costs he has done so far and you have created him." My reasonable question, which was raised with only twelve words about the costs of the other side at a meeting, on the subject of a legal compromise, which took place at the initiative of Mionis, attempts to extort it, when even before I intervened, was at this meeting for the money it has spent on the treatments in England. He raised the matter of costs, and I was right to say: 'Well, what about the other one?' This outrageous claim is perceived even by Mioney himself. Now is the beginning of fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u75	How much longer will it take?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u76	Five minutes, Mr. President. We're in the nice place now that I've promised Mr. Markopoulos. So he tries, in his statement to the preliminary committee, to improve his irrationalities and strengthen his claims that I have allegedly blackmailed him. Initially, he falsely testifies that I asked him for money to close his cases in justice. Then in the same statement, he retreats and testifies - in the same statement, the same day - that I asked for the money on behalf of Philippe. He said at the outset "Papiggiopoulou asked for a close." to become the relevant communication blow against Papagelopoulos, "Papiggiopoulou asked for money". He understands he's not standing around turning them. It's on Philip's behalf. In fact, he said that this amounted to EUR 350 000. On the same day, in the same statement, he then admits that I did not mention any amount to him, but that he later identified, namely a number of months later, Philippe. Immediately afterwards, new fucking papa is forced to admit that this money he said was court expenses that Philippes had done. Shortly afterward, he recalls that I did not ask him to pay the costs, but I vaguely referred to costs. Ladies and gentlemen, in a debate on a judicial settlement, what can it cover? Marriage expenses, holiday expenses, clothing expenses? In addition to the contradictions, revolts, reversals and absurdities, Mionis to strengthen his false claims, uses in the lawsuit he filed, as we said, on the same day, excerpts of self-determination from other witnesses who were examined in the preliminary. When he wasn't asked how he owned classified documents, he avoided answering. Another proof of my practice, another crime committed against me. Does the preliminary committee refer Mioney to the prosecutor for these crimes? Submission of documents, violation of secrecy meetings? Well, the rest we'll see, we've got a lot more. So from eight years of harsh dispute in Greece and abroad Mr.Mionis has committed or seized assets of Philippaki, Tarkas, Papadakou. It has forced Philip to sign two compromise agreements, it has received 80 000 euros from him and it has received a guarantee and a cheque of 200 000 euros. Think, if my criminal organization hadn't blackmailed him, which before me had Chief Borides, it's not excluded because of debts that he would have sold them to any slave slaves. That's all he took them with a criminal organization at his expense. He has the courageous second compromise, the roadmap signed on 18 March 2018, to show it as proof of his alleged blackmail. Legally, the thought is ridiculous, I won't deal with the law. I care about the substance. I'm just saying, this agreement is completely irrelevant to Philippe's expenses. It does not refer to them, so it cannot be linked to the alleged blackmail that I allegedly made two years ago. Its text was written exclusively on the part of Mionis. I said if you dare call both sides' lawyers. So the text was made from the point of view of Mioney. Philippakis was forced to sign it as a blackmailer because he was in a bad financial position and in a failure to pay his obligations, due to the judicial dispute that had dragged him into England and the commitment to his account. Even at the press agency in Argos, Mioney had been banned if I remember correctly, giving the receipts. Otherwise, he was blackmailed. And now, let's get in a little bit of the junk. This evidence, which demonstrates Philippe's commitments, is a translation of an English stereotype of legal texts, according to English-Saxon law, largely common in practice. Mr. Filipakis will tell you when you call him. In this text, the stages of the development of court cases do not constitute an obligation or commitment of Philippakis, as Miones falsely claims, once again twisting the truth, in order to support his nonsense of alleged blackmail. Take the text in front of you and see it. They are simply referred to as provided by the existing legislation. Besides, they are a separate chapter from the obligations of Philippaki and Mioney. What obligations, then, did Philippakis take? Don't you shoot me directly to finish with me? Do you have to say such things?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u77	Please! Mr. Marcopoulou, have you changed your partner now? Please, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, every man leaves his print in his life. The unjust and vengeful political persecution against me has caused great suffering and grief to me and my family. At the same time, however, it ensures my own imprint in life to strengthen and conform to the fingerprints of others who are very greedy and imprinted on dirty and mudded soil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u79	Thank you very much to the former Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr. Papagelopoulos. He gave a lot of topics for discussion. I know what happens next. We're going to the second circle of speakers and we're going to have a cheek with Mr. Karaguni. We are not interrupting, not interrupting, so that we can continue as we have done in peace. And then there's Mrs. Aegir. Here, Mr. Karaguni, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Special Parliamentary Committee from my institutional role, namely - and I think that this applies to all those involved in the committee - our task is neither to prepait the special committee, where I too have the honour to participate - that is to say, we must observe our institutions, constitution and legal order - nor, of course, I intend to discredit this committee for which I have been working together with all my fellow Members. Contrary to some who insist on calling it "vatterlo" for their own reasons, it has of course done a very important job and there have come to the surface elements and indications that today we are forced to be here and to be called upon to decide on the broadening of the indictment. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot comment or praise what Mr Papagelopoulos said for good and self-evident reasons. I respectfully hear what he has to say and what he said so far. Every controlled person has the absolute right to defend himself in the way he believes. These will then be decided. I have heard things that have been said and many would obviously like to say things, but we cannot talk about them. I heard you say that there was a raid on Mr. Papastavrous's house, which has never been done and I'm talking about things that have been judged. It's awkward and obviously impossible to get into such events and talk. And I say this for Mr Papastavrous, because he is a citizen who has been justified by Greek justice on the substance of the matter. Obviously, it is not our role in the committee that we should respond to Mr Papagelopoulos. What is true and what is not the case is something that will be examined in detail next, where we will all try in the framework of the law and the Constitution to seek the truth. I also heard the reports on the former Prime Minister, Antony Samaras. I would suggest that the only reference that could be said about the person of the former Prime Minister is only an explicit and straightforward statement of apology. Because more than two years and more political persons - Mr Kegeroglu also said so - were hanged in the handkerchiefs with a series of publications, with statements by ministers and government players. Justice investigated the case and found that what slanderous and defamatory were said against it was both nonexistent and fantastic. It's still not the first apology, and some people are on the same slippery road. But to come to the object. First of all, I heard what the rapporteur of the Staff Regulations said. I was also informed of what Mr Papagelopoulos' advocate, but in a sense he repeated it just now, at least at the beginning of his position. And I must say - and I think anyone following this process in Greek society will say the same - that the important things are not what are said but what is not said. Because I hear the allegations put forward both about the secrecy of the procedure and the presumption of innocence and about the fair trial and, more generally, about the pleas in law that have a procedural nature. But it is surprising - and I would say very eloquent - that all these claims dominated the positions of those who do not want the indictment to be extended. So, on the question of procedural objections, will I ask the following question: ladies and gentlemen, is that the matter, the procedural question, to prepare objections to avoid the substance of the debate? I think that from what I heard, Mr. Papagelopoulos, he doesn't believe it anymore. But let me make a reference to what Mr. Lappas said. He referred to the Minutes and the appeal made to them by our rapporteur in his speech. But for the record you are saying, Mr Lappa, that we are revealing is what has already been passed on to the House. So that's the point? These practices have been used. And it seems to me to make such reports of secrecy, while in his speech Mr. Lappas told us that he knew and knows who the protected witnesses are with certainty, with certainty, that they are now employees of NOVARTIS. I have the impression, ladies and gentlemen - and I think those involved in the committee - that the first time we hear that they are now workers. What my colleague said I wanted to know how he knows, who they are and where they are from. So it teaches us about the secrecy of the process when it comes to such events. However, let us go to the point of the matter as well. Mr Papagelopoulos, ladies and gentlemen, is not an accidental man. He took on a crucial institutional role as Deputy Minister of Justice, with responsibility for corruption and any reproach against him for illegal acts and even illegal acts with characteristics of corruption - that is, the evil from which the Greek society has assigned us to protect us - he should, in my humble view, have as my only acceptable defender the essential refusal and rehearsal. Because the issues of the responsibility of the Ministers - and this procedure shows it very clearly - are not just criminal matters. What I believe, ladies and gentlemen, is that we have an issue here which, in addition to this dimension, has much more than any other relevant case of moral, political and fair time. The citizen is entitled to know. The man who the Greek society trusted in the fight against corruption was the one who finally served it? It is the same class of question, which is not exhausted by the legal dimension of the case, as in the case of a persecutor whose state has trusted to preach public money, he finally puts it in his pocket. Or like a police officer who the state has trusted to prosecute common crime, to be arrested in it. Such cases could be said in the case of teachers, doctors, judiciary and any other person undertake a public task. The essential point, ladies and gentlemen, is that we have an excellent procedure here and, if we look at these dimensions, we will understand that the broadening of the indictment we are discussing is literally, legally and state-of-the-art. Because the category is nothing but standardised legal behaviour, for which there is control and hell, at first, when there are indications and then when evidence is made. The material, which we have become aware of, contains such indications, in the clearest sense of the term, because during the pre-examination procedure carried out by our committee and the examination of witnesses, facts which may be found on behalf of the former Minister for Justice and Home Affairs in different cases than those we have already investigated. Ladies and gentlemen, what should we do and what exactly are we talking about in this Chamber? I'll say one thing. Just one. Our rapporteur has said that in more detail, he has mentioned everything in detail. He comes from a prosecutor and testifies that the controlled Minister actually urged him to set up unfounded persecutions and charges for reasons of feasibility against people for whom there was no reason. Another prosecutor comes in and testifies that the controlled Minister, who, through his lawyer, allegedly complains on matters of confidentiality of the proceedings, was present in an interrogation procedure without having the right and did not even leave, even when this had been indicated to him. Indeed, he testified for blackmail against him and for his targeting. There's been so much in Maximus. There appears to be trades between a citizen, a minister and between them and the Minister of Justice for the cessation of criminal prosecutions or the non-criminal persecution, with the payment of alleged expenditure and, as our rapporteur mentioned, by the complainant citizen and the relevant agreement to uphold the agreed acts, which concludes malicious acts. Anyone who reads this agreement agrees with malicious acts, and only with what has been signed. Ladies and gentlemen, do we understand exactly what we're talking about? If what the witnesses heard, what they said in our committee and submitted to the highest prosecutors, is true and if they prove to be so, then the Greek state, ladies and gentlemen, has "the wolf to keep the sheep". And with such indications, I would say, of unusual strength, in a common criminal case, it would indeed be unthinkable for this House of the Hellenic Republic to do the wrong eyes and not to see the obvious. Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not check these facts, such complaints, what are we going to check? And that's the point of the matter. So, yes, enlarging the indictment, in that sense I have told you, is absolutely essential, it is almost self-evident. I would also say to the Civic Opposition, at least for its part, that it should not in any way be involved in trying to avoid investigating what we are asking for. Because that no matter how much you don't understand, it hurts you first and foremost, because you are the Civic Anti-Civilization, in the institutions of the Hellenic Republic. In this case for all of us there is only one way out, and that is what the institutions point out. There's evidence. There must be accusations. From there on, we live in a country where no one has anything to fear from his natural judge, unless, of course, he does have something to fear, which I am the one who bears for any politician, because I believe in the integrity of the political world. And from these procedures, as they evolve, only for certain and great gains will it be the citizen's culture and confidence in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u81	Thank you, too. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Greek Communist Party, Dimitris Koutsoubas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin today with the honor of Pontian Hellenism, on the occasion of the hundredth anniversary of the genocide of the Greeks of the Pontian Hellenism. We will continue to stand next to the organized Pontian space for the international recognition of the genocide of the Greek Pontians. Over the years the JRC has supported every fair claim of the organised mouse movement, as well as all the people's claims against the choices of the respective government and the European Union. We are standing on the side of the thousands of expatriates who, after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, settled in our country and continue after so many years to face serious rehabilitation problems. We believe that the cultural and spiritual activity of the Pontians of all generations away from the various reactionary nationalist rhetoric hates must be demonstrated and supported by the Greek state. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have another episode of the well-known "NOVARTIS and Papagelopoulos", which has been played for two years. And from what the New Democracy's current proposal to extend the indictment shows, you are also ambitious to put it forward for the third year. It is a series offered for meaningless bipartisan controversy, especially at a time when your strategic shocks are revealed. A serial, however, that, for two years now, under the responsibility of both the New Democracy and SYRIZA, but also the other parties, has offered nothing to reveal the real truth. In October 2019, in the debate here in plenary on the setting up of a preliminary review committee for the former Deputy Minister of Justice, we stressed that our party will take part in the committee, in order to contribute as far as we can to the effective investigation of the case and of the events that have taken place in this case "NOVARTIS", despite the negative experience we have from setting up such committees. Through our representatives in the committee, both Nikos Karathanasopoulos's regular member, as well as Maria Konnakas's alternate, we did everything we could to highlight the essential aspects of this "NOVARTIS" scandal, as well as the deeper causes of these scandals, which are not other than the commercialisation of health and medicine, which were consistently served by all governments. At the same time, as a party, we have made it clear that we will not legitimise with our participation in the committee's procedures leading to a hood, cover-up and disorientation. Now, after a seven-month period of operation of this committee, continuous extensions to the deadlines for completion of its work, what results do we have? We have an endless process, with both unsolved fires and controversy, leading to the substance of the scandal investigation that the committee set up for the preliminary examination, as well as the possible involvement in this process of government actors in the previous governments. The attitude of the New Democracy and the attitude of KINAL and the stance of SYRIZA led there, with the tactics that followed in the committee. What should we want to do first? Remember the committee's repeated meetings, in order to discuss the proposals put forward on either side to exclude members of the committee on several pretexts? They were proposals submitted by all three parties that we have mentioned and which clearly highlighted the contradictions and impasses of the Law on the liability of Ministers that turns a political body, such as the parliamentary committee, into a judicial body. What else can we remember? Remember that critical documents concerning the investigation of the NOVARTIS scandal have not yet been given to the committee and are being retained under the pretext that they are confidential? Everyone can understand what kind of investigation can be done by concealing these documents. Should we remember the attitude of the other parties in the question of examining so-called ‘protected’ witnesses? From the outset we stressed our firm position, position of principle, that all witnesses and so-called "protectors" would have to testify in a natural presence, without hood and falsification of characteristics and voice, fully revealing their information so that they can check and examine what they present. The New Democracy and the KINAL, while at first they appeared to want to remove the hood, in practice they did nothing about it, while SYRIZA once again appeared to be a great supporter of the hood, in total contrast to what he said when he was in opposition, when he considered it extremely dangerous and incompatible with basic democratic rights, as is apparent from the speech of his parliamentary representative, Mr Kouvelis. All this highlights the responsibilities of the other parties that are not confined to the work of the committee, but have to do with much more general and much more serious issues. Firstly, it is about the stubborn refusal of all of you finally to abolish the law on the responsibility of ministers, so that the House can stop playing the role of judge and prosecutor, and this is done in terms of subjection to the respective parliamentary majority, so that the search for the truth depends not on the facts and the facts, but on the parliamentary relation. Secondly, they highlight the hypocrisy of all of you in relation to the so-called independence of justice, because you have all denied even the minimum proposed by the JRC, that is to say, that the definition of the lead of the courts by the respective government should cease. Thirdly and more importantly, the work of the committees so far has shown your allergy to the debate and research into the deep causes of the scandals, especially in the field of medicine. And these causes are that the drug is a profitable commodity, property of strong business groups that compete with each other for greater profits. The reason for your allergy is obvious. All governments, both of the New Democracy and PASOK, have recently served with great consistency the policy of trade in health and medicine, charging whatever cuts were made to public spending on the backs of insured persons and patients. The results of this policy are being experienced with great intensity today in conditions of pandemic which our country, in order to obtain even the most elementary health material, such as masks and antiseptics, has been found at the mercy of international competition, trade wars, businessmen and speculators in the field of health and medicine, because you had not ensured that there was a single supreme state drug body. The results of this policy are being experienced today that the private health sector, the sacred cow of your free market, has shown not only its parasitic but also its numerously harmful character. It was obvious after all that we could not accept this process leading to degeneration. That is why, after this development, our party representatives left the committee's work further, just as we had done in the previous committee set up in SYRIZA, and then we refused to examine witnesses. At the same time, we have stated our readiness to return if this data changes. And while in these very circumstances the work of the committee is heading towards the end, the New Democracy, with its proposal, is calling for the extension of the offences allegedly committed by the former Deputy Minister of Justice. We'll talk about this one more time. We have no illusion that over time, on all the governments and on the government of SYRIZA, there were interventions in justice, particularly in cases involving business groups and between them, of course, competition or having a particular political interest for various reasons each time. This would certainly not be an exception to SYRIZA's ministers either. A few days ago, after all, a government official now in New Democracy made an unacceptable intervention in relation to the prosecution's plea in progress in a court of law that has shocked the Greeks. It is obvious that the New Democracy, in its move to broaden the indictment, seeks to exacerbate a two-party confrontation that works disorientately for the people, and ultimately makes it very good for both, to hide their strategic symphony, especially now in the face of developments relating to the new economic capitalist crisis and the consequences it brings for life, health, work, the survival of workers and the people. In view of the difficult situation and the even more difficult winter that comes, you are making sure to shape the third version of the scandal, which we have even anticipated, not because we have some divination skills but because we know how you operate. But it is also obvious that the new proposal is coming to definitively bury the 'NOVARTIS' scandal under the responsibility of all sides, both the New Democracy and the KINAL and SYRIZA. We simply cannot legitimise this process, and that is why we will not take part in the vote that is taking place for the eyes of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u83	We also thank the President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece. The speech by Mrs Theodora (Greaters) from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's procedure in Parliament's plenary gives us the opportunity to speak clearly, clearly, about the game that the New Democracy plays with its institutions in trying to cover up the 'NOVARTIS' scandal and inevitably gives us the opportunity to understand or, more rightly, to realize how the New Democracy wants to rule. Does she want to rule because the people's mandate was given to her or does she want to rule as ownership by the institutionalised powers? Does the New Democracy want to investigate the 'NOVARTIS' scandal by independent justice? Is he going to? Can she shield justice so she can go to the end of her investigations? Because every time we face a huge scandal like the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, every time we face corruption, the complexity of political and business interests, the New Democracy makes the black, white. In the case of the NOVARTIS scandal, the reversal of the roles attempted exceeds each limit. The controlled are persecuted, the main guardian involved is made by the New Democracy of a credible witness. Accidentally after the government's statement, a regulation is passed which allows the unleashing of frozen accounts, as if someone rewarded the former head of "NOVARTIS HELLAS" who said there is no "NOVARTIS" scandal in Greece. Of course, he didn't say a word about Papaggelopoulos and a maker. Except that the development of the pre-examination process, by which the New Democracy tried to legitimize the so-called Papagelopoulos construction, gave it another reversal, but it did not wait for it. Not only has there been no evidence of the intervention of Papaggiopoulou, but it has been revealed that the so-called Papaggiopoulou maker is in fact a Nea Democrat, orchestrated by specific circles, who attempt to take the rematch, but also to show who runs the test on the right side. Ladies and gentlemen, from what we all know here in this Chamber, justice has not ceased to investigate the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. And, of course, this continues to be done self-sufficiently by the responsible corruption prosecutor, despite some attempts to remove the case from her. Here we have a paradox imposed on the institutional culture of the place by the efforts of the New Democracy to cover up the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. Nowhere else in the world is such a serious case-law attempting to break down to a point that no one can remember why justice has taken it, why the controlled politicians of the New Democracy and the already accused Members of the Movement change their decision for themselves before the investigations of the responsible officials of justice have been completed and when justice has met in its investigations on the 'NOVARTIS' scandal by names of political persons of its own place, the New Democracy has done what? He acted as a protector of political friends and allies and not as a protector of institutions. It reminds us of these armaments scandals, when some in here said there was no evidence against Tsohatzopoulos - Papantoniou, while there was evidence, demanding that they be apologised. So it seems that, whatever years pass, this cover-up culture remains strong in the political system that led to bankruptcy, which aims to influence justice and, when this does not succeed, to comply with it. The protected witnesses New Democracy - according to its own law as protectors - called them "gulls," doing everything to intimidate them. He did the same with the prosecutors in the case. He questioned, with unprecedented tension, the role and face of the prosecutor corruption. There must never have been such an orchestrated attack on the functions and functions of justice. We were told by the inspirations of the so-called "Papiggopoulos" that "NOVARTIS" is an international scandal of duration, unfair practices, influence and manipulation of drug markets in Greece as well, with the importance of this for the European market, but up to there. Doctors have criminal responsibilities, managers have criminal responsibilities, politicians don't have one. But for that reason, whether politicians have or do not have criminal responsibilities, neither the New Democracy nor the Change Movement nor SYRIZA nor any party force nor anyone else will come forward. Justice will rule. In the role of justice, then, the New Democracy comes and decides that the fact that we have come to talk about politicians in the 'NOVARTIS' scandal is the result of a construction of the previous government, SYRIZA, through a 'Raspotin', so that SYRIZA can smash his political opponents and thus win the elections. And the pre-examination committee is set up for the alleged interventions of the former Deputy Minister. In all its greatness, however, the hypocrisy of the New Democracy is revealed, the manipulation of the institutions it is attempting and ultimately what we all suspect of how the New Democracy wants to rule: whatever it is, as it does. It is enough for everyone to know that every authority belongs to it and only to anyone who disputes this right, only to anyone who dares to speak the justice in its work as required by its institutional duties, only to anyone who tries to throw the waterproof that protects the conflict, only to anyone who dares to speak or who dares to ensure that those who know can speak fearlessly. He'll find himself loaded with half the country's Criminal Code, and that's what the rest of them have in mind. If future historians are looking for what is wrong nowadays, one way will be to study how the current government perceives the institutions. The setting-up and functioning of the pre-review committee will be from the SOS. Complete simplification of the institutional functioning of the pre-examination committee and of all concepts of justice, abolition of guarantees, anti-procedures, pressures and terrorisation regime, intimidation of judges and witnesses, exclusion of witnesses, use of classified private practices. The New Democracy ruled out Janakopoulos, Polakis from members of the committee, and at the same time people were accepted with obvious and immediate involvement in the case. The New Democracy made the faces of the protected witnesses clean and tied up, but found a wall in the Areo Ice that said the obvious, that is, the protected witnesses will be examined as they wish. And now comes the expansion of the indictment, a monument of anti-institutional culture and political opportunism. A group of Members of Parliament of the New Democracy is coming forward and signifies the proposal to extend the indictment against Dimitris Papaggiopoulou, quoting out of the committee's minutes for the Minoan lawsuit which is confidential and which is to wonder how they came to their possession. And this is where the New Democracy is revealed. The government majority knows that it does not have evidence of intervention by the former Deputy Minister, but does everything, cutting and sewing the indictment, in order to set up a special court stage. That's why it stewed. Let's see where he cut off. The government majority decided to extend the indictment, using classified statements on the pre-examination committee, before the most basic witness, the former Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, Mrs. Xeni Demetriou, who the government majority decided to call last and not the first ones, as would have been institutionally correct. If the pre-examination committee started by Mrs Demetriou, it is certain that the pre-examination mission would end there. It's enough for someone to read her six statements to understand the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the last attempt on one side of the New Democracy to be politically rescued by the collapse of the indictment set up by its most extreme circles. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President. At the same time, it is the effort of the other side of the New Democracy to send out a message about what happens to those standing upright. Whether on one side or on the other, New Democracy is at a dead end, because from the beginning of its habits, the game did not come out. In her attempt to get out of this deadlock, she unfortunately entered unpaid waters, turning judiciary officers against judges. And here is the question: who are against whom? Who considered New Democracy to be reliable and unreliable in her attempt to bring the charge today to its measures? Did he consider trustworthy of these prosecutors who bury serious corruption cases, prolong envelopes in closets, lose envelopes in flooding, refuse to receive information from foreign authorities, avoid witnessing, devouring those who insist on doing their job unreliable? So let's see what the credibility balance has achieved, as the New Democracy sees. The New Democracy is based - it says - on the testimony of the former Prosecutor against Corruption, Ms. Ryku, the former Prosecutor of Corruption that controlled other doctors, but concealed that her husband received transfers from "NOVARTIS" to their public account allegedly for studies that are still being investigated if they have been carried out. When the contracts for the alleged studies were requested, she said her house was flooded and destroyed. In this case, it is pending at the expense of criminal investigation. It is based on the testimony of the former prosecutor of corruption, which since 2015 has been aware of an anonymous complaint about Maniadakis, but until its replacement in April 2017 has not sent the file for a relationship with the case of NoVARTIS, the former prosecutor of corruption who has not called for the submission of eyewitnesses of the attempted suicide of the ‘NOVARTIS’ strain in ‘HILTON’, the former prosecutor of corruption who in its replacement letter of March 2017 wrote: ‘I will not sacrifice myself to the altar of the interests of corrupt state officials and the great interests in the field of medicine’ and called the ‘NOVARTIS’ the Corruption Coronal in our country. The New Democracy is relying - it says - on the testimony of the former supervising officer, Mrs. Angelis, the judiciary who wonders when he was telling the truth: When by a prosecutor's order dismantled all the complaints of Samaras and defended the corruption prosecutor by putting the Samaras law in the file, or when he remembered to rescind the Samara suit together with the Venizelos suit at the end of June before the elections and when the Samaras notice preceded the press? New Democracy says it is based on the testimony of the financial prosecutor Panagiotis Athanasiou, the judiciary who, according to what the former Prosecutor of the Ice Arrow revealed, hid in his drawer for three years of procedurals - fire for offshore and former ministers of the New Democracy, the judiciary who lied to his service that he went to The Hague for a meeting for the "Panama Papers", but never went. But that's not all weird. I shall now conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Doesn't it surprise you the similarity of the Prosecutors? Riku and Angelis remembered years later that pressures and interventions were received by Dimitris Papagelopoulos. Deep reaction or memory problem? And finally, Mrs Tulupaki who does not like New Democracy is being targeted, because she is simply doing what she has to do as a prosecutor against corruption in investigating a major scandal. And while in the NOVARTIS scandal, the volume of evidence to prove overpriced is huge, in the supposedly construction of Papagelopoulos there are only rumors, words and self-esteeming prophecies, intended for vulgar titles in the media that support you. And finally this is the New Democracy's building against Papaggiopoulou, which expresses this sketchy, unscheduled and incomplete text called the 'Proposal to extend the indictment'. But the witnesses say, but the authors of the proposal to extend the indictment to a random quote of criminal offences without any causal link between the facts and their legal subjection of offences. Only for the coronary, you didn't blame Papaggelopoulos! Ladies and gentlemen, - and I am closing with this - the New Democracy has claimed and claimed for itself a role above institutions, as if it were the only prosecutor in this society with everyone else in the role of the defendant, from squares to courtrooms and from student amphitheatres to parliamentary seats. But I blame it against you, one that is expanded into society by more and more citizens who understand that the New Democracy does not just want to rule but does not want to rule uncontrolled and does not just want to rule without control, but rather to rule without controversy, without controversy. And of all the fears of the new right that they might overthrow the hegemony's politics, the "NOVARTIS" scandal is what scares her most, because in the "NOVARTIS" scandal it is revealed that for the New Democracy power is spoil when it is not an inherited right. But this country is neither a spoil nor a hereditary right. It is a memory and it comes from the future where the truth shines and not the spoil, a future in which the inherited right of the New Democracy does not have a place for lies and covert, but light, truth and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u85	Thank you, too. Mrs Zoe Rapti has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing this proposal submitted by the thirty Members of the majority on 9 March to extend the number of cases investigated by the Special Parliamentary Committee which may - and I repeat - be the former Deputy Minister of Justice, Dimitrios Papagelopoulos, in the performance of his duties. At this point I would like to remind the House, because we also have non-legislative members among us, that only Parliament has the power to prosecute, always taking into account the presumption of innocence, against those who have been members of the government and for criminal offences which have been committed in the course of their duties, no one else. In other words, we have an exclusive competence but also an obligation to carry out a preliminary examination and nothing else. Therefore, in reply to Mr Velopoulos, we would not be able to send the judicial investigation, the preliminary investigation, because we would be illegal, Mr Velopoulos. However, we all know that it is not the MPs who do so, but the special court designated by the Constitution, a constitution which speaks of the court, consisting of seven virtues and six counsellors, and therefore the only ones who are responsible for the guilt or innocence of the defendant are them. But what are we talking about here today? We are talking about whether the committee will be called upon to decide whether to conduct a preliminary examination, namely an investigation into any further offences referred to in this proposal. As we have said, this is one of the Constitution and from the law of the House and, of course, as the Scientific Council has said, we are fully competent, the Council which met - and I will put it down for the Minutes - on 20 February 2020. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Zoe Raptis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] In particular, according to the detailed information provided in the proposal, in addition to the already investigated case, there is evidence that Mr Papaggelopoulos had an influence on public prosecutors and journalists, possibly acting as a structured group, in order to commit criminal offences. What does it show up and present with concrete figures from the proposal put forward by our thirty Members? It turns out that he was channelling publications against natural persons who wanted to target. It then used those publications by sending them to public prosecutors, in order to carry out a preliminary examination to the detriment of individuals. It did not hesitate, in fact, to distribute press reports against even former members of the prosecutors who did not agree to discipline in order to carry out illegal acts and then exercise disciplinary proceedings against them in order to bend their resistance. This practice had been denounced, as we all know, by the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Award Mr. Aggelis and the Chief Prosecutor, Ms. Riku, but it can also be seen that it has been extended to other cases. These cases are here to judge whether they should be investigated. The indications of a possible termination and other offences arise in particular from those that came to light from the complaints made by Ms. Tsatani, according to which there are sufficient evidence that Mr. Papaggiopoulou wished to remove the file of the case of Vegeopoulos from itself and showed particular interest, in addition to his duties, as follows: He sought to participate, which is forbidden by the secrecy of the interrogation, in meetings of prosecutors, where action would be taken on the case, and it appears that he also called it on 22 November 2015 and indicated that he did not have such a right or power, a specific procedural handling, i.e. the return of the case to Helen Ryku. She is even alleged to have told her that she has an abscess that will break into her weight and that she should comply with the suggestion to make Christmas with her family. Then journalist Constantine Vaxevanis posted an article against her, referring to her face as "the dark face of interlocutory" and "the prosecutor who grabbed them to favour businessmen". Furthermore, she also filed a complaint against her and started a relevant disciplinary investigation, but was filed on 22-12-2015, according to the document which I present under number 5777/2015 of the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, contrary to what Mr Papagelopoulos previously claimed. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Zoe Raptis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] Also, the next day the Members of the then parliamentary majority tabled a question to the House and the next one was published by Law No.4356/2015, who provided specific competence to exercise the relevant disciplinary authority to the President of the Ice Bay, who finally exercised it. Subsequently, following the alleged telephone announcement by the former Deputy Minister of Justice, after the savage targeting that she accepted because of her refusal to discipline in these illegal threats, the police protection provided to her by the state was removed. Thus, unfortunately, on October 13, 2016, a terrorist attack took place against her by putting an explosive mechanism into her home. From what they saw the light of publicity, she reported that it was a very powerful explosive mechanism, that for a five-hour earlier she would have been hit by members of her family and specifically three friends, that they would all be dead, that she had just entered her house at the time, but also that there was a few more things, including her monitoring twenty-four hours a day, that her personal life had been altered, that she had not been out of the house, that she felt that all the telephone calls were recorded, as well as to a special person who had been aware of these issues, and that over the phones her monitoring was wide and that in fact in a statement she had asked to be able to identify these people who were following her. Finally, she reported that there were serious omissions on the part of the Ministry of Public Order and no sufficient reason to remove the storage which had been continuously reserved since 2011. All this, according to the same prosecutor, was because they were aiming at a single fact, that Mr. Papaggiopoulou was obsessed with the case of Vgenopoulos and had to be persecuted at all costs. Should we not therefore, ladies and gentlemen, consider all the things that have come to the light of publicity? Should we not, then, do so with a specific decision of our own and decide here in this House whether to prosecute other offences? I think the answer is obvious. Furthermore, the statement by the Deputy Prosecutor Panagiotis Athanasios also shows - because she also saw the light of publicity - that there are indications that Mr. Papaggiopoulou exerted pressure on this particular prosecutor when carrying out debts of at least five cases. These cases were dealt with and were the Lagard list case, the felony persecution case against bank managers, the asset freeze case of media owners and in particular Mr Alfouzouzou, the case of Mr Papachristos of the journalist, as well as the Vegeopoulos case. His statements specifically said that Mr Papagelopoulos was calling, pressingly asked to be informed about the development of these cases, he was constantly complaining that there was a delay in the monitoring of all these masters and, above all, Mr Aafouzouzou, asking him to press the auditors to end as soon as possible and, of course, when he replied that if he had any evidence to present it, he had not provided anything. Finally, in Mr. Vegeopoulos' case he threatened to go to the newspapers and complained that the audits of the Ministry of Finance had been carried out in this case by Vegeopoulos, which he himself said was totally irresponsible. Of the above-mentioned facts, there are indications - which we have an obligation, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to examine - that Mr Papaggioulou with targeted publications by specific journalists to whom he sent them, put pressure on public prosecutors to move against natural persons targeted. With the help of these public prosecutors and journalists, it was even if some responded, such as Mr Angelis or Mrs Riku, in exactly the same way, that through the dissemination of publications, he was preparing the ground for the disciplinary extermination and bending of their opinions and, of course, trying to manipulate justice. Therefore, perhaps - and this is what we will consider - it was in addition to the offences for which the special pre-investigation committee has already set up and a further set of offences that have been identified by the above facts. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And these are the things that need to be investigated: inviting and offering to carry out a felony, moral automobile to abuse of power, moral automobile to breach of duty and breach of duty, as well as the offences of the bribery of a political official, the bribery of an official and extortion on the basis of the facts, but they are mentioned in the proposal for enlargement. So, if the House decides to do so, it will be working in the context of the tasks that the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House require, and, of course, it will investigate these issues before it submits its overall conclusion to Parliament. I am convinced that in this Chamber we all at least admit that no person and no criminal offence in our country is above the law. We are all responsible - all of us - for the actions and especially those who have exercised government power. Again, I will stress - and I will conclude by saying this - that our actions are based on deposits and concrete elements of distinguished prosecutors and public officials and not on hooded witnesses or of course contain vague or vague allegations. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it has been clearly demonstrated that the need to investigate the crucial issue of Mr Papagelopoulos' further responsibility and of these additional criminal offences, always bearing in mind the presumption of innocence. No one prejudges the outcome of this investigation. But once again, the rule of law must function and function, as the constitutional and legal procedures and responsibilities require, if they arise, We therefore call on you to vote in favour of the proposal under discussion, so that further investigation is initiated immediately, because we are all judged at all times for our actions and our omissions, and the final judge of all of us is the Greek people. We, then, will do everything in order to continue honoring his trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Mrs Rapt. Ma'am, she'll be the next speaker, three in a row. Mrs. Evangelia Lykoulis from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is one day with a very strong negative burden on Parliament. It is a severely negative political burden as the debate concerns phenomena of political and judicial corruption. The damage done to society when we talk about judicial corruption is much greater than when we talk about political corruption, because corrupt justice means that all the institutional manifestations of the entire state are corrupted. Today, then, daily life retreats. We are not dealing with the coronary and with the demands of professionals and all classes of the country, but they are coming to the fore and the institutions, the worthy system, the operation, the system's employees are paralysing. The recent political history is at the forefront of revoking memories of the last five years, but to be inextricably linked to the old one, the memories of the days of 1989, of unholy partnerships, of steadfast persecution, of ruthless political extortion, manipulation and then of the institution of justice, in order to strangle politically and to eradicate the great democratic parade of PASOK, which had already been through an eight-year shocking reform in the country, as many of us remember, but others who are now not with us. So it is recorded today in collective consciousness as one of the darkest pages of yet another complex political account, the attempt to dismantle and reap the primary guardian of the civil society, justice. He comes to the fore today with the political scene "Work and days of the SYRIZA - ANEL government and their appointed political officials", in order to permanently lose the innocence of the political youth of those who wanted, truth, then believe that the "first time left" uncompromising and unhypocritical comes to strike the strife, to oppose foreign interests, to bore the duogeies, not to spare anyone and nothing, to regain their prestige, to have real independence everywhere and to justice. I use the former Prime Minister's words from his election conferences in Thessaloniki and Athens. I would remind you that on June 7, 2011, here, a few meters below, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Vice-President, in the middle of the Constitution Square along with the atrocious civilians, first-class members of today's Officership and ministers of the previous government protested with passion for the true independence of justice, the permanent inclination! But all these years we have witnessed an incredible institutional curse, a curse that even makes Montesquier go back into his grave, since the institutional downfall has taken away everything that the political philosopher has in the past formulated in his memorial work "The spirit of laws" for the great distinction of powers in all the constitutions of the countries. Is there a man responsible for that curse we're talking about today? There's no fault. In my opinion, there are those who are responsible, first of all, for the outgoing government, which, at the very moment of the neofestist, detracted from what he considered to be the summer palace of its own so-called 'October Revolution', by hitting exactly what he thought was defending, the parliamentary democracy itself. SYRIZA clearly thought it was wrong that he could bring the seal of the young man and sell it, the seal of the unambiguous and sell it, the seal of the incorruptible and sell it as well - like candy, I remind you - the moral advantage. And let it turn out many times over the last six years that it is allergic to any sense of institutional armourage of democracy, permanently overthrowing every mechanism of control of the executive - and now as a Dedicatory Opposition, the opposite is saying - with the continuing dismantling of the institutional tools for defending democracy, with a clear example of the independent authorities. Who's gonna forget the vatrello that's happened to this? He also thought it was wrong that the complexity was a matter for others, for the DNA of others, and that it was not about SYRIZA, the great one, as he said, and sincerely a progressive approach to the situation. But this has not served with great success since we are here today and we have this debate. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, within the anti-immemorial shell that had a little of everything, a little of angered, a little of squares, a little of an unholy mixing of populist right-wing, right-wing, left-wing and left-wing groups of different starting points and directions, an entire outrageous circuit was built for a long time. And, of course, this circuit was exactly the same: it was built on a case of international character, it had features that were of interest to both the state and the politicians and to the people, the reality, the very real scandal of the medicine, which was, of course, hidden and resurrected in a systematic way, as I will prove. But it seems both SYRIZA and others, because you remember what happened in the study of monumental sculpture. It was easy for there to be no result at all. What was the conclusion of that committee of inquiry, ladies and gentlemen? Nothing at all! Propaganda only brochures, propagandas only headlines and absolutely nothing else. Unfortunately, however, in this context, it seemed that there were the two unscrupulous co-operators who worked well. SYRIZA, on the other hand, was interested in the caramanlic right not to highlight the great successes of the past. And of course, for his part, SYRIZA, before you voiced three times, silenced the duouls, the drummers and its full leftist leftists disappeared for "First time..." now ruling "...left" have chosen for Deputy Minister of Justice Dimitris Papagelopoulos, former commander of the secret services of the Government Karamanlis, a well-known man's political positions linked to an important part of the New Democracy, clearly approached ideologically in its area. Will Mr. Tsipras and his close colleagues tell us how they chose Mr. Papagelopoulos? On what criteria? Did he suddenly ideologically join the Left? Has it been distinguished worldwide as an activist, why do you like them too? How exactly did you choose Mr. Papagelopoulos? It is quite clear, it is clear, that I would say better, ladies and gentlemen, the reasons for the choice of this particular person. His position in the field of justice and the links he had, but also his strengthening with the institutional role of a minister was giving wings. It was the passport with which the SYRIZA government could easily get through to the next stage and drunken the political process that wanted to get drunk. Was the former Prime Minister really aware of the operation of the whole system? It seems to me very strange, ladies and gentlemen, to ask such questions, when many of the lusheries that have today been heard and agreed by Mr Papagelopoulos, have been in the Maximos Mansion before Mr Papapas. And the Prime Minister of the country knew nothing, just as no one else knew anything. And it was a private case of Mr Mionis. And he was a private person, as Mr Papaggiopoulou says and he assures me 'I will condemn them' when he himself participated in this and concludes that hundreds of thousands of euros were moved between the debate, which had to deal with issues. And what issues, ladies and gentlemen? Issues that in the twenty-five years I've been prosecuting the field of law have never seen my eyes or heard my ears. Is it ever possible to close up with felony deals? And the most characteristic is the Mioneis case, the one that really breaks the bank and is unprecedented for political times. In this case he swore and promised and assumed responsibility, allegedly Mr. Papagelopoulos, while he still did not know which judges would be detained to settle these cases. So, we're talking about what? We're talking about an overall system of valorisation, about an emancipation of a system, which, although I don't know what it is, I can promise you that I will manage. I, at least on this point, am really speechless and sincerely disgraceful, as I have been in the pre-review committee, when I heard this and said that, of course, they must be investigated below. Another aspect of this issue, ladies and gentlemen, should be why we are really discussing today and at what level we are deciding. It's just questions. I will not go into the logic of how much this matter is for us. But how can we close our eyes and ears to what some prosecutors, these five prosecutors, came and testified? They're prostitutes, they're conspiracy, they're bad, they're veils or they're deliberately coming, they're vessels, they're embarrassed, they're unspeakable, and everything else I've noted that Mr. Papagelopoulos said? Even if that's the case, shouldn't it be investigated? What do we have to do? Can we close our eyes and your ears and say we never heard them? Myoneis is a private person, I had never met him in my life, I didn't know what his face was like, I never heard him talk. And? What does that mean? When one denounces that there is such a transaction in Maximus, don't we have to investigate that? So what should Parliament do? To say, no, I won't go any further? Look at that. Some must be equitable, with a fair look and with a clear front to history and to parliamentaryism. They should respond with a straight look at how, indeed, they stand up against history and institutions. This is a real bomb on the foundations of our institutional and worthy system. We cannot, ladies and gentlemen, remain silent, neither can we go through this as if we had not seen it. For the NOVARTIS scandal, which is a real event, will anyone speak to us? I have heard many on the part of Officerial Response say that the New Democracy does not show that the Change Movement is not what it talks about. Isn't that what we're talking about? Don't we talk about what we say in depth and height and go everywhere and investigate everything? What didn't we do about it? Didn't we say yes, of course, to set up the pre-review committee? So why not vote today on the case with the widening of the indictment, so that we can see in depth what is happening? That's the only way we'll all be clean. That's the only way we'll look into the eyes. Market behaviors and smart guys of the press "we keep the light and others do clean jobs", they have long been overdue. You know, it's a political maniac that's outdated by things itself, a market behaviour that's none of our business. Today I have seen, ladies and gentlemen, and I want to tell you what I fought in me - in the Step of the House, a former prosecutor and former minister. I believe that society, like myself twenty-five years in the field of law, has been waiting for these people for a sample of writing and a model of behavior. Politics is education. We are the same to talk to the world and, of course, the world hears from us, imitates behaviors and further demands or deceives politicians and politicians. I won't talk about how shocked I was when I heard Mr. Papaggiopoulou the previous February to talk to "MEGA" and say "they're the crazy ones out there, and we're going to regain them," talking about the work of the pre-request committee. It was a shocking statement. I wondered who the crazy ones were - us? - but above all who 'we'll pick them up again'. So who will Mr. Papagelopoulos pick up the nuts again? We have chosen a different path, ladies and gentlemen. We didn't bore the voices, we didn't show up in the hallways, we didn't become the honorers of the irrationality or the counsel of the wrongdoer. We weren't guest stars on show. We have not made any split statements. We didn't whisper two words in the elevator with market behavior and outdated cheeks. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With patience and commitment to revealing the truth we examined the witnesses, we asked for evidence, we crossed faces, qualities, facts and documents. We have constantly asked to send all the inquiries and the contents of the entire case of "NOVARTIS", the entire case of the prosecution of corruption, and it has not caused us the favor in time to send it to us and to be fully aware of where we are and where we are. The evidence of the case is now a well-known, unspeakable legal and political treaty for those who know what has been said. One cannot close one's eyes and ears to what the prosecutors have said. It's reported that Mr. Papprospoulou had an influence on public prosecutors, journalists, to commit criminal offences. We can't close our ears to complaints that the prosecutors were attacked until terrorist attacks, because he took their security.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u89	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u90	Yes, Mr. President. We close our eyes to prosecutors' complaints because they remove file records on this point, we close our eyes and we cannot, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, hear the sound of the words of a prosecutor who said she was afraid that she really would not have Christmas with her family. We must stand up to the circumstances. We must forget our opinion on Mr Papaggelopoulos personally, who he is, his character, his idiosyncrasy, what we think he is capable of or incapable of doing, where we think he can reach as a man, where he arrived as a prosecutor, as a minister and so on. We should accept the presumption of innocence with great respect to the defendant's face, as our legal system requires. But, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard a debate - and I shall conclude, Mr President - about the defendant's right and the right to a fair trial. Don't confuse things. We are talking here about something quite different. We are talking about things that have arisen, events, documents and illegal acts, which may have been finished. There are, therefore, clear indications and also suspicions that this is opening and we have no reason to investigate it. Or do we have one? Do we have any reason, ladies and gentlemen - I wonder - not to accept the extension of this matter, with further investigation of all its appearances in order for everyone to be quiet? Ladies and gentlemen, today the House is called upon to think, Parliament's plenary must consider its responsibility for democracy and justice. We don't have much left, you know. We will defend our country, our sovereign rights, but we will defend the ideological structure of democracy itself. Amazing Stephanos Matthias, a stunning minister, said: "The infiltration of a party as much as a government in justice does not just mean some discreet suggestions at the top and some doubts of the unstable choices, which in any case," he said, "they are condemned. It means interventions by dark parties, paralysis of legality, erosion of the guaranteeing and ruling function of justice, that is, general erosion of the institutions and values of life itself." This is what we are called to defend, because as I said before, politics is a imitation of a great and perfect act in society itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u91	Thank you very much, but the damage you have done to me, because Mr Markopoulos is now following and where to stop him in ten minutes and twenty seconds!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u92	I said twenty seconds less than Paul!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u93	I would ask Mr. Polakis to be calm and discreet while Mr. Markopoulos is speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u94	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u95	I know, I know. You're the last sorrow you've ever seen!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u96	I was in the last triumph because I was tall!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u97	Mr Dimitrios Markopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. You know, I used to like some Greek movies with Kurkulos. You will remember in the 1970s the famous film "The trial of judges", where a courageous judge had put it in all the systems, was all against him to bring justice. That's what I felt today, seeing Mr. Papagelopoulos, a man who had all the systems to his face, what Tsatani, what Athanasios, what Ryku. Everybody against him! Of course, the only one who was right, the one Mr. Papagelopoulos! Nikos Kourkoulos, alone against everyone! However, I have some gaps and I want to clarify them here why everything needs to come to light. Very nicely Mr. Papagelopoulos told us about the first date, that he also felt a discomfort, and he was told by Nikos Papapas "Netanyahu". He's pinching, because he's left, you know the Left that's antisystemic. He says to him, "Netanyahu" Poppa, is complicating Papaggiopoulou, the need for politeness, what to do now? We need to talk about the Sabby Mioney case of the businessman. He says, "Netanyahu," he retreats there. So, Mr. Pappas is more likely than he's telling us, he's gonna have to make things clear to us. I shall not say that Mr Pappas gives Mr Pappas, that Mr Pappas is the author of all this contact at the Maximos Concert Hall with a businessman, with Mr Filipakis the publisher, but in some way, Mr Pappas thinks that after what Mr Papagelopoulos said today, he should be reassigned. We're waiting for him with interest. But he did not tell us - and I was saddened by Mr Papagelopoulos - about the second date. There was a second date. I have a letter from Mr. Ioannis Filippiki, who sent on 5 March 2020 to the President of the Special Parliamentary Committee, Mr. Buga, where he says: "Note 20, 15 May 2018, 13.00" south, meeting at the office of the then Minister for Digital Policy Mr. Nikos Papapas - second meeting - presence of Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Papagelopoulos". He was probably persuaded by Mr. Pappa that the intervention "Netanyahu" was very hard and despite the fact that he wanted to get up, Mr. Papagelopoulos was sad to hear from Mr. Papa, made the heart of the stone, went to the second meeting and we see that there is a second meeting. Mr Mionis, Mr Filipakis, a third person, has been quoted, and he has even acted as a guarantor of a compromise on respect for both sides of the compromise on the grounds of interest, Mr Papa, Israeli officials, according to a statement by Mr Papapas. That's not what he told us, he must have forgotten. I think that in a future phase Mr Papagelopoulos may remember that. We've heard other things. I would remind you that the former prosecutor of the Ice Bay, Mr.Xeni Demetriou, said days ago that he would personally have needed the same months to carry out an in-depth assessment of the case "NOVARTIS", when he was asked - quite accidentally by me - how within just a few hours, Mr. Papagelopoulos assessed this case as the largest of the recommendation of a Greek state scandal, a case involving almost all political opponents of SYRIZA and even the faces. Let's see which faces they were involved in. One to one was the hardest critics of SYRIZA at the time both from the centre-left and from the centre-right. Do you know what Mrs. Demetrius did? Let me let you know that the world is also learning some things that it couldn't see because it wasn't all in open process. Do you know what Mrs. Demetrius said? He raised the shoulders, reduced the shoulders and said, "What am I supposed to say?" What's she gonna say? In fact, he said: "I would never become a politician, things like this." That was Mrs. Demetrius' reaction. I am not going to stand on Mrs Chatani's gossip because we have seen a lot about the quality of what we call a judicial system, of those who judge us. These are for future use. We'll see if I or Mr. Loverdos write any books to see these at some point. Because we know each other, and judges judge the judges. Because we've seen a lot of things about those who judge us. I won't stand on his gossip who was nominated for New Democracy, etc. That would be nice to leave it a little further. However, I would like to ask: A man of justice, a prominent figure in this area, Mr Papagelopoulos - was not an accident - he went to a new role, a Deputy Minister responsible for corruption, is it moral that this man should go to closed meetings in the Maximos Mansion and speak of private affairs with Road Maps - we also learned the Road Maps - road maps? What do they describe? I am referring to documents that have been presented. That the EPPO suggests that the investigation will not produce any evidence, that the preliminary investigation will be closed for all the persons involved. We hear that there will be the relevant suggestions, that is to say, 'Children, look at them, we agree two private individuals and, as far as justice is concerned, one, two, three, four, five things'. A man from the field of justice participates in it? And what was Mr. Papagelopoulos after all? Minister Filippaki, Darka, Papadakou, or a Minister responsible for corruption? It's a question of all this. Like also, the question is whether Mr. Tsipras knew this meeting at the Maximos Mansion. What did he know? Didn't he know her? He was a prime minister, and he's the prime minister's seat. Mr. Pappas - I remember reports of the time - was a very competent politician. Did he let him know? What happened? Was it his absence? Is he upset when Mr. Tsipras found out that there was such a meeting? Was it in favour of the transnational agreements, as we are told? I don't know, maybe we can hear later - I don't know the procedure - if Mr. Tsipras comes. I think it would be very important to answer this without shadows. All in the light!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u99	And Mr. Pappas could come.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u100	And Mr. Pappas, yes. Mr Pappas could also be given the floor. So he finally told him that "Netanyahu" and he froze in front of that size, Mr. Papagelopoulos? In other words, it seems that Mr Pappas was a dealer, a 'dilator'. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very difficult for eight months to last, persistent, storming, exhaustive investigation procedure, dozens of witnesses, a huge amount of deposits, thousands of pages of material in the few minutes left. How can a psychology fit in such a short time? Because it's psychological. We are a group that lifted a load on its shoulders and Mr. Papagelopoulos raises his own load and political burden, at the same time, that of the preliminary examination. How can one be able to describe the shock, or can I be honest with the shocks? We have been shocked by what we have been hearing within eight months of the role of former Deputy Minister of Justice Dimitris Papaggiopoulou in the performance of his duties. I'll say something Mr. Polakis likes. I hope you will forgive me for addressing the saints of communism, but I will tell you. Lenin, Mr. Polakis, said the truth was a revolutionary act. In Lenin's name, the Left is a confession. But it was our majority that finally made the revolution. He did a revolution to shed light. This revolution we made, you didn't do it. We brought NOVARTIS into the House, not them. We were the ones who showed the courage and sought to throw plenty of light on everything. When did you bring the Guardian? When did you bring Destabashidis? When did you bring the prosecutors - you were hiding, why did you know - judicial officers to speak? And what did we hear? We've heard a lot. You know what we heard? Daily was the process. We have heard words such as 'para-state', 'dark face', 'pask scene'. These were on the agenda. I remember in the beginning - and this is interesting - that had been heard in order to stress us: 'But we have not heard the word Papagelopoulos. The name Papaggiopoulou has not been heard.’ And yet, we have heard it again and again and again and I call on SYRIZA colleagues, Mr Lappa, Mr Ragosi, Mr Xanthopoulou, Mrs Aegeris, Mr Gilola and others who respect them and I appreciate them, and they have heard and heard it again. I will not recall what Georgia Tsatani said. It was said before by the good colleagues that we had to comply - we heard things - to make the woman Christmas. You know all this, though, we didn't say it. It wasn't a battle for the laundry in the neighborhood. It wasn't that. The former D.A. denounced them, a serious case. Papagolopoulos yelled. Papagelopoulos spoke of Eleni Raikou, Yannis Angelis, Xenni Demetriou. She even revealed to us that the famous Rasputin had been heard in her office. He got us a little messed up with Mr. Janakopoulos. I think Mr. Janakopoulos, when he has his intervention, will make it clear to us, because other things Mr. Janakopoulos said in his statement, but Mrs. Demetrius said. Mr. Janakopoulos, we will have the pleasure of listening to you today. Mr Panagiotis Athanasiou also told us. Superintendents of justice. Everybody. You know what they got up and yelled? Papagolopoulos! For those who had the wonder if the name was here. We're sick of hearing it. Let's go down there. We heard the name Papagelopoulos from businessman Sabby Mionis. I filed a report before. So I ask you directly to join us in interrogating rooms. Mr Ragosi, I see you, we're in the same district. Is the complaint to investigate an attempt to blackmail the Sabby Mionei and Stavros Papastavrou? Should we be silent about the glossy sums that have been heard in the process? We heard that money was being demanded. Let us also remind the old good movie 'Show me the money'. Let's see the money. Do you want, Mr Ragosi, do you want, Mr. Xanthopoulou, to hear the truths or not? Let's find out, son. Let's see the money. Is it a pedigree, moral, to discuss funds within the Maximus Mansion? We heard about money, money, and Mr. Papagelopoulos talking about money. Is the role of a Minister responsible for corruption talking about money from businessmen in any direction? Is that his role? What's that? This Left have been elected by election in 2015? Daraveria and debates for the benefit of businessmen or perhaps - to respect the presumption of Mr Papagelopoulos' innocence - in order to end a private case? What are you, anyway? Ministers of each businessman? You left? Where would you bring the new one? We're the old one, to overthrow us. You're the new one. You know we've never heard of this before. They're interesting. There's been a lot of noise. We heard of legal assistance from the Ministry of Justice of Cyprus, which acquitted Mr Mionis and Mr Papastavrou. Why was she buried? Could there be some kind of political hostage to Mr. Papastavrous because he was a partner of the former Prime Minister, Antonis Samaras? Maybe to find Mr. Mioney in a place to dill? I'm asking questions. Should we be doing that we did not see the private contracts that, apart from money, clearly describe a series of judicial steps? Privately agreed on a case - Mr. Papaggelopoulos left someone to look at it and we will see it - which three months ago had gone to the power, as we learn, of friendly public prosecutors to Mr. Papaggelopoulos. We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u101	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u102	You'll give me some time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u103	A little time? You've already taken four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u104	Nikos Pappas is mentioned and must be placed after today's day. Mr. Papagelopoulos said things about Mr. Papa. The flow of things has changed since today. He asked for a settlement of the case. He said attributes there are lands that cause reflection. We're waiting for him, we want him to enlighten us. Is it possible to ignore the complaints that Mr Mionis's open affairs and his colleagues have been discussed at the initiative of Mr Papaggiopoulou and with the guarantor Mr Papa, the Minister within the Grand Maximos? Will complaints leave us indifferent that between Minoni, Darka, Philippaki have taken initiatives and commitments that do not depend on relevant documents from the private parties, but only on independent justice? Should we ignore all this? I will not expand any further. I have to respect time as the whole process is not allowed to do so and we have to respect it. As majority representatives in measure and wisdom, we respected the process. We are now respecting the presumption of innocence of the former Deputy Minister, Dimitris Papagelopoulos. We have not rushed to extend the indictment. Today's process is not unfounded or hasty. We didn't cut out the models of the tsaro-tree and the arrow-tree. Throw ten ministers in the blender, two prime ministeres. What did the friend, Paul Paulakis, say? Is he here? Yeah, he's here. "Let's put, my child, and one or two politicians in jail, because we have to win elections." You've said it, Mr. Polakis. You'll have after the Step. I'll be here and I'll hear you with great interest, explain it to us. Today's proposal is the result of what we have heard. It's a result of evidence. We are here, therefore, after months of torture and not a hasty crisis. Eight months we investigated, we didn't go and we decided because it was how it suited us. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with this: do you know what? Do you know what our big difference is? We do not play with the honor and dignity of people. To reach the point where the indictment is requested, we have examined, read exhaustively, debated, seen documents. We moved in the light and not in the background. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not know what the fog is. We're making it all in the light. That's what Richus said. Let's remind you of him, because maybe you've forgotten him for four and a half years in power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u105	Mr Ioannis Ragussis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin, ladies and gentlemen, I should like not to omit something that, because of this, it is easy to omit, to comment on this picture. What does the poet want to tell us now? It is a picture that actually wants to tell us that we have a Prime Minister and a government that does not deal with these criminal cases involving the investigation of scandals and possible responsibilities of former Ministers. Who can tell us that now? Mr. Mitsotakis and his Government, which among the other ones has committed a leading problem throughout this period, is that he was taking out the Governing Delegate during the pre-review committee and made official government statements from Mr. Mitsotakis on the course of the pre-review committee and, otherwise, classified statements that the pre-review was received from the witnesses who came. There's no doubt about it. I would like to make a few points by taking advantage of the opportunity now to speak after Mr Papagelopoulos. So, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that a small child understands that your proposal today is a formal confession of your demise, because if the existence of a construction in the NOVARTIS case had been established, there would have been evidence of the existence of one of the directors of Rasputin. So you would have no need for either an indictment to be extended or for further witness examinations or delays. In order not to play these well-known low-level communication games, in my opinion - please cut this question. Search as much as you want and as much as you want. For Papagelopoulos, for his mother and for his father and for all the people you think should be investigated at the end of your life. To be perfectly honest, an intimacy has indeed developed between the members of the pre-review committee after so many months. Honestly, if you were another political force, colleagues of the New Democracy, you should be ashamed of the speech made by Papagelopoulos from this step. I'm not talking alone about each one. I am referring to the new Republic as a political force. Don't go, Mr. Plori, because I'm going to address you. Of course, all those who have made a public career in the name of defending the principles of rule of law, university professors, supposedly intellectuals, journalists, who have not been apologising for all this time, have been drinking the unspeakable water for all these terrible and terrible crimes that have been committed in this case. They mentioned earlier colleagues that Mr Papagelopoulos has avoided - in my opinion he did well at this stage - not to remain on the issues of formal nullity, which obviously arises from the use of confidential material. I'm not staying there, I'm going to the immorality of this case. You know, ladies and gentlemen, where the unethical, what you've done? Not with the use of classified pre-review practices, but with the fragmented use of evidence that emerged in the pre-review. One example to give you. Mr. Ploris said in his initial speech here, not to leave anything on the legality and formality of such procedures, that the former Prosecutor of the Ice Arcia Mr. Xeni Dimitrios testified to the pre-examination committee that yes, Angelis had told her that "Raspoutin" is Papagelopoulos. Mr. Floris said that here, I'm not saying it. I ask, however, directly and I challenge Mr Ploris, before the plenary of the Greek Parliament and the Greek people: did Mrs Xeni Demetriou put the perfect one there, Mr Ploris? You who revealed this point in her statement have a moral and political obligation, not to say a legal obligation, to say whether there was a perfect or not, but a party and what else Mrs Demetriou added. I give you the floor and now tell you what Mrs Demetriou said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u107	Now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u108	Now, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u109	Whatever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u110	You will read exactly the entire sentence of the former prosecutor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u111	If he wants to, he'll take the floor later. Keep going, Mr. Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u112	You, Mr. Plouris, said that he just said in the pre-examination "yes, the Angel came and told me that Rasputin is Papagelopoulos". What else did Demetrius say, Mr. Plearis? Tell me now, I'm waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u113	What I said...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u114	I'm waiting. Give him the floor, Mr President, there is no point in this debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u115	Please, no...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u116	To be forced now to tell the whole truth. Mr President, please, if Mr Plearis wishes to do so, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u117	Mr. Flouris, you have the floor for a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u118	What I said, Mr. Ragosi...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u119	What Xeni Demetriou said in committee. After you broke the secrecy, you'll take the full responsibility, say it whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u120	Listen to me, whatever you want, read. I said that when he resigned...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u121	You said what Demetrius said. Say what Demetrius said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u122	Will you leave me or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u123	Say what Demetrius said. You should tell the whole thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u124	When Mr. Angelis resigned - where you were all here saying "Never told Papagelopoulos" - in his resignation he said to Mrs. Dimitrios: "Behind the publication of “Dimoratia” is Papagelopoulos". That's what he said. And he says, "What do you say, son? What are you talking about?" And he says, "Who is Rasputin?"
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u125	The next one? 'What are you talking about?'. And the other one? Don't hide it anymore! Go on, say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u126	But I've told you all! Read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u127	No, I don't read it! I'm not breaking classified! You're gonna bust it all the way!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u129	Mr. Pleari, you'll say it by the end of the day. What else did he say? Please. What else did Demetrius ask the Angel?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u130	What else? What did he ask him?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u131	Keep suggesting. Why don't you read it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u132	What you're saying doesn't have.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u133	What I'm saying is that you know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u134	What's wrong with him? Tell it if it is! I say to you, did he say the name "Pangepoulou"?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u135	Mr. Flouris, do you have anything else to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u136	You said he said he said the name "Papignopoulos" and you hid what Mrs. Demetrius asked him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u137	What did Demetrius ask him?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u138	What did Mrs. Demetrius ask him? If you have what? Say it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u139	Mr Ragossi, you asked for something, he said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u140	"Get me some clues" you mean? Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u141	That's it. Say it the whole thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u142	Good, "Get me some clues," he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u143	Please. No dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u144	You have proof, he asked him as you say, now! And the Angel says, "I don't."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u145	Bring that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u146	What does the Angel do next? He gets back all the complaint he made.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u147	Mr. Flouris, do you have anything to fill in?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u148	That's their credibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u149	Mr President, he's falsifying. Mr. Ragossi! He said "Get proof". What did the Angel do, Mr. Comrade? On February 21, he testified...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u150	You're welcome. Mr. Pleari, you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u151	No, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u152	No, Mr. Marcopoulou, you're not doing a job. I'm here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u153	Mr President, ten seconds. You interrupted me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u154	I'll give you a minute later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u155	Not a minute. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u156	Please, please, you're done with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u157	He filed his report of February 21, which says what Rasputin did and this report until June 12 was in the drawer. And when did it open? Following the publication of the "First Subject".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u158	You guys are now...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u159	Here's the proof, Mr. Ragosi. You're not laughing now, gentlemen of SYRIZA! Good for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u160	Mr. Florie, you're done. Mr. Ragossi, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u161	Mr. Flouris, now you're thinking that you can save all that you've done today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u162	You don't save it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u163	Apologise!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u164	I think what was done a moment ago proved, in the most characteristic way, the size of your political immorality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u165	Is there a deal?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u166	Mr. Marcopoulou, whatever you had to say, you said it in eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u167	Because, not only have you used classified material, but you have twisted it, because you have used it in fragments. You were forced a few minutes ago to read the entire report.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u168	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u169	Mr. Floris, please. Mr Ragosi, you are addressing the Bureau, the dialogue is over. You asked me for a favor, I did it to you. Now you've misunderstood it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u170	Indeed, the dialogue is over. Because Mr Papagelopoulos has said too much about the five witnesses whom you refer to in the proposal, I will not have to say any more. I would like to stress that there are a number of points much more important than the one he mentioned about some of the witnesses, but let us leave this at the moment. I shall mention, however, because you are continuing with great intensity and great emphasis on this debate - the settlement date and agreement that has been reached, as Mr Papagelopoulos said, following the intervention of the Prime Minister of Israel in Mr Papapas' office, between the well-known composition of Mionis and Papagelopoulos. I now hear colleagues say 'Is it the Minister's duty to intervene? Is it the Minister's duty to intervene, to make arrangements?' Mr President, you are not telling me, ladies and gentlemen, let me say that it is not the Minister's job. Is this the Prime Minister's job? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Antonis Samaras' job to do exactly the same things, a few years ago, and we wish that he had done it and said it publicly after Netanyahu's intervention and not after the intervention of other extra-institutional centers...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u171	There's a contract that describes...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u172	Mr. Marcopoulou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u173	If it is not a minister's job, then it is not a Prime Minister's job.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u174	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u175	Mr. Marcopoulou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u176	Since the way you acted in the pre-examination is so reliable, we told you that since you were such kibabarians and since you are nothing to fear, bring Samaras to testify for Monois, who said he did with him and after his own intervention a settlement with Philippaki, three years ago!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u177	Mr. Ragosi...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u178	Mr. Marcopoulou, you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u179	...another planet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u180	Mr. Marcopoulou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u181	There is something more important, in my opinion. I have also heard today's debate, I have now lived with my colleagues - I include you - but there is, therefore, something more important in Greece and Papaggiopoulou and in NOVARTIS. What is at stake is neither the innocence of Papagelopoulos - which is given to us - nor whether there is a scandal or not at NoVARTIS, which is also for us and has been documented within the committee. What is at stake, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, is the rule of law in Greece. In other words, at this point I was thinking - frankly, I am telling you and confessing to you - what we say and listen to us many times - has said so many times, and the Chief of Police Vice-Population has said so - that you are going to create a hormone-type state in Greece. As you do, the Hungarians will soon be saying exactly the same. In other words, they will say that you are going to their own Prime Minister Orban's, in Hungary, and they will denounce you to masturbate the Hungarian state with what you are doing. Honestly, there is no institutional and legal misery that you have not committed in this case 'NOVARTIS'. You have heard them from my colleagues, the protectors, the prosecutors, and they have been reported by a number of witnesses, and you have heard them here as well. The pressures that have been put on the prosecutors are unprecedented. You are talking about "NOVARTIS", while the scandal has been documented. It is only for forty medicines that have been found - and it has been established - that they have cost the Greek people 65 million euros. You're talking about building, and now you want to broaden the indictment when, speaking of building, you know what else you're doing, beyond the rest? You contribute to the 'NOVARTIS' effort and you have collective and individual responsibility for what I'm about to tell you now. One day to invoke your words to refuse to pay compensation to the Greek State for the damage it has caused, because the theory of construction is the best paper for "NOVARTIS", so that it does not pay compensation to the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u182	Mr. Marcopoulou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u183	This paper, you have offered it to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u184	Mr. Marcopoulou, please, you're constantly interrupting. I'm revoking you to class. Don't make me move. One, two, three, that's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u185	Of course, it is undeniably certain that, with what you are doing today and in the last few days, you have exceeded all the limits of institutional and legal sport. What do I mean, in particular? Amid a pandemic, you called the pre-review committee. When you pandemiced, you tabled this proposal to extend the indictment, when you knew that the plenary today would be convened with 80% of excluded Members and yet proceeded. Papagelopoulos came here and spoke, not in Greek rule of law, but in bananas. He spoke of his innocence in a Parliament, which is excluded from having the opportunity to listen to 80% of the Members who will vote on it tomorrow. And you did this in your knowledge that it could not be done otherwise because of the pandemic. And yet you did. Why? Because the Prime Minister, who otherwise is absent today, wanted to end with Papagelopoulos, because he is preparing for the possibility of an election. In other words, in the face of the political plans of Mr Mitsotakis, the rule of law is a garbage. The favoured Greek state and the Greek Parliament, the innocence and dignity of man are a garbage in front of his political plans. You're turning your head down now, because you know as much as we do that doesn't oblige you to do all this right now. Why don't you do it in the fall? Why? Because there is someone who leads all of you, who wants to prepare for the possibility of early elections, who - I say - has offered you a lot. He's offered it all to you. You've got everything on your side. You have the majority, you have the media, you have the money, you have the jury, you have the power. But you don't have the truth on your side. One thing you miss. Mr Mitsotakis will never be able to give it to you for this particular case. He'll never give you the truth on your side.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u186	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u187	Do you know what Chinese, ladies and gentlemen say? They have a proverb: "When you have the truth on your side, you have the one. If you have a majority, you get a zero and one becomes ten." If you have the media with you, you get another zero and ten is a hundred. And if you have both the jury and power and money, you get more zeros and you get one million. But when you lose one, all the other things that stay in your hands will be zero. That's what you're gonna stay with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u188	Mr Efstathos Konstantinides from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u189	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, my second offspring and I of the riot generation, I join in my grief for the victims of the Pontian Genocide and my belief that maintaining live Pontian Utopia will lead to national Utopia, borrowing this wonderful composition from the coin entitled 'The Spirit of Utopia and the Generation of Racism' of the doctorate of behavioral sciences Mr. Theodoros Constantinidis, but also on the assumption that the recognition of a crime is the best guarantee that this will not be repeated, which is an application to this debate as well. So, today, we are considering the proposal to extend the controlled acts to the detriment of the former Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Dimitris Papagelopoulos. In this spectacular case, some people are trying from the outset to hand over bias and prejudice to those who seek to investigate it, whether because they are concerned about their personal involvement or because they believe that it will have a great political cost for their party. That is why they systematically attempted to parade and demilitarise the process in order to undermine the search for truth. After all, these kinds of cases carry a political burden. However, this does not, by definition, deny the validity and legitimacy of an audit entrusted by the Constitution to the Parliamentary Assembly. So, ladies and gentlemen, today we are only called upon to assess the evidence with a judicial conscience. First of all, however, we must remember what led us to today's process. We need to remember the impoverishment suffered by some people, who were over-camely slandered and slandered. We must remember those voices that were spoken of constructed charges. We must remember their promise that they will not leave unpunished those who have participated in trying to manipulate justice. We must remember the complaints of the officials who spoke of external interventions in their work. We must remember the unacceptable leaks, the targeting and the scroll statements on the course of the case, which violated any concept of state-law. We must remember the convenience with which the majority at that time sent its political opponents to the relevant preliminary committee with so perforated data that they did not even have to apologise, to provide explanations. Inexplicable files have been filed against them. All this must be remembered, ladies and gentlemen, not to repeat it, but to forget it, because otherwise we will relive it. We do not have the right to allow that to happen. It certainly has a huge value that top political faces have been bleached in the ridge of Scandalology, which has dominated in previous years. It is important not only for each of them and for their natural and political family, but also for this credibility, integrity and dignity of political life itself. It is, however, of even greater value to guarantee the guarantees of a favoured state and those who are still under control and who have denounced the execution of serious crimes against them. These are accusations which, if they are proved, will not constitute an insult to their individual legal goods, but, in fact, to question fundamental democratic institutions and values. For all these reasons, we have the sacred obligation to shed plenty of light on all aspects of this case. But what does SYRIZA answer all this? That the Prosecutor's reports on the interventions in her work and the threats are false, which if he had not complied with the suggestions made by Mr. Papaggiopoulou, would he have suffered? That another prosecutor, Mr. Athanasios, lied to him about putting pressure on him in cases he was handling and asking him to involve the journalist, Mr. Papachristou? That the statements made by the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Bay are unfounded, Mr. Announcement of extensive unfair interference with the prosecution of corruption? That the charges of the Chief Prosecutor, Mr. Ryku, are unsubstantiated, that she was pressing for a tax in order to refer political persons and threaten her with consequences if she hadn't changed her position? That all previous officials were accidentally smashed through press releases and that they were all subjected to identical disciplinary charges? It seems that all these supreme judges have been misled and decided to turn against a minister and their former colleague, solely against it. That's what SYRIZA says, it's a sketch. However, let us also see the other contested statement, which Mr Mioney made, because we have previously attempted an unscrupulous, I think, set off. Why are we addressing Mr. Papagelopoulos? Just, why did he attempt an intervention in a private dispute? Is that what Mr. Mionis was interested in? Compensation? Didn't he care about the most serious charges at his expense, the control carried out at the time by the administration and the courts? Did the person present here, Mr. Papapas or Mr. Papaggiopoulou, the Deputy Minister of Justice, have any reason to say in his own right? That's good for the first meeting. But in the second, as Mr. Markopoulos rightly pointed out, when there were now registered in an illegal agreement? Is there even a colleague here who applauds Mr Papagelopoulos' presence at those meetings? It is, therefore, unthinkable - not to use the same term -'scrupulous' - to try to set off unparalleled things and possibly a misinterpretation with completely illegal content. But who, ladies and gentlemen, has arranged these dates? Has the New Democracy finally arranged them, which is now being charged with sketching? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the recent constitutional review, all parties have defended the assimilation of criminal treatment between politicians and citizens. Really, what kind of message are we going to give them tomorrow's vote? That these shocking evidence doesn't need any further investigation? That complaints about extra-institutional functions and interventions in justice should not be dealt with? That if the person controlled wasn't a political person, was there even a prosecutor with this material throwing a case like this into the bench of the unusable? The Greek Solution previously accused us of getting the former prime minister out of the castle. But that is just proof that this is not a political persecution. That is precisely what proves that there is no political empathy. However, at this point too, the paradoxical objections which the controlled party and the SYRIZA officials give us must also be answered. They say that the expansion of control took place, supposedly, because the original charge didn't get us. No falseer! The committee was required by law and welcomed the new complaints against the controlled politician in Parliament. What else are they telling us? They say that by transmitting the material, we practically violated the principle of secrecy. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. When the material was transmitted through the preliminary examination by the competent prosecutors to the House, did not any of the elements of the proceedings be taken into account by the House? What amazing objections, what procedural people are these? The House was required to pass on this material. The thirty Members who have proposed elements of the case have legally received the proposal, which they have tabled. What else are you telling us? What else are you giving us? That if this House decides to extend the category, it is not possible for the committee to extend to other cases. It's completely wrong, too. They are new similar and related acts, which refer to the same person and therefore the rules of the economic process and the unity of the evidence, not only do they not prohibit, but they require the joint investigation of these cases. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, by addressing SYRIZA's good fellow Members, I will tell them that they should not be caught in the falsification of 'construction or scandal'. The existence of one does not prove the existence of another and vice versa. There may be both. Only responsible for judging this is independent Greek justice. Therefore, because there is sufficient evidence that Mr Papagelopoulos has been carrying out the acts at his expense, I propose that the audit should be extended, in accordance with what has been said in the proposal under discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u190	Thank you, too. I will give Mrs Maria Konnakas the floor from the Communist Party of Greece, and then we will take a short break, so that the Chamber can be ventilated and relaxed. Mrs Konnakka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr President. One of the paradoxes that one encounters in the course of this pre-review committee, which is probably not so unusual in the course of similar pre-reviews and committees of inquiry, is that the more the statement of in-depth investigation is being increased, in order to fall light and so forth, the more the actual examination of the person being investigated is assumed, scandal. Of course, even more is being pushed into the dark the causes that gave birth and the existing "NOVARTIS" scandal, as well as its inverse version today. The higher the tons of confrontation, the greater the scandal is lost: the drug trade, the huge competition between multinationals, who are literally slaughtered by who will prevail on the market. In their course they do not hesitate, of course, to buy or in any other way to eliminate any obstacle that is on their way. This is not a new phenomenon, nor is no 'NOVARTIS' only the know-how, the patent. What reveals this situation by the enormous competition manifested in the present conditions of the pandemic? Is the collapsing of which pharmaceutical industry will the coronary vaccine first, with bazaars and arrangements for its disposal? Or do the tragedies of almost changing sanitary routes from one country to another have cause for this barbarism, created by the capitalist system, where human needs, health, life, are sold and purchased on the basis of the maximum possible capitalist profit? These competitions are, from time to time, bringing the various scandals to the surface in the attempt of capitalists to take out their competitors from the middle, as was the case in the case of NoVARTIS. Of course, this is not because of the fastest and most effective system of justice in other countries, as the SYRIZA rapporteur has heard earlier. Was the pain in the United States to fight corruption or to increase drug spending in our country, or has it been provoked in this revelation by the competition of German pharmaceutical companies? The answer is obvious. So, behind the lot of dust and dog fight between New Democracy, KINAL and SYRIZA, what is being attempted is to reflect that as long as the system, which sees health and the drug commodity, remains at the heart of it as the maximum profit, the science will be subjected to the interests of pharmaceuticals, capitalists as a whole and will be continuously removed from the coverage of popular needs. Of course, what you are all trying to put deeper into darkness is that these interests have served and still serve the policies that have applied to health both New Democracy and PASOK. You celebrate the various sides as an innocence element of your innocence and a conflict allegedly with the interests of the pharmaceutical industry the reduction of public expenditure on the medicine. Really, who are you kidding? Public expenditure was reduced as a result of the obligation to adjust the country's budget during the memorandum period, but the same cost was charged to the patient's back, who continued to pay for the medicine, but this time directly from their pocket, because they increased their participation rate. What, then, is the loss to the pharmaceutical industry? Or did any other kind of legislative intervention from one government overturn balances in the scale? So this ground, which has many open paths to develop and to develop corruption, you maintain it, but you also cover it together. Even this controversy, which has evolved over the whole period on the issues of government interventions in justice and on the part of the prosecutors and from that of the accused, demonstrates in the clearest way that such interventions exist and exist with all governments. The image of supreme judiciaries, their laundry in the forefront, and with interfering categories, is the most revealing one side and, of course, confirm that the proclamations of all the urban parties, who have ruled for allegedly respect for the independence of justice, remain hollow. The refusal of all of you to accept the JRC's proposal to the Constitutional Review, in order to stop the appointment of the leadership of justice by the respective government, proves that you are all looking at these ties, which objectively set the ground for such dependencies. Of course, you maintain the same responsibility for your refusal to overthrow the regime which allows such inexorable controversy to take place for so many years, while maintaining the 'Law on Responsibility of Ministers', which does not allow any genuine investigation of any responsibilities - and we do not question it - may exist. But the way the committees are maintained and evolving is constantly sending them into the dark. Furthermore, the whole development of the pre-review committee, both in its previous and today's version, confirms another risk, which the JRC has pointed out since the first moment, which we regard as an inalienable condition that it should be eliminated, so that the scandal case can even be investigated in substance. Because, of course, the actual investigation of the case cannot be carried out with anonymous testimonies, which cannot be cross-checked either with regard to their credibility, but also with regard to the motives of their statements, which ultimately serve both parties. Of course, the same unprotected leaves the integrity of the witnesses who testify when all interested parties know or seriously suspect who they are behind the masks. However, these names are not known to the general public so that they can be protected on better terms. That is why we have also seen during the committee the contradiction: the New Democracy and the Movement of Change, which voted to legislate on the status of guardian witnesses, to squeeze over the consequences of the institution and SYRIZA, who rightly denounced the institution during its vote on the risks it reserves for personality and other basic rights, now to defend itself with passion. In the JRC, therefore, we believe that in these circumstances the continuation of the pre-review committee, and indeed its indictment and further assumptions, will not only help the effective investigation of interventions in justice, much more than the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, but will help, once again, to remain a scandal in the dark and away from what is truly of interest to the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u192	Thank you, too. We're going to interrupt for a while, as we've been used to lately, so that the Hall can aerate a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u193	Repeated adjournment. The Chief of Staff Response and Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group Mr Alexis Tsipras is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the second time in Parliament's history, we are experiencing this image of empty governmental influence. The first time was seven months ago, during the debate and the vote in plenary on the establishment of a pre-request committee for Mr Papagelopoulos. Today is the second time, in an unprecedented process, also for the time periods of the Parliamentary Republic, because many pre-request committees have been set up, but as far as I know - and I think I am not mistaken - it is the first time that there is an indictment being made. Of course, seven months ago Mr Mitsotakis and his Government decided to abstain from the process, they sent a message of hypocrisy, but also of cowardice and of disarmament. They did not have the courage to stand up to the accuseing man, dragging into a preconceived decision-making process as to what appears to be the reaction of the arguments. At the same time, however, it was also a decision of deep hypocrisy. What exactly is Mr Mitsotakis and his Government acting out of the process then and today? That he doesn't decide? Does he not move the strings for the group of Parliament's majority in the pre-request committee? Is the entire process being carried out by Mr Mitsotakis and the government's strategic staff? Is that what he wants to tell us? Or does he want to tell us that the man who really moves the strings is not the same, but is he Mr. Samaras and the far right wing of his party? What does Mr. Mitsotakis want to tell us in his absence seven months ago and today? Seven months ago, from this Stepma, I mentioned the most cowardly re-channelling in history, because it is clear that Mr Mitsotakis' problem is not Papagelopoulos. It is obviously SYRIZA's attitude and then, now, the front against corruption, but of course, I too do. While that is and was the problem, Mr Mitsotakis chose to target the former Deputy Minister of Justice. I had said that this attitude is a attitude that makes him inferior to the circumstances. Today, however, I think we can understand why he was absent at that time and now. It is obvious that he is caught between the tradition that his party has to resort to the political re-changing of special courts on the one hand and the tradition that his family has on the other hand to Mr Samaras. Of course I understand that it is difficult for him to come here and say political subordination to the plans of the party's extreme component. But here, you will allow me to make the assessment and say that it will not be present in the future for it to be placed either when you bring Mr Papagelopoulos' preconceived decision to refer to a special court. And she won't be here in the future, precisely because everything that has been revealed makes this case her own fiasco. I do not know whether it is the biggest scandal of the establishment of the Greek state in the end, but the largest fiasco of a pre-review committee is confirmed by a recommendation from the Greek state. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But come on, because, in the preconceived majority decision to proceed with this gross diversion, it seems that some minor difficulties have arisen. What are these difficulties, which are ‘important’ of course? No category arises and no reference is made to the core of the diversion operation, i.e. the conversion of the scandal into - supposedly - a construction. Because, "when reality and truth don't help you, so much worse for reality and truth," you decided not to stick to these little details. After you've found a defendant, you won't get stuck in the lack of indictment. You will build it, you will expand it into a - I repeat - an unprecedented enlargement process and you will build it. And that's exactly what you're doing today. It is only by itself that this process of submitting here a proposal to extend the indictment seven months later that self-proof marks the bankruptcy of your rhetoric about allegedly manufacturing in the case of 'NOVARTIS'. I warned you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority of Members of Parliament, that whatever you do you cannot write the "NOVARTIS" scandal from the mind, from the conscience of the great majority of the Greek people. You cannot write it down, first of all because it is real, because it is ardent from every political wing in an unsuspecting time, especially because it is visible and the scandal itself and its consequences in Greek society. The political leaders of the scandal are also known, and for some of them the investigation against them is still being conducted by criminal justice, despite the judiciary of judges. That is why, while I listened to the positions of those who came up in this Step on the part of the parliamentary majority, I noticed a guilty silence, their silence in this scandal. No references to the case. The pre-examination committee, which you have set up, despite your efforts to exclude two members of the minority - an unprecedented move, also in parliamentary times - despite your methods of intimidating the protected witnesses unsuccessfully, despite the call for political reunification, which you have addressed to anyone willing to assist in your planning - with or without consideration, will appear in the next period - despite all you have tried, therefore, in the pre-examination and in the committee of inquiry, all that has so far been said is the failure of your basic account that NOVARTIS was not a scandal, but was a construction. Because it has rightly been said by a great philosopher that the repetition of history is either a farce or a tragedy I want to tell you this: this is where you risk being both a farce and a tragedy. Tragedy will be your procedural and political manipulations and prank their pranky results. It will be a farce, however, that society is watching it and even watching it because life has brought them. At a time when we are faced with major problems and with very great new challenges, ladies and gentlemen, I am conscious today of the details of the witnesses and especially of the judicial officers who have been examined. In addition, Mr Papagelopoulos has established one in each of his testimonies. I am also not going to talk again - I have done so several times - I will do so, if necessary in the future - for the essence of this great 'NOVARTIS' scandal, which, today, in order to cover up, incriminate those who have made it. After all, as I said before, your guilty silence on this today on the substance of the scandal is enough and we do not need to say anything. But there is another guilty silence today, since the morning when I hear your positions. Throughout this process, you do not say a word about what the former Prosecutor of the Ice Argory Mrs. Demetriou, the way, with her institutional authority and scientific adequacy, she threw light on everything that had happened during her term of office, on slander and on constructed distortions. The former Attorney-General proves that in this place there are judges who honor their duties and justice, far from political purposes. But many times these judges walk on a lonely road, with a unique compass of their values. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I am sure that the judges themselves in this country can judge what is happening these seven months, today and what will happen next time with this pre-inquiry story. But be sure that society is also watching and wondering about the openness and freeness of state officials. He wonders, he is disappointed, moves away from the necessary relationship of trust both to policy, but also to justice. This, however, is of little interest to you - perhaps it has never been of interest - and you are once again proving it the way in which you operate in the pre-inquiry case, for the allegedly construction. But who's the one who didn't expect it? We have not forgotten that in the territory of your resignation you have in the past sprouted executives who have been convicted of participating in outlawing circuits. Would you now respect a parliamentary committee? But you will allow me to say that it is not a matter of looking to find out what happened yesterday, but of seeing what is happening today. We have a lot to talk about if we look for last night. But I say we leave last night. The issue is what you are doing today, in these months that you are in the governance of the country and, in particular, in the last few months that our people, the country, have been facing an unprecedented adventure. So, at the time when you are allegedly representing the honourers of the independence of justice and the time when our people are in this adventure and struggling for life, health and future, in the pandemic, the gentlemen who are absent from the government headquarters have shown the face of their political and moral decline or the infamous voucher of the mockery of thousands of scientists in our country - among them the lawyers of justice - in order to give some EUR 80 million to training projects - or to the new institutionalised corruption regime, which they have built, with many exceptional derogations from the rules on transparency and control of direct awards, a regime that I fear will accompany us as early as autumn. As a result, many cases of hundreds of thousands of euros in direct assignments, without any control, without any accountability. We are talking about direct assignments, even millions of euros, such as the supply of sanitary material from the 6th health region, masks to protect against the coronary, instead of EUR 20 or one and with a total value of more than EUR 1.5 million directly allocated. We stopped you at the last minute. How many more, really, that we can't find them! There is one case, accompanied by complaints of triple price, in relation to other cases and, however, to the relationship between the contraaor and the contraaor. Is it, therefore, populism to say this, or is it misery to be committed by government officials and still in place? At the same time, the newly established National Transparency Authority, which should all control it, is under the beginning of a man, with its other administrative bodies inactive, for the sake of Mr Mitsotakis, its commander. And the auditors are decorative. They've been decommissioned, taking control of smoking and incomplete checks on the coronary. With all that's done, it looks like wheelchairs whistling as they go through new intercom scandals. And to the bank executives, who were accused of malicious acts of infidelity, not only of the wheelchair but of the bearer and the servant, you did - the gentlemen who are absent, of course, pleading - by lawing in the pandemic, in emergencies - which were in exceptional situations, and who were in law by means of acts of legislation - a service provision whereby, while all the other deadlines were normally suspended, the four-month period, which concerned their prosecution, was exceptionally left to run. Thus, with closed courts, these bank officials received the much-conscious and probably government-accorded immunity. So do you want to talk, ladies and gentlemen, of the parliamentary majority for justice yesterday and today and always? Yeah, talk about justice. Do you want to talk about interventions in justice yesterday and today? We need to talk right now. Who could have imagined in the government of SYRIZA, Minister of State with the Prime Minister, to intervene on a trial that shocks the Greek and takes a stand against the prosecutor's speech in warm heat while the trial is in progress? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Who dared to do that? And then, after he saw that his intervention had fallen into the void, that the judges were not affected, that there was a wave of indignation from public opinion, to declare that what he declared on his own account on the Internet, were personal views of a ordinary citizen, did not testify to them in the capacity of the State Secretary despite the Prime Minister, in his institutional capacity! As if the Minister were entitled - and indeed a minister with the Prime Minister - to tell us that he is commenting on the status of ordinary citizen rather than on his institutional status. You'd totally drive us crazy! Of course, she continues to enjoy the Prime Minister's confidence - that is not the matter, it is not whether she has committed a blow - which shows how respectful the Prime Minister's justice and procedures are. Allow me here - since I referred to what would happen if a SYRIZA Minister made such a post - to say that there was a central political plan for you throughout our administration to create the picture that SYRIZA is a political force of institutional illiteracy and institutional insufficiency, as you said, that he writes their own shoes, that he does not respect them. Obviously, we had given you no right to say that, but it was your defense against our declared intention to respond to the popular feeling, which was a popular feeling that required justice, which required justice to be allowed to breathe, to be undignified in order to render justice. You have then started, with the help of naturally known media, to charge us, from the first day, as supposedly anti-institutional political plans for all judicial developments, which would tend to clear up, to settle corruption cases. Any mission of evidence to justice has been baptized, any investigation of institutional misconduct. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, history will judge this - it was the government of SYRIZA that developed policies that liberated justice from much of its time-consuming problems. It was the government of SYRIZA - the 'institutional illiterate', as you said - that left behind new institutions in justice through the introduction of new fundamental legislation, in particular codes and flagship legislation for the protection of human rights. He took the lead in the creation of new institutions, such as the European Public Prosecutor. He contributed decisively to the staffing, after years, of the courts and prosecutors. Reinforced the National School of Judiciary. And finally, he completed important electronic justice works, the value of which appeared, especially the days of the pandemic. But most importantly, with the regular and rational management of public affairs, we left behind the idea of the responsibility and the moral integrity of the judicial officers. On the other hand, let the Greek people compare what the government has done, those who are absent from the process, these eight months, which are in power. So it was the government of Mr Mitsotakis who, myself, accused me of not respecting the institutions, because a former judiciary became a legal counsel in the Prime Minister's office and once elected, two former supreme judges became members of the government, not advisers. Vice-President of the Government one and the Deputy Minister of Justice the other. That's respect, and that's hypocrisy. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Now that we are talking about, the Government is complaining that it is behind an ongoing coup in the largest judiciary union, in the Union of Judges and prosecutors, since the government itself has the attitude of the Minister of Justice on its requests has caused the artificial carpeting of the current board of judges, with the aim, until the new judiciary, of the Union staying in forced discourse, because its voice is annoying. This is because it is the Union which has dared to denounce the reactionary policies which the absent government is currently bringing to labour relations and civil rights. It is the same Union, whose deeds on practical matters of organising and serving the courts, the government is consciously deceiving. Of course, you will have noticed that neither these complaints nor these deeds have received the least interest of the media, unlike - I would remind you - in the fact that the slightest glimpse over our days has found enormous interest and visibility from the media. It was the main theme in the news bulletins for days. But, they didn't go missing, they didn't go for free 20 million for advertising right and left, without accountability to the media! They got a place! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Your attitude, however, to the value of pluralism and to the principle of justice and the free will of judges, is a attitude which insults democracy itself and such practices, you do not find them easy in any European country. We can only compare such methods to similar ones in countries that have been targeted for the democratic deficit in Europe, such as Poland or Hungary by Mr Orban. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said this from this point of view: the crisis which has found us these days, these days of pandemic, is not just a danger to people and their health, it is not just work and the economy, social cohesion. Institutions are in danger too. I have repeatedly stressed the need not to allow our own democracy to enter quarantine. Our democracy is already, with this crisis, facing major threats and great risks. The possibility of finding the country in front of a new adventure of very great recession and austerity may strike keys and services of justice, because at this time justice has many serious tasks to do, fighting for no new inequality and injustice to the detriment of the weak and on the part of the powerful and on the part of the established in our country of interoperable, political and economic power. The government of Mr Mitsotakis, the abstention and current Prime Minister from Parliament and his absent ministers, has shown that he cannot serve and does not want to serve these purposes of justice, because he does not want it as an independent institution, but as a controlled institution, as a toy, by deviating it, even by derogating procedures for the award of justice, even this process of justice which, according to the Constitution, the House itself has undertaken. Proof of depreciation is also the absence, proof of depreciation, and this unprecedented process of enlarging indictment. This proposal, therefore, today, to extend the indictment, in our view, is another proof of the work of the institutional process in order to achieve preconceived, predetermined political goals. At the same time, however, as I pointed out from the outset, it is also the proof of your failure. It is the ultimate fiasco of your narrative about supposedly a preparation in the "NOVARTIS" case, it is the fiasco of the same pre-examination procedure that is being conducted. We are not going to contribute to the legalisation of this bottle. We will leave you tomorrow to take responsibility for the voting process on your own. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This is our answer to the efficacity of the procedures so far and to the further involvement of justice in toxic micropolitical designs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u195	The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Ioannis Bougas, MP Mr Fokidos, prepare to come to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Officership, Mr. Tsipras, began his speech, asking what Mr Mitsotakis and the Government want to tell us with empty chairs. In reply to Mr Tsipras the Constitution itself, he gives it to Rule 86 of the Constitution, which, if you had trouble reminding your Chief, colleagues of SYRIZA, you would see that only Parliament is responsible for starting criminal proceedings against Ministers or State Secretarys. Mr Mitsotakis and the government therefore want to tell you that they fully respect the Constitution and the parliamentary procedure. The question, however, is not what the Prime Minister and the government want to say. The question, after Mr. Tsipras's speech, is what the Chief of Police is trying to say. All of us who have followed today's speech were waiting to defend Mr Papagelopoulos. He didn't do it. We expected him to speak specifically of the alleged errors, omissions and cancellations of the Special Parliamentary Committee. He didn't. Instead, he generally talked about justice and repeated what he has said so far about general government policy. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the task of the Special Parliamentary Committee, as you know, to investigate possible interventions in justice from the previous government, with an executive hand to the former Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr Papagelopoulos. The aim of these interventions is to ensure that judicial and public prosecutors, in breach of their duty, have - without any evidence - prosecuted against ten specific political persons who had been carefully and methodically chosen by the previous government. The committee, I remind you of the Chief of Staff Response and his colleagues, is working as a collective prosecutor. That specific function requires it, inter alia, the collective exercise of its duties and powers, on the one hand, to require each member of the committee to be subject to the limitations, obstacles and exceptions relating to judicial officers and investigating officers, as laid down by law. I'm saying that, so you don't go too fast to talk about voidities in the process. The committee, ladies and gentlemen, has worked and worked methodically, is faithfully observing the letter and is following the spirit of the Rules of Procedure of the House and of the law. It shall take its decisions democratically, on the basis of the majority principle, following an exhaustive dialogue in which all the views of its members are expressed. The limit values - and I would remind you - and dubious situations and the innovative issues which have been called upon to deal with were judged on the basis of the principle of legality, following opinions from the Scientific Council, adopted on similar occasions or ad hoc, such as the decision to extend the indictment. More views were adopted, the most favourable to the person controlled, as was the question of the examination of witnesses with a fictitious name. We accepted, I would remind you, that we should look at the witnesses without seeing their faces, which was not the case when they were examined before the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Arrow. We have stood in the way of those who have attempted to block the work of the committee or to cancel critically to find the truth inquiries. We removed extreme anti-parliamentary behaviours, refusal to comply with Members' decisions by a large majority, and we responded with defiance, with legal and parliamentary arguments to insults and propagandas. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] We have thus prevented some people from trying to frustrate the validity of the committee so that they can denouncing it and question its conclusions and decisions on the substance of the case under investigation. Since the first meeting, we have shown our determination to look for the truth and to highlight critical aspects of the case which, until then, I would remind you, had not been touched by justice. We have examined individuals who have played a crucial role in the 'NOVARTIS' case, who have provided important and critical information and documents. We have not allowed witnesses to be seen, and we have allowed everyone to testify to the facts. We prevented the distortion of the truth by leaking untrue information. We did not hesitate to denounce behaviours aimed at preventing the work of the committee, such as the refusal by the Prosecutor of Corruption to grant us crucial documents on the investigation. Of course, only SYRIZA, no other party denounced cancellations. But when you talk about extremes, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, it is useful and you should identify and tell us what the voidities are, in which article of the Code of Criminal Procedure is contrary to the Commission's actions so far and cause nullity. Ladies and gentlemen, the company 'NOVARTIS' is alleged to have carried out unfair practices involving doctors and executives, in particular, the aggressive promotion of its products. The duty of the prosecutor was to check these cases so that, on the one hand, the persons responsible, and, above all, - I would point out this - can the Greek State 'enforcement' and receive fines and administrative penalties. To date, I ask, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, what has happened? Absolutely nothing, with great probability - and I stress the word 'probability' - the main offences have been dropped, with the responsibility of those who have so far handled the relevant cases and handled them in the years that SYRIZA was responsible for governing the place, your party. The prosecution authorities have not yet established an illegal or unfair conduct to enable the Greek State to turn against it and collect fines. So all of this, for which you are accusing us, will have to address the questions you are addressing today to the political majority, to address them to your Party, colleagues of SYRIZA. Why couldn't you check the company in time for unfair practices? Why didn't you manage to impose the fines? Why were you unable to collect the administrative penalties, which would be entitled to the Greek State and to compensation? Public Prosecutors, ladies and gentlemen - and this is the answer - have been confined almost exclusively to finding the responsibilities of ten political people with a view to political extermination and destruction of the parties that belong to them, with a view to enabling SYRIZA to win the previous elections. So that's the reason. That is the answer to the questions you have raised. The whole design obviously had political guidance. The task of the Committee shall be to investigate any political, public prosecutors, public officials and other persons in this project. SYRIZA and his MPs, I recall, supported charges against their political opponents in FBI documents, at the statements of the witnesses examined by the US agencies and the statements of the protected witnesses. Those who had attended the October meeting will recall that the permanent incubation of SYRIZA colleagues who took the floor were: "The FBI, the protected witnesses and - allegedly - research in America". How serious, though, can these arguments, ladies and gentlemen, if I say, arise from the investigation that the FBI documents are based on the statements of the witnesses who expect economic benefit? That there are other documents that have been concealed by the House and by the committee, which absolve the contents of the documents available to us and were they deliberately channelled? That the witnesses examined in America are probably the same witnesses that were examined in our country, under a fictitious name? That the protected witnesses were directly involved in the ‘NOVARTIS’ case, were they dependent on a financial benefit from the outcome of the case and illegally granted a protection status? And in order not to think that these are just my own conclusions that may come from evidence, Mr Lappas himself, as SYRIZA rapporteur, said today that he has the legitimate suspicion - if I remember his words correctly - that he is former and presently members of NOVARTIS, the guardian.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u197	I said that... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u198	And if, ladies and gentlemen, does the evidence show that there have been pressures on 'keys' persons in the case to testify against political persons and when they have refused, then they have faced serious charges and from protected witnesses found defendants? What do you say, is there a basis in the 'NOVARTIS' case? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] If all this has happened, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that you may have also contributed to deception?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u199	Make us a lawsuit too!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, in controlling possible criminal responsibilities in the 'NOVARTIS' case complaints have arisen against the investigated, former Minister of Justice and other persons, for unfair interference in the work of justice. The facts of the proposal have been put forward in a concrete and supreme manner by senior judges whose credibility has not been seriously questioned by anyone. Much more - and I want you to notice - no one has motivated these prosecutors to turn against a former Minister of Justice. So it seems that they have absolutely no reason to file serious crimes at the expense of a former minister. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Many of the public prosecutors even kept very good to friendly relations with Mr. Papadigeopoulos. All witnesses described a certain form of criminal activity. In particular, he allegedly channelled newspapers against certain individuals who wanted to target and then used these publications by sending them to public prosecutors in order to carry out exams at the expense of the people he targeted. In fact, it is alleged that it would put publications against even former members of the public prosecutors who did not agree to discipline in the direction they gave, in order to carry out illegal acts and subsequently carry out disciplinary proceedings against them and thus bend their resistance. This practice was filed by the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Award, Angelis and the Deputy Prosecutor, Mr. Riku, in the case of "NOVARTIS". It can, however, be seen that it has also been extended to other cases with serious political implications and a large economic object. In all cases, prosecutors who refused to comply with the suggestions of the Pappropoulou were faced with severe disciplinary persecution, service and personal perforation by specific media named after them. In any case, there was a prosecutor of terrorism against her. Shortly ago, undoubtedly, her personal guard had been removed, which she had had for years. The former Deputy Minister of Justice is allegedly intervening with public statements either in support, as was the case with the Prosecutors who had travelled to Paris to examine Faltsini - who, in a friendly way to him, appeared as the golden team and the children of Papaggelopoulos in justice, or to the detriment of annoying and atrocities to him, as happened in the Tsatani case. All relevant publications in the newspapers are evidence of the Pre-Audit Committee and will, of course, be made available to anyone who must have access to them. For the first time, ladies and gentlemen, five supreme judges, four of whom are active, with excellent curriculum vitae, who have served in neural and confidential positions and have handled major cases, have presented with vivid uncovered interventions by the former Deputy Minister of Justice in their work. That should, at least, concern SYRIZA's colleagues. Instead of aiming, ladies and gentlemen, at the same methods and instruments as are allegedly targeted by your Minister and your Government, the public prosecutors, you had to ask yourself what happened so that in any case you might have the comforting of ignorance. But you have chosen, once again, to identify yourself with the controlled, with what this means to the whole of the former government and the then Prime Minister. The evidence of the case-file produced by the Commission is shocking. What the Prosecutors finds difficult to believe may have happened to a State of law, a Member of the European Union and the Council of Europe. And shockingly, it is what the witness Mioneis put forward in his statement, in which he partially refers to the proposal, which describes the very methodology of interventions and pressures, but gives another criminal parameter of the extortion and economic transactions that were resented even within the Maximos Mansion, the presence of another Minister of Government. So the case gets another dimension. While so far the advisable difference of the Special Parliamentary Committee with the previous ones has been that it does not consider financial scandals, but any intervention by the Executive in judiciary, since it is decided that the indictment should be extended, that is no longer the case, because the new offences are allegedly committed for the purpose of illegal use. What has been said in the proposal, ladies and gentlemen, is a strong signal, which may seriously imply the execution of the crimes referred to in the proposal, is confirmed by reliable statements and not only is not shaken, on the contrary, strengthened and influenced by other elements, but - take note - of the time sequence of things. These elements, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately give a picture of the scepticism and institutional decline of the SYRIZA - ANEL coup d'état, an attempt to control justice by the former government, by destroying the constitutional independence of the functions of the civil society, the functioning of the judiciary and the delinquent system, in the eyes of a'structured group' with specific roles and the aim of committing offences. Ladies and gentlemen, political life cannot be stigmatized by these horrific cases. The Hellenic Republic cannot bear this burden. We have a duty to illuminate every aspect of a dark past. The House must also authorize the committee to investigate new offences. We have proved that we are fully aware of the duty assigned to us. Documentation of the Committee's decisions will be carried out and will continue to be based solely on the elements of the case-file through a process which only badly trusted and self-interested attempts to degrade. We are determined, in the context of Parliament's decisions, to investigate wisely, calmly and also boldly every aspect of the Papagelopoulos case, to find out what really happened, in faithfully respecting the law and the fundamental principles of our Criminal Law. Only if we really know what happened will we be able to shield the institutions so that diversions do not happen again. Democracy is not a vengeance. He's righting the victims and punishing the perpetrators. That will make a contribution to this tomorrow's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u201	When the Step is ready, I invite the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement to take the floor. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u202	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are not at the end of the beginning. It has been months and years since the events of February 2018. Now, we are at the beginning of the end, because the grim role of a former Deputy Minister of Government SYRIZA and ANEL has been revealed, not in its entirety, but in much of it. Dark case. The rapporteur, the Change Movement, Mr Kegeroglou, as well as Evangelia Liikanou, members of both the Committee on Criminal Pre-examination, self-secretary and eyewitnesses of this committee's operation, were clear and clear, as were all the other rapporteurs so far: those who want to clarify the construction and do not want this and those who do not want it to be repeated, and those who, with the wrong analysis, depart from the one - who took the ungrateful role of the gang's defender. The witnesses' statements reveal the scope of the illegality, its size and at the same time make it politically and legally necessary to extend the preliminary examination. The extent of the illegality, ladies and gentlemen, is not revealed by anonymous false testimonies of hoodlers. The witnesses do not have the protection of the hood. On oath, their names reveal what they know. That's normal, you know, statements. What Mr Kegeroglu and the rapporteur of today's government majority witnessed, what the parliamentary groups have seen through an institutional process, without the minutes being made, all say that we have something creepy and disgusting in front of us. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been clear since the first day. I had the intensity of the first few weeks, of course. There's no doubt about it. But I talked about a gang. They told me I might be overreacting. I was saying I'm not overreacting. Today we are not finished. We still have a few weeks ahead of us. We'll see. However, it seems that there is “don”, there are others under him, “caporegime”, as they were told, and the executive bodies that perform political, economic and personal death contracts. That was the gang's logic and action. When I was told 'why are you exaggerated?', I said 'no, these will be revealed, it just takes time'. It seemed that Article 187 of the Criminal Code, then and now, has been violated by the actions of these people. Allow me, because I have listened very carefully, even though I was in the United States, the Deputy Minister, who is currently being investigated to come out of the Maximos Mansion, and I have heard him say not what has been widely observed, that this is the biggest scandal - that we have said a thousand times - the other thing at the end, that the parties must make their own cleansing, that has revealed what their political intention was. This revealed in his naiveness. Obviously, he confessed what he had organized. Did he participate in the organization? He offered it to his party, to the party he was cooperating with, that is, the ANELs and SYRIZA? I don't know. I know, however, that five supreme judicial officers, as Mr Bugas just said, four of them in action, have tabled in a direct and absolute manner and a very strong credibility of what they know. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I listened to it. They warned that there was also a private person coming - I was referring to Mr. Sabby Mioney, in fact, I did not say his name correctly, I did not know him - and he would denounce, as I heard, raw extortion at his expense, under the logic 'payed hard to get rid of criminal and other persecutions'. Modus operaandi of a gang in 187 of the Criminal Code! The target was obvious. The SYRIZA - ANEL government had failed everywhere and had to be held. She had in fact failed her promises. He had to be held since the September 2015 elections and in subsequent years. There is no room for doubt with what has been submitted. There was an Deputy Minister with responsibility for the 'corruption' which he had managed to manipulate prosecutors in order to prosecute, order or not to prosecute - i.e. the misuse of power - and aimed at political gains in favour of the government. Is that what it looks like - and it needs to be investigated - and some money for him? I don't know. For third parties? That's what it looks like, that's what it's called, that's what it's being sworn out. These must be investigated. There is no reasonable person who can hear these words by name and by oath in the pre-examination committee of the House and in justice and says 'It's okay, we didn't hear them or it's not right, it's not serious', and he has taken the so-called hoodiers as a serious matter. Ladies and gentlemen, and in 1989 which I lived as a scientist - I had no involvement at that time in politics - it had a heavier charge against a Prime Minister in active employment, but a lighter infrastructure. There wasn't that thing we've been through these months with the revelation of the offense. All this in the greenhouse of the flowers, the flowers of evil but, of the previous government of SYRIZA and ANEL. Are you not sorry - with all the courage of a relationship of aggressive, congress that I may have with many and many of you here, but also with the possibility of exchanging arguments - Is it possible to accept that the Maximos Mansion, some of course's offices, I am not saying the Prime Minister's office, have there been places for tavernas and for the exchange of benefits from here and from there? And one final point on that, because I do not want it to go unnoticed. Four Justice Ministers have changed. I've lived them. Four Justice Ministers! The Minister of Justice against Corruption, Mr.Nikoludis, Minister of Justice, Professor of Justice, Mr. Paramadopoulos, Minister of Justice Mr. Kontonis and Minister of Justice Mr. Kalogerou. They all changed, common denominator had one. Mr. Papagelopoulos. He enjoyed the government's confidence and that is clear, clear. All the others came and went, he was stable. There is something at political level about this. Ladies and gentlemen, evil happens when the good ones do. This House did not fail, thankfully it did not fail. If it were inactivity, it would be consensual, while it has no such right - nor moral - to remain silent against the 'NOVARTIS' regime, with the offences that have shaped it, but also with the more general functioning of the outlawing court, as the Minonis case, which includes a terrifying cynicism reveals. You don't expect to hear this! Now with what I hear here and what has emerged from my research for three years, I would like to tell you how it worked. What is my experience as Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement? It does not all start with 'NOVARTIS'. We've had that impression badly. It all started on the Mioney - Metaxas - Papastavrous case in the case of the Lagard list. How did the system work there and how did it be repeated in the case of 'NOVARTIS'? Here, there are reports from a friendly type of government. The Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office is being activated on the basis of the papers. I have even witnessed, from information, that the other man was going to the interrogator or the prosecutor and showed him an excerpt from the well-known newspapers. He said to him "that's what I'm investigating." They were certain journalists and specific literature. At the same time, go to America. Go over there to the authorities and make a complaint. The American authorities long wanted to operate, but once there, it was imported into Greece through the same circuit. That's it. That was it, and when political dialogue was taking place, they told you "but, the FBI said it." But the FBI or the American tax authorities have gone to the same people, who are now being formed for them - one after another - which I do not know where they will lead. We'll see. Now we're not in the end. We're at the beginning of the end. How was the complaint received by Greece in the United States? There was a Minister for Corruption with the Secretary-General, Mr. Papagelopoulos. I have told this House ten thousand times the following. Why was Mr Nicoludis removed, whom at the time the majority had a flag? What didn't Mr. Nicoludis like? Apparently, he wasn't carrying out orders, he wasn't performing death contracts. I don't have another explanation. I'm listening, I'm learning, but I can't use unscrupulous words that I'm being told, but I can't substantiate them. It would, however, be a matter for this man to talk at some point. They kicked him out. Who did they put in his place? Mr. Papagelopoulos, the willing, Deputy Minister for Corruption. We therefore have this system operating in the Mionis - Papastavrou - Metaxas, Greece - the United States, to receive this structure of the government in Greece. Of course, we need a facilitation from the Marble Ice and tools from the Prosecutor of Corruption. That is why provocations ate Mrs Ryku and appointed her successor, in the way she was submitted to the Committee on Criminal Prevention how many problems she had. What happened, ladies and gentlemen? All willing men were on the front line, the government, the facilitation of the Ice Bay, and the tools, the Prosecutor of Corruption. What happened to the story of Mioney - Metaxas - Papastavrou? Mioney's clean from control. I don't control, nor do I know the man, at least well. Cancel all warrants for businessman Metaxas, whose health was hit in a key way, than I've learned. He's an unknown person to me. Absolute justice by Greek justice for Mr. Papastavrou. He dared today, in the crescentos of his speech, Mr. Papagelopoulos to say about a check carried out at the house of Mr. Papastavros. You're lying today. Publication of his friendly newspaper replicated here. Why do you say "did you do that?" and responds to you - a classic method that was never democratic - 'Who said that?' Do you say "the one" and he says "the one who is short, who is tall, who is fat, who is impossible?" He does not say'response to what he said', but describes him as degrading the essence of his arguments. This ancient insurance practice has been seen by this particular man to use here. Flag, then, this fake case. I'm not saying she was a fake, I don't know. Justice and administration have said so. But a flag was made in the September 2015 elections. I remember their spots. How should I know what had happened, me being a politician, who was Minister of the previous Samara government? Where does the citizen know? It was an election spot in September 2015, of the then majority. That mold they liked. After they had made it and used it in case I told you, they used it just like this in the case of "NOVARTIS". In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we have two top cases, the Mioney case and the 'NOVARTIS' case, where the system worked exactly the same way. Do we also have a sprain, as has been submitted to the committee for a criminal preliminary examination of the House, in the case of the late Vegeopoulos, the case of Alfouzos, which is linked to the television licenses, the case of George Papachristos, where there is the incredible - make something, do you have nothing for man? Make something - and other cases. The epithelium, the kernel on the cake? Well, the political peaks are given. But to make some money with the unpaid, 350,000 euros in the case of Mioney, and who knows how much the expectation of a 'NOVARTIS' punishment in the United States was. Money waited. I am convinced that the passion of a conspiracy arises from political passions in general, but what happened had more to anticipate money, ladies and gentlemen. They say and are ironic: 'Assembly?'. That phrase was known to me in 2018. I was talking about a gang, about a gangman I don't know who he is, but there's someone who runs this. It is said that these may be called by the parties, by politicians. There were also my friends who said that there is no country in Europe like Greece that we have so many references - we are champions in Europe to that - and fourteen Prime Ministers, please, of the best so far. In any case, these are Greek excesses. But the former prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, Luis Moreno Osambo, came to Athens, gave an opinion and photograph of these people, one in the government, the facilitation of Marios Ice and the specific public prosecutor as an organised crime, and his opinion has been submitted to the committee for a criminal preliminary examination of the House. These, ladies and gentlemen, we know. How much do we know? Has anyone ever wondered about the case of Andrew George, the appeals made by competent prosecutors? Have you wondered in this story what happened? We haven't looked for her. How many others with economics have entered the file? Because what I am referring to, the two large and the others who did not go ahead, but ultimately the former Deputy Minister was looking for them - the two large are the ones known - and they have the content of action. The contents of the omission, the ones that entered the file? We don't know. So we have reservations about the range of this gang's operation. Ladies and gentlemen, take note of something in the case of Mioney. I want to say it as I understand it. Two private individuals agree to give 350,000 euros or not to take 350,000 euros and the other private journalist to secure the judgment of judges, not of one or two acquaintances. Let's say, a well-known judge is who he is. I don't mean to say, is it thought I'm showing someone? A judge who's a district attorney, say, in Larissa, I'm saying now. Not him. One such, two of them and some of the other strangers who will come from draws - Mrs Liikanouli said so - seven in number. How does he know who the private man is, so he can promise that? But is that possible? Is that possible? [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] They're shocking and creepy. I've never heard of them in Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, one here, one so far has tried to draw a tie, to say that the Samara government has done these, because it has tried to agree with him privately. I do not know what the members of the criminal preliminary committee have heard. I did not hear - and I was a Minister at the time - that over the years someone has been tabling an attempt to make a tie, that at that time at the Maximy Maximis effort was made to compromise individuals with the Minister's position and in exchange for money. Anyone who has something like that, who says it, will score, will be evenly even. Anyone who doesn't have said a word about the time. It reminds me of the joke with the rabbit and lion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u203	Finish it, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u204	I shall conclude, Mr President. My last sentence: we are voting in favour of extending the list of offences, which the committee is investigating for a criminal preliminary examination of the House. Any other attitude, on our part, would also be politically dishonest from a legal point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u205	Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA Mr Dimitris Janakopoulos has the floor. Mr. Janakopoulos, I will not demand that you approach the six-minute time. I'll say, if you can, don't get too far from him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u206	We have never observed that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u207	You are parliamentary representatives and there are even two fellow speakers left, but then we have to hand over the Chamber because it has a committee meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. Despite the fact that it was quite challenging about what has been said before, I will respect the position in which Mr Loverdos is located and I will not comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u209	I'm not in any position. You don't respect. You'll say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u210	I respect your position, Mr Loverdo, and I am not going to comment on this incomprehensible conspiracy structure you have created here to actually support a story and a story that you have repeated for a long time, as well as other colleagues from New Democracy, who, I think, are honest today, after what has been said by the former Deputy Minister of Justice, but also by the rapporteurs and speakers of the SYRIZA, will do a great deal to overcome this meeting, because it has proved to be a fascinating fact that we have no more than to do with manipulations aimed at creating impressions or some political feasibility simply. Here we are dealing with a normal setting that had already been announced since the New Democracy was opposition and is unfolding in a way immoral, ruthless, unparliamentary, unconstitutional and deeply cynical. It starts this setting up with a proposal to set up a preliminary examination committee that is not based on any elements. It continues with the exclusion of Paul Polakis and my committee, in a move of incomprehensible parliamentary inconsistency, in a move of absolute institutional diversion. It is also the institutional, legally, procedurally unauthorised undertaking to reveal the names of the protected witnesses, a method and business that the Marios Ice has fortunately prevented - to remember this - because it highlighted the size of your illegality and your absolute indifference to what the Code of Criminal Procedure defines in particular. Fortunately, Marios Ice prevented this incomprehensible illegality that, if it depended merely on the existence of a majority within the preliminary committee, would of course have gone ahead. Luckily, "Ice" put you there. And all of this with the sole aim of terrorizing prosecutors and witnesses following the terrorisation operation you had unleashed when you were opposition. And you know what? The answer to all these incomprehensible accusations, the incomprehensible constructions you have done, for all these years of obscene and falseness you have told it over the years, which has decided by a overwhelming majority - to remind you - that the case-file on which the Prosecutor of Corruption speaks. Do You Remember? The Corruption Prosecutor shall be the official of which the informal Chief of New Democracy, or at least the majority of those present in this debate, Mr Samaras, was suing Mr Samaras to the basket of unusables. By who? By the prosecutor you're saying today that he supports the existence of a craftsman with his words. Who? Mr. Angel. We're talking about rigging situations for anyone who wants to watch one - one step of this story and that unthinkable essay you've done. However, after today's sitting, ladies and gentlemen, there is not even a small child who does not understand the grievance and contradictions of the statements on which the proposal to extend the indictment is based, the flooding in the underground where the documents indicating the reasons why there had been statements from NOVARTIS have been made on one of the witnesses on whose statement you are supporting precisely the expansion of the indictment - it has flooded the basement, what to do? - until you dismiss the disciplinary conviction by judges to two degrees of Ms. Chatanis, who is the second witness on which you base the alleged interventions of Papagelopoulos and the widening of the indictment. And I ask: are all those judges who participated in the disciplinary boards and have decided to condemn Mrs Tsatani disciplinaryly are also members of the gang? How big is that gang now? But look at that. I am not going to insist on conspiracy theories which have been heard, because unfortunately, given the political choice to make the favour of Mr Samaras and to set up a special court, because it is a preconceived decision to set up a special court, we will also have to have serious colleagues - and fellow Members and lawyers - to reproduce all of these conspiracy theories that have been made at the closed centre of the extreme right, which has been held hostage by Mr Mitsotakis within the New Democracy. This is done on the altar of these inner-party balances. And it seems that the internal-party balances, which are currently trying to keep in New Democracy alone the presence of our prosecutors here today, which is at the very least anemic. Obviously this means that there are a lot of people - and I am glad to say - who have reservations within the New Democracy, as shown in the previous vote, we will see what will happen next, in relation to what you are coming here to support. I am not talking, therefore, about fanatics, I am sorry for the serious colleagues from New Democracy, the liberal colleagues from New Democracy, who have a sense of what it means to be a legal authority, who are forced to follow for the political line and the choice of Mitsotakis to do the favour of Mr Samaras, to make charges, to twist statements, to insist on self-proof deadlocks, which cannot stand anywhere where the New Democracy does not have a majority. Because in fact, not just there is no evidence, but there is not even a suspicion of an illegal act. There are so many contradictions that can no longer stand criticism. Furthermore, the fact that the criminal organisation for which you are currently accused of SYRIZA in 2019, according to the main witness, which you are constantly invoking, Mr.Mioniss and Complainant had Chief Vorides, while in 2020 it seems to have remained its own structure, but has Chief of Staff of Mr. Papagelopoulos I think it makes it apparent the nonsense of this construction. You're talking about manipulation, you're talking about criminal prosecutions that were persecuted, you're talking about bribery, about bribery, you haven't told us a case in which there has been criminal prosecution or there has been no criminal prosecution at the command of any SYRIZA government official. You have now discovered Mr. Mioney. Why did you discover him? Because after the fiasco of the construction theory in the "NOVARTIS" case and because you know that it does not come out and because you know that it does not withstand the serious criticism you seek to broaden the indictment. Be careful, however, because this is the political crisis. In your rush and in your attempt to widen the indictment from carelessness, you betrayed yourself. Do you know how you betrayed yourself? Reveal the political setting yourself and send you to the gallery of the useless, and you all the hypocritical, theatrical almost, in the absence of the government from these chairs, because I told you that your decision to go to a special court is preconceived or, in any case, attempt. Of course you have a majority here, which is why I say you will try to set up a special court, and you will then have a majority here if you continue to implement your plan, and that is where justice is going to be a lot harder, but in any case, there will be a minimal role for your majorities. But what is the point he has given you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u211	Try to complete if possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u212	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr. Mononis is pressing the lawsuit. In the lawsuit, he refers to the classified record of the preliminary examination. Where did he get them? Are you going to tell us? You know this is a criminal offence? Don't you know, Mr. Pleari?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u213	Did I give it to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u214	Get your mind to work and you might know where he found it. Point 3: The Advocate General shall forward to the House. The Bureau of the Parliament shall forward the preliminary examination committee with a mandate to relate the case-file to the case-file you are investigating in the preliminary committee. The President of Parliament never announces the adjournment of this case-file here. On the contrary, the case-file shall be transferred to the preliminary examination committee and made confidential. No access shall be granted to Members, no room in which the case-file and Members may have access to that case-file. And suddenly there are thirty Members of the New Democracy who sign a proposal for a preliminary examination committee with knowledge of the case-file. So, where did all this come from? I'll tell you where they came from. It was Mr Mitsotakis' choice, Mr Mitsotakis' abstention, to do Samaras' favor to order the thirty Members of the New Democracy to sign the proposal for the preliminary examination committee. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This demonstrates the size of interventions, infringements, immorality, cynicism and the fact that you are absolutely politically ruthless and that all you are concerned with is the communication of an absent government. Withdraw the charge, so you can leave this room with your head at least high.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u215	The chairman of the committee, Mr Buga, has asked for the floor. Mr. Buga, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u216	I would like to make things right, because Mr Janakopoulos said that the case-file of Minonis was sent to Parliament, and that is where the evidence was drawn in order to establish the proposal that is being discussed today by the thirty fellow Members of Parliament. That's not how it happened. I would remind you and, if you do not know, I would inform you, Mr President, that on the basis of the opinion of the Scientific Council, which we have produced...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u217	Where did they know? It's a setup, Mr. Bouga.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u218	Allow me. Because if you knew about it, you should have said it. The Scientific Council, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u219	Leave the Scientific Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u220	The Scientific Council, Mr President, gave an opinion that, instead of being sent from us to justice and through justice in the House, we can send it directly, as we did. So all the evidence collected by the pre-examination and, in the view of the majority, had been investigated, sent to the House and the proposal we are discussing today was also made.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u221	It was a public document?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u222	Don't interrupt. You've heard a lot of it. You said your opinion, that the other point of view should be concluded now. It's up-to-date.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u223	This information has been made possible by the Members of Parliament to be aware of.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u224	Where does the intention of the Members appear?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u225	There's the file.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u226	Mr President, in order to restore the truth, colleagues and those who do not know must be aware that what has happened has been done on the basis of the scientific opinion of the Council of Parliament. The case-file was forwarded by the Special Parliamentary Committee, the Members were informed and, on the basis of the case-file, the proposal was made. So the parliamentary order has been fully respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u227	I invite the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou, to step in for ten minutes. Then Mr. Paulakis will speak. I see that Mr Mylonakis is not in the Chamber. I don't know if he's coming. This means that we are finishing our meeting after two Members. Mr. Nicolakopoulou, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the political life of the place does not leave any shadow. And there is no shadow in particular in the sensitive area of justice, which is a key pillar of our democratic culture. The roles of executive and judicial authority must be distinct and no interference in the field of justice by the executive is forgiven. The aim of the pre-review committee at the outset was to shed plenty of light on the case, not to have any shadow and to investigate any criminal responsibilities of the former Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Dimitrios Papaggiopoulou. It was necessary from the moment that at least two leading judicial officers, such as Ms. Rykus and Mr. Angelis, denounced specific criminal offences. It was necessary, when seven political persons on a long political route, including two former Prime Ministers and former ministers, were acquitted by a public prosecutor without even being referred to the audience. This means not only a lack of data, but also a deposit of untrue data. We need to investigate under what conditions and how this false statement has been organised. Which favoured state can say no to investigating such a case? What political power can refuse to give full consideration to all elements and to highlight the truth? Civic Opposition consistently refuses the investigation of the case. Nevertheless, the pre-examination committee proceeded in an objective and scientific manner, in a perfectly legitimate manner and with respect for the presumption of innocence, and called for a large number of witnesses and carried out a series of pre-examination actions. Research is clearly defined and delimited by the mandate and the previous plenary decision, but since the investigation reveals serious evidence of execution and other criminal offences, these should be further investigated, especially when this information comes from public prosecutors and other than those mentioned above, such as Mr Athanasios, Mrs Tsatanis and Mrs Kyvelos. And that's why we shouldn't make any discounts. We mustn't leave any shadows. We need to investigate everything that has been brought into committee and goes beyond the limits of the original mandate. We cannot hear in the pre-inquiry committee and indeed in most public prosecutors that they were being blackmailed through the dissemination of publications against them in specific newspapers and through the exercise of disciplinary proceedings against them on the basis of these publications and we are deaf. And I cannot accept that these prosecutors, who took on specific and distinct positions, are not credible. We cannot hear in the pre-examination by businessman Minonis that private professionals were being discussed in the Maximos Mansion, that the course of the settlement with the pre-eminence of court judgments was planned, and that is to say, money, that is to say, costs, and that we should "collage it" and not investigate it. I cannot accept that this businessman is not credible, but the previous government was calling him at the Maximos Mansion for negotiations. We are investigating, we do not "handle" and at the end, if anyone is innocent or guilty, we do not decide it but justice. Ladies and gentlemen, from the beginning of the debate in Parliament, the original proposal, the Qualified Opposition is trying to devaluate the work of the pre-review committee, but also to delay it. We heard from the Qualified Opposition attack on the members of the pre-inquiry. There were members who were proposed by Officer Responsibility, who should have witnessed and raised a legal issue that delayed the process. We have heard requests for exceptions and requests for postponement prior to the examination of critical witnesses. We have even heard questions of the safety of the meetings of the committee because of the coronary in the last three weeks that the meetings have started. In these cases, in such serious complaints, you are not delayed, but you speed up in order to shed plenty of light. You do not let the institutions of justice and the credibility of the political system be activated. Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the investigation of the case, are you trying to put forward and even stick to the 'NOVARTIS or a construction' scandal today? You do not see or do not want to see that there may be a NOVARTIS scandal and an attempt to exploit a possible scandal to target political opponents, as shown by the acquittal of seven political persons or even divert the investigation from its real dimensions and real guilty parties. Really, what have you been doing for so many years about the actual investigation of the NOVARTIS scandal and how many were found guilty? In itself, however, such a mere dilemma also reveals an defending claim, which you are trying to articulate. You want to say that since there is a NOVARTIS scandal, there is no guilty manufacturer. So we should not investigate such complaints, hiding that there may be one and the other. With a similar simplistic argument you are now trying, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Representation, to look at the widening of the indictment of the former Deputy Minister of Justice. You are now saying that there is no evidence from the pre-review committee's investigations to date and that that is why we are proposing the widening of the charges. Even if it is true that there has not been enough evidence in the original indictment, which in no way applies, is this reason not to investigate new acts brought forward by witnesses and even by prosecutors? Who can say no to enlargement, when Vice-President Athanasios, who was also an economic prosecutor, states that he has received unbearable pressure from the former Deputy Minister of Justice on serious cases, such as the Viselopoulou case, the Lagard list, the freezing of media ownership assets, Mr Alfouzos? He was filed with the same prosecutor that he was asked to make evidence against the journalist Papachristos. And what reason did a prosecutor, like Mrs Cyvelo, have to denounce Mrs Toulupakis' selection procedure for the prosecution of corruption when she had not asked her to take over the post? Ladies and gentlemen, the complaints and the information received in committee are important, they are worthwhile and in any case they are undeniably evidence as required by the law. And I will respect the secrecy of the proceedings without entering into details of the deposits. This case should be investigated in full. No shadow left. Let everything come to the light. That is what we should all say 'yes' and not leave. I would therefore ask you to vote on the proposal to extend the indictment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u229	Thank you, too, for keeping not only the lawful time, but for giving us a discount. Please prepare the Step. I'd like to call the last speaker today, Mr. Paulo Polakis. Here, Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u230	Thank you very much, Mr President. Wait a minute to settle my papers, because here we have to always talk about evidence and papers, and I, you know, I always have plenty. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with a pointer. When the pre-examination committee was formed with a political decision of yours as revenge towards those who gave you the previous time, the decision on Papagelopoulos came following the lifting of immunity of my own - as if I had personal differences, we would share the fields of our grandfather's with your candidate MP Mr Poulis, this archival of CEDEFOP and Mr Stournara - then this decision came, then the media had been treated: "It is recommended for pre-examination. Here will reveal the scandal of construction, and so forth. Today, guys, talking about the expansion, why has it been like that in the media? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Your feds of not 20 million, but they are about 100 million of what you've given in this recent period, so chimpanzees you are to support independent journalism! Why don't they write a word? They've buried the matter. Because you're out of your mind. You're getting rid of today. Trying to expand, strive to support the case of construction with other deposits rather than "NOVARTIS", is acceptance of overwhelming defeat for what you have tried to set up. Just one word about what he said, which tried to answer what Mr Bugas said. Mr. Buga, Mr. Mioney filed a complaint on the day he filed the pre-inquiry. This lawsuit he went to the prosecutor’s office had exact extracts of other witnesses’ statements. Where did he get them? First. Secondly, Mr Tsiaras sends it here on his command that the Mion's lawsuit be linked to the material of the pre-inquiry, because it is linked. Has it ever been announced here? Did the President, who was carrying out the president's debts, even at some point? Did he say that? Oh, no. Tell me the date. It wasn't announced. So there was no public document. So the twenty-nine Members of Parliament from the thirty signatory to it, who are not members of the preliminary investigation, cannot be aware of these statements because they are confidential. I can see you chalking again. Prior to hyperemia with what Raguss said, now you're glowing. Side, murmur. It's a serious procedural misconduct that you've done - you've started to blush, it means that I'm right -, of course, it's not gonna stay that way. But these are the fellow sinners, they're around, they're the garnish. Let's actually go. What are you trying to prove? Because here we'll talk with names. And I will start from what you think got you into the foam, that, anyway, Rasputin Papagelopoulos entered into a private dispute between Philippeke and Mioney and Papastaurus who played in and went to clean up and control justice and to do and show. And Mr. Loverdos came out before and said, "But has this been said about Samaras?" So let me tell Mr. Loverdos and put it down for the Minutes - because all your jewels and your pillows today did not give him publicity - that Mr Filipakis has published in the newspaper "Dimouratis". He has posted it: "Mr. Philippaki's Memorial of Bombs" which says that for this difference they had, which he said in detail... Oh, Papagelopoulos previously humiliated you. How do we take off the onion, so she peeled you one by one. Well, I am strengthening the peeling, because there are some hair left in the end. It says, therefore, that this was done before, because the Greek Government intervenes, Mionis is there with organisations, etc. It says, therefore, that Mr Filipakis - I am reading himself: '11 December 2012 at 20.30'. It's published, it's not classified. "My meeting", by Philippakis "with then Prime Minister Antonis Samaras at the Maximos Concert Hall in the presence of Alexis Tarkas. There we were pressurized not to write anything about the cases of Mr Stavros Papastavros, Sabby Mionis and Angelos Metaxas for a period of two or three months. After this time, Mr Samaras told us that he intended to remove him from his staff, because he knew about his activities. From one point and then participated in the meeting and Director of the Press Office of Prime Minister George Mouroutis. 11 June 2013 Mr. Mononis filed an appeal in London, because he also had business there. 5 July 2013", a few days after the complaint, "I again look to the Maximos Megaron at the initiative of Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, fearing the noise that will erupt from the dispute with Mr. Papastavros and with Mr.Mionis and Mr. Metaxas. He insists that I settle with them. 11 June 2013" six days after "first meeting with Mr. Papastaurou and Alexandros Tarkas as part of the organisation of the compromise, for which Mr. Samaras insisted. The meeting was held at "AEROTATO" in Pagkrati. What do you think? Papagelopoulos is Rasputin. What's Mr. Samaras?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u231	You don't get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u232	I don't get it? My perceptive ability has IQ 140.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u233	Mr. Floris, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u234	Let's go to the next one. Mrs. Ryuku - well, good for the children - who remembered to denounce Mr. Papagelopoulos and call him Rasputin... I won't say what he's saying. I don't know. I will say what I lived as the Deputy Minister for Health of the previous government and which I had been charged with with the duty of what we find dirt to lead it to justice, to independent Greek justice. I, with my hands, went to Mrs. Ryku, the first conclusion of the NSA auditors who had within seven, eight cases. What we had published - I thought then, innocent child, that I would say: "Look, look, what we found in CEDEFOP, how many ate from 2010 to 2014!" And I'd tell the reporters - when they hit me, then when that necklace came out with a guarantee and he called me a dog and I answered him properly. And then, "My God, Paulis swears! Polacism". Well, then, that's what I was saying, 'cause they were all caught in CDC. Those I had in front of me had been fed by the CDC. They'd open up after them. And they touched them where it hurts them. I interviewed them, but I understand that I was turning the knife to the heart of their hatred and ribbon. Then I figured it out. So with my hands, I went to Mrs. Riku's case. One of these was Mrs Stournara's case that took 600,000 euros for cancer advertising with a scandalous award procedure, etc. Along with her, there was another company. For the other company, the other case - because they were two packages in this case - directly sent it to the prosecutor to prosecute. In the case of Mrs Stournara, a whole year later, she had not played for five. Do you know why? Because he did not find - he says - what was the composition of the Board of Directors. She was missing two alternate members on the day she decided to assign Mrs Stournara, scandalously. The competition has been delayed, and so on. He hadn't played five. And when I tell her, she answered: "But I don't find them. It can't be done'. Then, on the second, the third time I bothered her: 'We have flooded'. The flood had not only destroyed the ‘NOVARTIS’. He had ruined more. This is Mrs. Ryku. I'm telling you one. Let me say one second: The twenty-three appointments of Adoni Georgiad who has now been prosecuted, etc. Those appointments I took them. A year later, he still hadn't played. Nothing. The case started to be investigated later. And the story came out that it was a grant from the 'ESTEE LAUDER'. All this is ruined. It seemed to be from the state budget. And it was the way for Mr. Georgiadis to raise his poster. For Mrs. Ryuku, I can talk for hours. Of course, I do not forget this: her husband took it from NOVARTIS. And she had the list in her hands. And you wanted to proceed with the NOVARTIS case? And she denounces Papagelopoulos for Rasputin a year later? To understand how disgraceful and in clay feet setup is. Mrs. Tsatani is an excellent lady and an honorable prosecutor. He cleaned Vengeopoulos who had taken "OLYMPIAKI" with a euro. You remember that with a euro he was taken by this great businessman, forgiven now, who was unloading the black, the five billion, who was the front of some others. Charge Cyprus. Cyprus entered a memorandum and it was his fault too. He did all he did here. And his dirt went out and Mrs. Chatani cleaned him in seventy-two hours, taking the story. And she says, "Raspoutin" Papaggiopoulou. Mata Harry says "Raspoutine" the other one. Let's talk about the rest. Mr. Loverdos is gone. I want to remind him he's been prosecuted against him. Let me remind him. Here, in the persecution that we did crafting and miracles and miracles, Greek justice decided that it had probably taken over 200,000 euros to put Gilenya unique medicine. They're denounced by evidence. To prosecute him, a judicial officer decided that they had such evidence. And it describes in detail the findings of the petition that he invoiced Tasigna with more than 1000 euros than he should have, that he invoiced Gilenya with 500 euros more than he had to. And it has all the evidence that on the basis of the average of the three lower countries, it had to have a price of EUR 1000 and a price of EUR 2000. And it's a series of other things. I'll go to the next one now, 'cause I need to be briefed. Let me tell you something. Remember, what a panic black was when in an interview with Papadakis I said obviously, the protected witnesses are "NOVARTIS". Remember, what did you do then? Remember, what orgies? It was February 2018. In fact, it was February 7, 2018. Come here now, Mr. Flouris, for the first time you heard it, and then your prolongation and your media and get a post from 'IEFIMERIDA', Syrizaiko leaf, where on 5 December, two witnesses burn in the United States of America, the multinational, who are two former employees - it says, Pleis - one of the largest multinationals based in Europe. They appealed to Washington and said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u235	You're talking about them here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u236	Don't talk. We were talking about them then. On 12 December 2016, the ‘IEFIMERIDA’ briefed ‘Complaints of two former ‘NOVARTIS’ officials’. ΤΥΤΟΠΟΣ, another well-known leaf that supports SYRIZA, says of complaints by two former pharmacy officials. "In the Prosecutor's Microscope "NOVARTIS" says "NATION". The "Parapolistics", Mr. Kourtakis, the meracles, who still runs after our meeting on the plane, my friend Kourtakis writes in: "NoVARTIS officials" are here." Here, it's thirty articles before the day. And then you understood it. And I was accused of revealing the witnesses back then. You guys who went to set up this whole procedural festivities because Samaras said to rest them, what are you doing? Aren't you violating basic principles of fair culture? To say something about justice again. Remember January 2019, last year, I sent an official letter to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, and I said by names. “Tell me why Mr. Guardian who has been persecuted to a degree of felony since February 2018”. Because Mr. Guardis was prosecuted. They found him an account of 40,000,000 euros released and prosecuted him. This was in February 2018. In January 2019, the interrogator has not invited him. And I say: 'Why does he have time to call him?'
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u237	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u238	Mr. Flouris, please warmly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u239	I say: "Why the gang of CEDEFOP - Poulis, Theophilatos, Papadimitriou and SIA - who have been prosecuted for two felonies since June 2018, in January 2019, six months later, you have not invited them?"
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u240	Mr. Polakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u241	I'll be done. I'm in the final straight line. All right, they've spoken for twenty minutes. Then I say to the third question that there is a story about Piraeus Bank, which was the fault of Mr Stournaras, who, with the statements made by the share, was smashed and damaged by hundreds of millions of millions of dollars of Piraeus Bank. In fact, the president of the Bank, Mr. Hadjikolaou, has not been called upon to testify. I went out and asked why these are being delayed. And then, news came out that Paulis is putting a bomb on the foundations of the civilization. That was the crown of all the fed media. “What is this thing? What are you gonna do? It intervenes in justice!' etc. Mr. Scortsos, who came out the day before yesterday for this horrific crime in Rhodes and spoke at the time of the trial, after the prosecutor came out and attacked the prosecutor by speaking like - the property is not lost - Minister in the Premier, and says: "What are these? It's popular afternoon." Boyopoulos appropriately replied to him. I wish she understood it. He doesn't have the cultural burden to understand it. Isn't he interfering with justice? He doesn't put a bomb and a dynamite, and TNT on the foundations of the civilisation? These as a response to a number of things that...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u242	Mr. Polakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u243	No, and I'm not done, because I need to remind you instantly...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u244	You make it easier for me, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u245	I'll make it easier. Now we're done. I'm the last speaker. Look, I want to say two more things. Then you dare talk about manufacturing? We have given EUR 260 billion as a country from state and insurance funds and private expenditure from 2000 to 2010 in the health sector. Public expenditure was 160 million from state and insurance funds and 100 million from private expenditure. From this with moderate calculations, not mine, but from the National School of Public Health with several studies, it has been shown that 30% of public spending and 40% of private spending are black money in the health sector, that is, 85 billion euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u246	Shut up. Don't open any more issues. Shut up! I think there is now a misuse of tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u247	There is the study carried out by Mr Ranos and estimates the overpricing of medicines since 1992, which, with that act of legislative content, was governed by Simitis, who abolished the taxes in favour of EOD, in favour of funds...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u248	Mr Polakis, you are exercising parliamentary control over what you want to complete! You're done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u249	With a start at that time, this development of pharmaceutical expenditure in our country, up to the pic, began in 2010, from EUR 2 billion to EUR 9 billion. Below is the curve that would be if in Greece we negotiated with the insurance funds, we did not make this gift of taxi in pharmaceuticals...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u250	You got into other things. Hot request.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u251	It is the substance of the ‘NOVARTIS’ scandal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u252	Mr. Polakis, you have completed with great tolerance. Thank you very much! You have no more reason!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u253	We want to say that EUR 85 billion overpriced drugs, this has been done without a political organisation. And that they have no responsibility and that all those who chaired ministerial decisions know nothing. If two elections had not been held in 2015, they would all be inside, which they needed before for infidelity. Because of the Venizelos law that has escaped...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u254	Mr. Polakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u255	That's what I'm closing down with, Mr. President. I would never accept the CEO of a company and say to me: "Please follow the development of these issues daily and personally, as they concern the next period and almost everything from my superiors". That's what the Guardian tells Georgian.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u256	Other issues are the ones that you can with parliamentary scrutiny...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u257	I have a personal response due to Mr. Karathanasopoulos...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u258	No, you'll give it to yourself. Please! Mr. Karathanasopoulos isn't here. You'll pass it on to him next time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u259	He'll be taken by Mr. Synthrakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u260	No, Mr. Polakis. He's not here and he's not allowed! I won't allow it! Don't abuse my tolerance! Mr Karathanasopoulos is not here and is not generally allowed. Get him on the phone, he's not. I won't allow it! Mr. Buga, you have asked for the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u261	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u262	You have the floor, Mr Buga.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u263	And that would hurt, but it doesn't matter. It'll be heard next time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u264	Mr President, we are reaching the end of today's debate and throughout the entire debate SYRIZA colleagues were threatening to uncover allegedly invalidities. We didn't learn voids and voids. In the end, however, one was invented. And who's that? That the Bureau has not announced that the transfer by the judiciary of the Minoan peninsula has not been announced. I would remind you, Mr President, that the complaint was filed during the hearing before the committee and was the material of the case. So the material of the case-file...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u265	He's lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u266	Mr. Polakis, you haven't interrupted. Please, he'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u267	Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u268	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u269	Please respect Parliament. Hot request! Your parliamentary representative will take the floor. If everyone flies like this, I don't know what's gonna happen here. Please! You said your opinion. He'll say the same person who wants the other point of view. If he doesn't satisfy you, it doesn't mean we all have to agree. That's democracy. Here you go, Mr. Buga, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u270	I'm not going to tell my opinion, I'm going to say what happened. I repeat, therefore, that Mioney's indictment, which was lodged by the same time as the committee examined, was the material of the case-file. The material of the case-file, which was important for enlarging the indictment, together with the Mioney lawsuit, was forwarded to Parliament. This communication was made by the Bureau and this material was accessible to colleagues in order to formulate the proposal that has been discussed today. The transfer of the Mionis appeal, which was made through the Minister of Justice, was linked to the rest of the case-file, and I think that the Rules of Procedure were not well announced by the Bureau. That is exactly what I want to say, Mr President, precisely to restore things to their right dimension. In order not to repeat, voidities are invented only because we have to set up a opposition and support an argument which has proved to be lame throughout the process. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u271	Mr. Janakopoulos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u272	Because it causes me to speak about cancellations, to say that this is Parliament first and we are discussing politically, but if we want to talk about cancellations, let us start with the absolute lack of competence of the committee in which it chairs to exclude its members. And that is the ultimate confirmation that any procedural act followed by that point is completely out of law and Criminal Procedure. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Excuse me, I don't understand why discomfort. When you are attempting to intervene on a secondary basis and even draw a political conclusion from what emerged from this debate, then you are obliged to listen to the response of the opposition. So I do not understand your discomfort or Mr. Loverd's discomfort. So, you want to talk about extremities? First and best of all. Secondly, all the procedure you have followed to violate the Criminal Procedure and attempt to reveal the identity of protected witnesses in another trial, also gives rise to extremities. All of this, I'm telling you again, we'll come, we'll see, regular justice will see on its terms, and then you'll understand exactly where you've violated the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u273	Or you'll understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u274	We haven't broken the law. We don't have majorities. You make the decisions. Now, as far as the procedure is concerned, it has never been announced by the Chair in which you are sitting now, Mr President, neither the committee's delegation to the President nor the Minister for Justice, Mr Chiara, nor the Commission's Bureau. The documents relating to the case-file, Mionis, have therefore never made public documents. It is the committee's confidential material and the only way to have the thirty-member access, despite the fact that it was not created, as usual, a specific room within which he can gain access to the case-file is from members of the preliminary examination committee with the ultimate responsibility of Prime Minister Mitsotakis, who wants to set up a special court to get revenge from his political opponents in an unprecedented reserving operation. That's what I wanted to say, and the rest of this is gonna be a long time to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u275	Here, Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u276	Mr President, I am referring to something that the last speaker told me on the list today, which belongs to the ranks of Officer Response. Mr President, in December 2015, this person had made a reference - it was a budget debate at the time - to many and to me. He did not ask for apologies, and since then I said that when he speaks and says something about me, I will not answer him, because I will explain why I will do about him when his files come to Parliament or when we meet as opponents in the courts. It's been about four and a half years since. I have made endurance in times when the obvious slandering lies were too much. I've exceeded this stage of patience, and now I'm enjoying it. So I repeat this today, Mr President. With this we speak only in the courts or when his files come to the House, because the exchange of arguments - confrontational, friendly, allies - totally contrary to each other requires dialogue. Dialogue presupposes a combination of subjects that each one bears the status of one another, such as a policy. This is the National Representation. I do not recognise this quality in this speech and therefore I never respond to it, even when the funnyness expressed here is demonstrated by documents. Mr President, quite rightly, quite rightly. For four and a half years I have followed a parliamentary tactic with absolute reverence and respect. I follow the same line today in the last few minutes of this sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u277	Thank you, too. We're closing up with Mr. Buga...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u278	I want the floor on personal grounds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u279	Why personal? Any names? Please. Here, Mr. Bouga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u280	Mr President, we had to come to the end of the sitting...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u281	Mr President, you must give him the floor to say what the personal issue is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u282	...to provoke my intervention to tell me what the voids they were talking about...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u283	I want the floor on personal grounds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u284	Mr. Polakis, when I have the floor, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u285	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u286	What half?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u287	Staff shall be preceded by the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u288	But he didn't give you the floor. What's next?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u289	Mr. Polakis, there's no staff. Staff shall be decided by the President. He didn't report anything. He made a second placement abstract and nothing more than that. You have very little time in this House. I have many years and my experience gives me this right, namely to judge, to decide as President as well. You don't have the floor at all. Here you go, Mr. Bouga, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u290	Yeah, but after I'm in favour of what the staff are.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u291	I know them very well, Mr. Polakis. I've given the floor. Here, Mr. Bouga, you have the floor. Please address me, please, to complete this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u292	I'm addressing you. I've tried it twice. I'm trying third and please don't interrupt. So at the end of the process I had to provoke with my last speech the SYRIZA Members to reveal the alleged cancellations. And what are the voids that have been heard, Mr President? It was, on the one hand, the exclusion of the main colleagues from the committee and, on the other, the witnesses concerned. For a very short time, I will speak to you about these two alleged cancellations. [[Noise - Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] Exemption from colleagues, you know very well that it was legally and parliamentaryally based on an opinion from the Scientific Council of Parliament, which emerged in 2010 on a very relevant matter. This opinion is fully documented. The decision of the overwhelming majority of the committee was based on it and therefore, because it was inconsistent with the duties of prosecutor and witness at the same time, the exclusion of colleagues was decided. But I would like to say, Mr President, that if anyone reads the provision of Article 170 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, it will find that not only was it entirely legitimate and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to exclude them, but that exclusion does not cause any nullity in the procedure. The second is that, Mr President, after thirty-two years of active law, I hear that there is an attempt to put an end to it. So, here's why Mr. Janakopoulos accused us of? He accused us because we have tried to look into a way that he did not agree with the protected witnesses himself, and this has caused irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u293	About the Arena Ice, tell us about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u294	We're talking about the Marble Ice document.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u295	And to stop this fairy tale with the Arena Ice, in the Arena Ice, you know that they were examined in person. We followed the stricter procedure, precisely so that no one can claim that we wanted to reveal the witnesses. We also wanted the truth from the testimony of witnesses with a plastic name, no matter how much it hurts you, ladies and gentlemen, the truth was revealed, as if we were looking at them face to face. And they know that the members who participate in the committee do. Mr President, as regards the transfer of the case-file and the legality of drafting a proposal, I think that SYRIZA colleagues owed an apology and should withdraw what they said about alleged cancellations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u296	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u297	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u298	Mr. Janakopoulos, wait a minute, if I may. I would like to say - and I will not just point out - that younger colleagues have to read Rule 68 of the Rules of Procedure. If you want, for the time economy, I will not read it, but I will refer everyone to understand what is "personal" and what the President is doing. So here, Mr Janakopoulos, you have the floor now as a parliamentary representative, while other colleagues read Rule 68 of the Rules of Procedure of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u299	I am not going to continue the dispute with Mr Buga, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy and the Chair of this illegal committee. The fact that he himself accepts to continue to preside over for reasons relating to his party, for reasons relating to the orders he has received from Prime Minister Mitsotakis, that he continues to preside over possibly to maintain the internal-party balances in the New Democracy between the various camps and the various political lines that conflict, so that Mr Mitsotakis can compromise with Mr Samaras is his own topic and that he chooses to do what his political leader and the President of his party have asked him to do. As far as cancellations are concerned, we can continue to argue for as long as you want. In the end, all this will be judged by the judiciary boards. They will, if necessary, be judged at a later stage of the trial, and then it will indeed be very difficult for everything that has been meddled in these months, both personally and politically, but also in law, for all those New Democracy colleagues who have chosen to put aside their legal status and go in terms of political purposes, conduct and bases of trials. Now, as far as the staff are concerned, he has a right...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u300	Mr. Janakopoulos, please help me. When you read Article 68, then you tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u301	Mr President, can you take the floor away from me? I have thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u302	You don't have any staff. I'm sorry, but you had to respect the fact that I treated all of you in the best way and with comfort you took the floor and defended everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u303	Can you remove my word?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u304	Now there's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u305	So I say, Mr President, in my opinion. You have to give the floor to explain what the staff are.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u306	Oh, no. You'll read first, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u307	...and once explained, then - and only then - can you or can't remove the reason...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u308	No, no, there is no staff and the President decides, in accordance with Rule 68(3). And because I am not sitting here statically, but I have been in a dynamic position, Mr Janakopoulou, and I am listening to them all, and I have also been in person, I know what "personal" means for years and I have known the Rules of Procedure very well. I also have an experience here, which is many years old. We must distinguish what 'personnel' means.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u309	After explaining what the staff are, then you decide, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u310	But I would ask you, although I am the sciences that are positive, you who are legal, to read and then tell me that I was wrong. I wasn't wrong. The debate on Protocol No 1312/4-5-2020 on a proposal submitted by thirty Members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group in accordance with Articles 86(1) to (3) of the Constitution and 154 and 155 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure is hereby closed. The proposal for applicants such as under Protocol No 17090/9777/14-10-2019 of the President of the Parliament, who have already established and operated a Special Parliamentary Committee carrying out a preliminary examination against the former Deputy Minister of Justice, Dimitrios Papagelopoulos, extends the preliminary examination already under way in order to investigate any further criminal responsibilities of that Deputy Minister for any further criminal offences: 1. Challenge and tender for the execution of a felony (Article 186(1) of the Criminal Code), 2. Extortion (Article 385(1) of old Criminal Code, 3. Donation of a political official (Article 159(1) of the Old Criminal Code), 4. Staff members (Article 235 of the Criminal Code), 5. Moral automobile in abuse of power (Article 46(1) in conjunction with Article 239 Criminal Code), 6. Moral automobile in breach of duty and breach of duty (Article 46(1) in conjunction with Criminal Code 259 and Criminal Code 259 of its own), 7. Judicial organisation, Article 187(3) (formerly Article 187(5)), in accordance with the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we should resolve the meeting?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-19-S2-commons.u311	With the consent of this House at 19.28 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow morning, Wednesday, 20 May 2020 at 9: 00, on the subject of this House's work: a) a debate on topical and urgent questions; b) a specific agenda; b) a decision on Protocol 1312/4-5-2020 on the proposal, as I mentioned in detail.
