ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the discussion of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘State budget for the financial year 2021’. As we had said yesterday, the six priority Members will speak, one of each party and then, based on the lists given by your parliamentary groups, the dozens have been made. It is a good request in terms of time that you do not put the President-in-Office in a difficult position, which the Conference of Presidents has unanimously authorized to close the microphone. This must not happen. It's not nice. But please think about colleagues in the last two days, because the delay there is finally ringing in the last two days. So we begin the circle of speakers with the New Democracy MP, Theodoros Rusopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget is not just figures in tables. The philosophy of the government suggests to him is particularly illustrated. So the debate on this justifies confrontation on key ideological political axes. Indicate the difference between us and others, the difference in opposition from the government. The philosophy of my party and therefore of today's government under Mr Mitsotakis can be summarised in a phrase: it is liberal and reformist with a social face. It is in practice a reformist with a social person and not only in theory, as is usually the case on the Left. All of the current government's political and legislative initiatives echo this dilemma of liberal reforms with a social face. The budget under discussion confirms the liberal nature of the government's choices and strengthens social cohesion. Note: Despite pandemic and within a difficult financial framework first, there is not even a new tax introduced. SYRIZA during his governance period imposed twenty-nine new taxes. Secondly, insurance contributions to facilitate workers and businesses are being reduced. Thirdly, the strategy continues and so far a successful effort has been made to attract foreign direct investment. Fourthly, we are strengthening the two pillars of our reformist philosophy that look towards the future, namely digital transformation and the green economy. Digital investments such as the 'MICROSOT' worth hundreds of millions of euros, but also many others, show the way. One hundred thousand online connections every day for online courses in schools and universities show us the effectiveness of our policy in a very short time under the pressure of pandemic. In the green economy the budget introduces environmentally friendly costs, energy upgrade of the country, "I save at home", upgrade PPC's role, environmental protection with economic development, respect for the environment. This is, in fact, a liberal agenda with a social person, i.e. with empathy, a creative association that has been achieving with its policies for decades. This social person also proved to be in the difficult pandemic period. billions of euros to support all Greeks, support the ESS, more than double the MSFs, recruitment to health. And the Qualified Opposition, what does it say all this time? What is her own policy and plan? It changes from day to day or from month to month. Who forgot that 'open the border for tourists' or 'why did you open the border for tourists'? Of course the old coconut of a covered with social sensitivity of populism. The policy of auctioning, without a limit and without a reasonable sense. Forty-five years the country has reached the number of five hundred fifty-seven intensive treatment units. Within eight months more than six hundred, or twice as many. More than that, SYRIZA, who is applauding that he has built a hundred fifty in the five years that he has ruled. What the government proposes comes from opposition and calls for one. The policy of 'n+1'. He first asked for four thousand intakes in health. When seven thousand recruitments were announced, he went and asked for 12 thousand recruitments. All of them, except for one thing: privatisation. Because that sounded like this in the Chamber yesterday. The rapporteur has accused us of the fact that the 2021 budget is being privatised. And I'm saying, I couldn't hear well. Then I looked into the evidence and found that from 2011 to 2014, before SYRIZA, there were fourteen privatisations. From 2015 to 2019, which was a government of SYRIZA became twenty-seven privatisations with multiple revenues in billions. I should like to congratulate you on the privatizations, but not on your hypocrisy. A short time ago, from this Step on the grounds of bankruptcy law, I asked SYRIZA's colleagues if they think they're addressing loot-eaters. Now I'm sure of it. That is unfortunately what they believe in our people. That's why they say everything and their opposite. So it is not just the economic elements and figures that divide us. All of this proves something deeper, something more political, a real difference of philosophy and view of the needs of the country, emphasising the "believable view of the necessary policies". This party, which I have the honour of being part of, has never been consumed in fine words. That's probably our weakness. For since the time of Odysseus, the sirens sound pleasantly in the ears of all. We have been relying on the truth, on projects and hard work, that is what actually and optimisticly works for the citizens and the country. You know that they are real results, even if you do not admit them, such as the recent EUROSTAT report - just in October - for the protection of jobs, the upgrading of Greece's goodwill in New Democracy's one and a half years of governance, the upgrading of credit ratings, the upgrading of PPC's value, the historically low borrowing rates that we have achieved, the reduction of income tax on natural and legal persons, the reduction of HICP, the freeze of VAT on new buildings to revive a market that is dying, the reduction of 3% of insurance contributions that you did not vote for in 2021, the suspension of the special solidarity contribution. This and many other things are liberal policy with a social dimension, from which this budget is also intended, and I therefore call on the House to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u3	The Bureau is very grateful because you have saved a few seconds. My colleague has the floor from SYRIZA, Mr Ioannis Giolas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, I will start with a comment on the nationalities, because we are witnessing a very dangerous situation for the country beyond the health problem. And unfortunately, that is why you are, and is, the Prime Minister of the country solely responsible for his logic and his tactics. Now, for the budget, the New Democracy Government has recorded a huge failure in forecasts of economic progress during the year ended in a few days. After all, the numbers are vague and are incapable of vagueness and sects, so that they may be altered according to the beam. The prediction of the government's financial staff, which you adopted with the April's initial stability programme, was a downturn of 4.7%. Just two months ago, with the preliminary draft, you redefined it to 8.2%. Behold, however, the recent measurements of ELSTAT for a recession of 11.7%, recorded by the Greek economy in the third quarter of 2020 compared to that of 2019, which restores you to the harsh reality. Furthermore, the closure of 2020 at a two-digit rate of 10.5%, which you have ruled out, now you too accept it. Otherwise, you say that we are changing and adapting, and that is one way or another. I think you are, ladies and gentlemen, in his tactics'seeing and doing'. After all, you could not overlook the figures announced by EUROSTAT, which for the third quarter had shown impressive growth of 12.7% in the Eurozone, with Greece noting the disappointing 2.3%. No elephant can accept unreliable promises to eject the V economy. To justify your failure you have put forward as argument the second wave of the pandemic, which has severely hit our country sanitaryly and has had a heavy impact on its economy. So the fierceness of the second wave of COVID, which hit the country by now causing every day a hundred dead and economic impoverishment of workers and micro-enterprises, was nothing that was reasonably expected and much less unrelated to the worst management you could do to prevent it from taking the tragic proportions that follow. I am referring in particular to: In the health sector you left to his fate the public health system alone in horrific praises and applause. You have not, however, served the incomplete medical and nursing staff with new, permanent recruitments. We heard something about three hundred doctors, Mr Minister, but none of this. You avoided health centers and the hundred and twenty - seven TOMY, leaving the primary health uncovered, which could have been the great supporter of the system. It has already been cancelled 80% of scheduled surgery, resulting in worsening of the health of suffering from oncology, cardiological and other serious diseases. You have created a climate of complacentness, claiming that you have secured a thousand as a thousand two hundred ICUs, which has proved to be a genocide. More than six hundred, the system crisps. And I mean IM for COVID. You have never carried out the necessary extensive and random tests that would provide infectious agents with the true and accurate display of the course of the virus. All drunken and directed. In education, while the first wave lasted for about eight months, you did not take care to find extra spaces and rooms to reduce classes to a maximum of fifteen pupils and avoid crowding. We heard about a donation of ninety thousand tablets. In practice, however, few sensitive municipalities were those who offered, in fact, without being financially supported by the government. In the middle of public transport in the major cities, people squeeze around like sardines. But there the coronary, in a strange way, doesn't fit! With Santorini's directed fiesta for a country open and secure that managed to defeat, supposedly, the coronary, you created illusions. You have sowed storms about the future of tourist businesses and many other related businesses to them. The result was the collapse of the number of arrivals, the entry without health certificates and constant repatriations, which, on the one hand, exposed us to the eyes of visitors and, on the other hand, were one of the most serious reasons for the enlargement of the second wave of pandemic. The safer health and better economic choice of the social tourism voucher, which could have increased from some 150 million to 600 to 700 million, which we proposed, was not chosen by your Government with disastrous results in both areas by the lack and growth of domestic tourism. In supporting workers and strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises, but also scientists and self-employed, you will not be accused of failing, nor of screwing up. You acted with your instinct and well-known class obsession in order to serve the big business groups and the big traders. EUR 534 a month for ordinary people, over-loans, insurance exemptions and reductions in labour costs for big capital! Farmers saw their products being destroyed or purchased by dealers and owners of large supermarkets at degrading prices when the prices of fruit and vegetables were escalating on the shelves of supermarkets. These were your choices, gentlemen of the government, as they arise from the vague numbers and, unfortunately, the failed tactics you have followed. After what I have said, I do not think I need to tell you that your 2021 budget, which provides for growth to 4.5%, will prove to be a letter or a more correct number of gaps. In this virtual reality, as the government's financial staff presents it, guess now who was the warmest supporter. Don't get tired looking. The Bank of Greece. In the Progress Report on Sustainable Development Goals - May 2020 edition - it says: "Greece records progress in all seventeen higher targets with a higher performance in terms of health and welfare objectives, affordable and clean energy, reduced inequalities, zero hunger and sustainable cities and communities. Positive steps have also demonstrated with regard to decent work and economic development, industry, innovation and the infrastructure network and the quality of education.’ All of this was left in the sphere of desirable, but also invisible, in direct contrast to reality. Moral lesson: If you have such lawyers as Mr Stournara, what do you want with the enemies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglu from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, we are undoubtedly going through a very special and difficult time for our country and society. On the one hand, the pandemic and poor government management that accumulates problems and strengthens the fear and insecurity of the citizens and, on the other, the escalating Turkish aggression with Greece trapped in the lack of strategy, the deadlocked tactics and government devolution. The signing yesterday by Mr Mitsotakis of the unacceptable decision of the summit and, in particular, his statements that the European Union's sanctions are no longer an end in itself, caused grief and caused wrath to all Greeks who no longer hope in the government. For fear and insecurity from pandemic, they hope in the vaccine. To defend our sovereign rights they hope in the national strategy and the understanding proposed by the Change Movement. Last year, we asked for effective diplomatic intervention in the European Union and, at the same time, for the deterrent power of the Armed Forces to be strengthened. The government, instead of promoting the armaments that were stuck by the previous government, recommended a reduction in the budget that they voted with SYRIZA together. This year, the Change Movement is voting for the increase in armaments for 2021 to 2 billion, although it is not enough, and at the same time it requires speeding up the critical equipment with transparency and a plan to strengthen our defence industry that has been abandoned for six years. Ladies and gentlemen, the problems accumulate and drown the economy and the citizens who are experiencing very difficult and the government, instead of focusing on dealing with them, exploits pandemic and promotes the conservative agenda and purposes. It promotes in all areas the concentration of wealth in less and less hands that broadens social inequalities. It is characteristic that the liquidity in companies to deal with the pandemic was channelled to 80% of the large, 50% of the large, and 15% of the small and medium-sized, with additional gifts to the powerful friends of Maximus, with the withdrawal of institutional procedures and transparency and with the exceptional assignment to become a norm. Bo or plaza for the work that is being set up and shared, for the management of waste and for renewable energy sources in a special office! The government has taken second steps towards dealing with the unfavourable effects of pandemic on businesses, trade, professionals, workers, unemployed, farmers, pensioners, each family, especially on the weak. There is no plan and will, despite the fact that there are currently the conditions to deal with it. Instead of the huge deficits of economic derailment 2004-2009, the indifferent European Union and the division of memoranda-antimonies, we now have the bloody surplus of overtaxation, but now we have a significant European share with sufficient resources of 73 billion in total from the Recovery Fund, SURE, ESDP old and new, the PSC and in addition to the new CFP. Citizens, institutions and parties show considerable maturity and consensus. Exception? The divisive polarization that they often choose densely from the government and SYRIZA, to cover the government failures and purposes and the unreliable and artisanal opposition. Adequate resources and favourable conditions, therefore, for dealing with the immediate social and economic consequences of the pandemic and for a new modern course for Greece with anthropocentric progress. In this context, the Pissaridis report cannot be deceived, but neither can it be considered. There are no major objections to its general conclusions, such as the need to increase the effectiveness and quality of the health system - a product - but to how this is achieved. We do not agree with the domination of great interests in health and not just. We do not agree with the silence of social inequalities that are widening and with the lack of proposals for sustainable development, together with social justice. And everyone wonders, not only from our contradictions, who, while finding that Greece has the worst indirect tax relationship in Europe, since 1,15 of 2014 became 1,48 of SYRIZA, the report resurrects New Democracy to further increase unfair indirect taxes. We are not suffering from reports or anti-reports that some want to make, but from a lack of will and weakness for their political transformation into an integrated plan and implementation plan. And that is the sole responsibility of the government, which, instead of taking advantage of the report, as well as any serious proposal from the scientific institutes, the social partners - GSEE, GSEE, EIC, etc. - for setting up a project, it uses the Pissaridis report as a berde for its conservative choices and purposes, consuming and consuming resources. The Change Movement and the great majority of citizens demand use of the country's economic, productive and natural resources, with an integrated 10-year plan, focusing on human and social life, with immediate measures to support and relaunch the economy and social relief for many, for development restructuring in a new, green, qualitative, productive model, compatible with the fourth industrial revolution and a modern, powerful social state, with the priority of the network of income security for all and a renewed National Health System, as the pandemic reminded us in a tough manner, justifying PASOK and social democracy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Instead, the Government did not draw up the medium-term budgetary policy programme required by Law 4270. The budget of 2021 shall be impregnated with the conservative choices and purposes of the Government of New Democracy. It is a long way from the development goals that Greece needs and light years from the principles of social justice required by society. Obviously we are voting against it, except for the defensive expenditure we are voting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u7	Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor now from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Another budget for the needs of big capital. Urban governments plan through state budgets, with any mix, when with restrictive and when with expansionist policy, the needs of every time capital, deepening the exploitation of the working class and the people, needs such as the delivery of land, shipyard, “LARCO” and other fillets, the cheap labour power first. These are the reforms that Mr Rousopoulos said at the beginning. The figures in each budget reveal who pays and who wins. Is it true who the revenue comes from? Aren't ordinary scales workers, self-employed people, poor farms, pensioners? The data of your own agencies, the government that you govern, reveal it. 95% come from all of them and 5% from the major business groups. Taxes, direct and indirect, all kinds of rags robbing people's incomes to tax monopolistic and multinational groups, to be - says - the system that is attractive to investment. Let's see how the expenditure is distributed. Are they going to meet people's needs or to fund the capital? Do they go to health, open up the hospitals and clinics you've booked, hire doctors, nurses, become new ICUs? On the contrary, what results is reduced costs by EUR 600 million, which means that things will be worse than now that we measure the consequences of pandemic with increased cases, broken up and dead, with patients with other diseases staying without treatment because hospitals have become hospitals of a disease. It reveals the Government's commitment to policy on health trade, strengthening entrepreneurship. This is also confirmed by the gifts he gave them, under the pretext of pandemic. Instead of actually ordering them, he financed them, he sent them clients. Do they go to education, become new schools, new rooms with fifteen children in class, recruit teachers? That is not the case with the budget. Does it have expenditure on protecting the unemployed, granting EUR 600 unemployment benefit to everyone until they get to work? No, on the contrary, it provides for less spending, EUR 1,000,328, which means thousands of unemployed without any protection. Now eighty-five thousand are in unclaimed invisible, as you say. Only 15.9% is subsidised. However, the cost of strengthening business groups with employment programmes for cheap labour is increased. Does it provide expenditure for pension funding, for increases, for the reintroduction of the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions? All your laws, PASOK, New Democracy, SYRIZA and now New Democracy have led to hunger pensions with six hundred and eighty-eighty pensioners getting under 500 euros mixed pensions. No, on the contrary, and here the expenditure is reduced by EUR 2,000,000,067 despite the increase in the number of pensioners by awarding definitive pensions for years. The same is true of subsidiary companies that are reduced by EUR 127 million. The Pissaridis report follows on from the annual reduction in pension expenditure by 3.3% of GDP, from 16.5% of GDP today to 13.2% of public pension and wage expenditure. This will reduce even up to 35% of pensions. The integration of the capitalisation system in the first phase of the subsidiary system and in the second phase, as revealed in the Pissaridis report, and the so-called pension. Thus, the policy of full compensation and strengthening the private pillar in the insurance system is consolidated. Does it provide public care facilities for the elderly or old homes? No, you've left that to private individuals, to charity. With pandemic, the great responsibility of all governments in this matter and the disabled has been revealed. Is there an increased cost to meet the needs of disabled people, other vulnerable groups, the creation of your policy? No, that doesn't appear either. Redistribution and the poor pays for the impoverished. Do we have any expenditure on wage support, reintroducing the minimum of EUR 751 and collective agreements, the third and fourth wages? No, all your reference point is the minimum guaranteed income. Data reveal that 12% of the employees are paid at EUR 200 as much as the minimum guaranteed income. You're fighting the income to shield business groups from a thousand parts of authoritarianism, to act unnecessarily, with criminal persecution, with fines for mass operators of the movement, such as the Agricultural Association, such as the President of the Agricultural Association in Triangle, in Fairness with 3,000 euros. Mr. Hardalia, we give it to you, 3,000 euros to the President, because he resisted from shutting down the bank's store and not going for 60 km of farmers to have the services. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You have turned the country into a special economic area with low wages, flexible forms of employment, a ban on trade union activity, and on the other hand, full immunity to capital with tax exemptions, incentives, tolerance and support for inconsistent action. All of this to keep the downward trend of the profit rate down! You call on the 'SURE' programme of the European Union, the suspension programmes and the 'Cooperation' programme, which you have used and strengthened, as you say, the workers, you have protected jobs. What you have guaranteed are the business groups with subsidised wages and insurance contributions and you have subsidised with workers' money the expansion of underemployment, part-time employment, wage cuts, and you are showing this policy as a job saving plan. You have further reduced the operational costs of enterprises by imposing a unilateral framework on teleworking, which in several cases effectively abolishes the separation of free and working time. All developments reveal the hideous face of the abusive barbarity of the dictatorship of capital. The working class is the only one that can lead society forward with its own power. Modern technological and scientific capabilities can ensure social well-being. In the struggle of rupture and overthrow, the vindication of modern needs will strengthen and change the conscience of the working class itself. Its power, socialism is the answer to the acute people's problems in the 21st century. The JRC will take the lead in organising the struggle of workers and the people, in order to protect health, life and rights, to demand modern needs. We are voting against the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. The floor will now be taken by Mrs Sophia - Haido Asmakopoulou from the Greek Solution and the sixteenth will be closed with Mrs Fotini Bakada from Mera25. And then the first Undersecretary to be Mr. Chacloglu for seven minutes, and we'll enter the first circle. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most important pillars of the state budget under discussion is that of the education section. The ultimate objective should be to continuously upgrade the training provided to ensure equal learning opportunities for all trainees. This can only be achieved through the implementation of an educational policy governed by the values of equality, participation, creativity and innovation. Lifelong balanced and integrated development with the parallel reinforcement of culture, support for cultural creation and sport can help our education to be where it deserves it. But, as we see, she is constantly degrading. Instead of supporting and strengthening students in the midst of the pandemic, he lets them turn to cafés so that they can do their lessons through teleworking. In recent years we have been firmly below European and global averages in terms of both GDP and all state expenditure, according to the 2019 IOB report. Compared to the majority of European countries and the share of education expenditure on the whole expenditure of the general government, Greece is in the last place in the relative ranking of 8.6%, while Italy appears at a rate of 7.9%. Countries such as Belgium, Denmark, Estonia, Cyprus, Finland, Sweden spend more than 6% of their education GDP while in Greece, the equivalent is 4.3%, below the corresponding European average, which is 4.7%. However, according to an OECD survey, we are last in terms of the rate of education in relation to the government's total expenditure. Public expenditure at the three levels of education - primary to upper level - as a percentage of total government expenditure was on average 11% among OECD member countries. In Greece, the corresponding figure is 7%, significantly below the average. Loss of learning means loss of skills and because skills are linked to productivity, GDP growth rates may slow on average 1.5% for the rest of the century. Obviously, the budget of 2021 does not seem to change at all, as regards our country's position on the basis of these indicators. The increase in the percentage observed is mainly due to the fall in GDP rather than to the increase in expenditure in absolute figures. The low effectiveness of education in Greece is reflected in the studies of PISA 2018 and PISA 2015, where Greek students have a very low performance. And what is particularly surprising is the fact that you have brought about a draft law on upgrading - as you say - vocational education and training, while there is a significant reduction in its costs from EUR 85 million to EUR 56 million, i.e. around 34%, which is obviously a very significant difference. You have announced recruitment to general education, which you did not carry out. We also believe that the EUR 200 million increase in the Public Investment Programme consolidates the status of contracted teachers in primary and secondary education instead of permanent appointments. Investments in education should not be purely theoretical. It can be clearly used as a lever for growth. See the example of Cyprus and Great Britain, where thousands of Greek students for studies are resorting to each other over time. This option is identified by a deficit in the part of the economy for our country. In Cyprus, the contribution of the higher education sector reached 4.8% of GDP in 2018 and 2.6% of total jobs, while competition with private institutions also helped improve public institutions. Thus, on the basis of these examples, there can be an increase in the number of students and in Greece without prejudice and extremism. But as long as education is not treated as a source of economic revenue, then we will continue to see it downgrade and mislead. We will continue to watch students do teletex training with the mobile instead of being given a tablet for this purpose. "The increase in expenditure on education should be an integral part of the efforts made by governments around the world to rebuild the economies to ensure that every young person enjoys equal opportunities to continue education, achieve at school and develop the skills needed to contribute to society," the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development underlines in its report. Education will only recover through a radical and consistent change of target from primary to university. Learning and investing in human capital are related not only to good performance in the Gross National Product, but also to a number of qualitative social indicators, such as greater involvement of citizens in democratic functions, higher prosperity and lower crime. In particular, it is strategically important that universities play a role in the economic development of a country, as well as in specific sectors of economy and individual enterprises. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We in the Greek Solution firmly believe that education can clearly be a real development machine, linked to the economy and society. Research, innovation and knowledge can define not only our lives, but also define our direction towards our future. This is also linked to the provision of substantial incentives for returning our young people who left our country in the years of the memoranda. Greece needs them, too, on the Greek Solution, we have proposed to you many times until today the ways and incentives that can be given for their return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u11	Mrs Fotini Bakadima has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt at all that the pandemic, the pandemic of the coronary that we have been facing in recent months, is something unprecedented and something with global implications, even though we consider the impact it has on a country like ours, a country with anemic economy, hit by ten years of crisis and four memoranda and a national health system which has been thrown out of the crisis and the policies of strict austerity. This is a National Health System that had huge problems and shortcomings before the coronary visited us, but which the coronary came to bring to light and enlarge. Indeed, something that we all recognise, health workers, like all workers in hospitals in our country, with self-sacrificing and over-emphasizing are keeping the ESS up and providing care in the cases of pandemic and all other patients. If we look at the budget for 2021, we will be careful how the costs of dealing with the pandemic are expected to be up to EUR 5.5 billion, of which 2.5 are intended for disbursements and the other 3 will be committed as a pillow and will be used if necessary. It is precisely this wording in the recital, for use if necessary, that clearly indicates the objective of the New Democracy. Who's that? That it does not intend to proceed to immediate reinforcement of the ERC. It may consider that it would be more useful to finance the media once again. It won't surprise us, it won't surprise us if that happens. The total amount now of measures to address the financial consequences of the pandemic is expected to reach EUR 31.4 billion, of which EUR 23.9 is for 2020 and EUR 7.5 in 2021. In fact, you seem to have budgeted for the donations, the ones that will make our wealthy fellow citizens, thus choosing once again the transfer of constitutional obligations of the state to private individuals. But, ladies and gentlemen, you must understand that it is not possible for a country in the 21st century to expect wealthy benefactors to implement joint projects and donations. You should understand that we do not live in the 19th century and that we have moved forward for two hundred years, that we do not live in the era of Evangelos Zapas and George Averov. We don't have to wait until ICU beds are created by donations. Because let us be honest, even if they are created, there will be no staff to serve them. Ladies and gentlemen, the day before yesterday, on Thursday that passed us, I was in my region at the 'State of Nice'. So, speaking with the workers, I and Mr Ragus are here, with whom we were there on Thursday morning - that although the IFO beds were opened after donations, there is no staff to do so, so they remain closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u13	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u14	So you think the employees' representatives have lied.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u15	They must be informed...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u16	Ask the workers who were in "State of Nice", Minister. That's what they told us. If they lied, if you lie to the workers, you can tell them. As MERA25, we have argued from the very beginning that the National Health System must be supported not now, but yesterday. From the first day and at the very moment, and with an amendment we tabled, which you have rejected, we have asked for all the subsidiary to be permanentised, for supplementary recruitment of nurses and paramedical and medical staff, for the creation of a pan-Hellenic network of mass testing sites, which could be used in the second year as vaccination centres and then converted into primary care centres and for the realisation of private clinics, which would actually be able to unload our charged hospitals from patients. As far as our proposals are concerned, we have calculated that, with a sum of 1.8 billion euros, what we are all talking about, support for the ESS, which we are talking about, could be done, but it is probably a fruitful hope. Why are we talking about 1.8 billion? A sum of one billion will go for the operation within the first two months of 2021 of the public network we are proposing, the mass tests, vaccination and primary care centres of the ESS and a 800 million for the immediate recruitment of permanent doctors and nurses. So the total is 1.8 billion. It seems, therefore, that if you really wished, tomorrow morning from the EUR 3 billion you have put as a pillow, that you will keep to use if necessary, EUR 1.8 billion could be provided to create both the pan-Hellenic mass testing and vaccination centre, but also to strengthen the ESS staff to stop being the big patient, as we call and hear from calling it in recent years. On Thursday night, in the Ministry of Culture bill, the Minister of Health tabled an amendment to the national vaccination campaign, in which we voted'residents', not because we are against vaccination - we have said so from the outset - but simply because there are still a number of points we should discuss. Citizens' information is an important part and we should all contribute to it. Nevertheless, we need to know how these centres will be created, how they will be managed, how they will be financed, what happens when the vaccination process is completed, that is, what the use of these centres will be, how much the information campaign and the technical part of the centres and staff will be. Ladies and gentlemen - and I close with this - what the pandemic has made clear is the fact that strengthening the ESS cannot be delayed. Citizens need to take care of them every day. The health workers who fight the front line should be supported. That is why we propose that the EUR 1.8 billion should be given immediately to stand up to our National Health System at the moment. If you do not choose to do so by hoping for the charity to increase the EITs, we would like you to tell us why this 3 billion euro pillow will be used, with what usefulness and for what purpose, why citizens should be informed. We cannot play with such an important part as their health. As MERA25 - and I am closing with this - we will vote against the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u17	The Foreign Minister, Mr Tsakloglu, will now take the floor on behalf of the government for seven minutes. I read the first half of the first circle of speakers: Mr. Stavros Kalogonnis, Mr. George Borentemenos, Mrs. Marietta Giannakou, Mr. George Kaminis, Mr. Dionysios Stamenitis and Mr. Evangelos Apostolos. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget is rightly seen as a top act of the Parliamentary Republic, since it is its object in the way of budgetary, economic and social policy. This debate inevitably introduces the concept of time, consistency and welfare into political planning. In other words, we have a responsibility, not just to have accountables for the finances of our home, but we must design actions and policies that will lay the foundations of sound, strong and sustainable long-term development. Although, in the past, budgets have been implemented consistently, very often, what was lacking has been long-term prudent planning, generally the balance between today and tomorrow. On the contrary, this budget is characterised by this long-term targeting. In 2020, due to the pandemic, the priorities of the Ministry of Labour have changed considerably in order to address the consequences of the pandemic. In addition to employment support measures, we have implemented measures such as grants and prolongation of insurance contributions and unemployment benefits, suspension of instalments of arrangements, support for workers who have been suspended, gift coverage Easter and Christmas and further implementation of the insurance contribution scheme for 100 000 new jobs. As a result, in 2020, the revenues of the Social Security Institutions will be reduced by EUR 2 billion, while, on the contrary, their expenditure will be increased by EUR 2.6 billion compared to the 2019 budget. Overall, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will spend EUR 3.6 billion on dealing with the consequences of the 2020 pandemic and EUR 2.5 billion on 2021. The income of the Social Security Agency for 2020 is estimated at EUR 44,1 billion, while the expenditure at EUR 44 billion and the corresponding estimates for 2021 amount to EUR 43,4 and 42,7 billion. Of these total revenues I mentioned, the EUR 21.9 billion in 2020 and the EUR 20.6 billion in 2021 are transfers of the State budget to the Social Security Agency, in practice demonstrating the support of the welfare state from the budget. For the Ministry of Labour, 2021 is a year's challenge for social security. We are completing the implementation of the new insurance law by Law 4670/2020, which has dealt with the unconstitutionalities of the Katrugalos Act. We are gradually consolidating rules, benefits and pensions. We are starting a flagship task that is to codify insurance legislation, first administrative and then legislative. At the same time and despite the unavoidable delays caused by the pandemic, the EPCA is moving towards the radical treatment of the chronic problem of outstanding pensions through the gradual introduction of digital pensions. In terms of long-term targeting, the basic social security reform is the introduction of a capitalisation pillar into the public insurance system, by gradually transforming subsidiary insurance from distribution to capitalisation. This is a reform that is different from what we have known in recent years. No Memorandum or Loan Convention has imposed on us and it does not come as a pretext for justice decisions. It is a reform that provides for new entrants' pensions on the labour market. It manages insurance as a tool for prosperity and turns it into a lever for growth in the economy in the long term. It doesn't regulate the current ones, but it looks clearly in the future. In the text of this budget that you have received, you will not find a single euro committed to insurance reform in 2021. You'll see that in the 2022 budget. In 2021 we plan and vote. In 2022 we start the application. But this reform expresses the spirit and priorities of the budget and of the government that recommends it. We hope that, thanks to the vaccines, we are finally near the end of the pandemic nightmare. Now, here, to remember my previous and lasting quality of the teacher who is being taught, but also teaches, you will allow me to address some lessons that we can learn from the experience of the pandemic and link these to the insurance reform. The first lesson is that in pandemic we have experienced a new version of the concept of transgenic solidarity. Young people were confined to protecting older people. Workers are being tested financially to protect the distractors of work. But there is also the reverse version, that of intergenerational solidarity with young people, to the next generations of fewer workers who will be called upon to take care of the many pensioners. The burdens they will inherit on this new generation cannot be unbroken. The second lesson is that demographic ageing is here and we cannot do that we do not see its consequences, especially in the design of policies dealing with health and social security. The third lesson is that the role of the public sector is time-consumingly critical and decisive in the field of guaranteeing social benefits. The fourth lesson is about the fact that pandemic has clearly highlighted the risks arising from the excessive dependence of our economy on a particular sector, tourism. This course could be called the 'Different Risk Diversification'. The insurance reform that we are planning incorporates all these four lessons. We are introducing the capitalisation pillar into the public social security system, because today we need to take care of the adverse effects of the demographic problem on the insurance system. The capitalisation pillar works in solidarity with the next generations. In addition, the capitalisation pillar differentiates and strengthens the sources of income of future pensioners and acts as a lever for growth for the economy. When the time comes, we will analyse exhaustively both in society and in Parliament because our pursuit is to vote on this from as many parliamentary powers as possible. Because, in fact, we believe in the crucial role of the State, and we do not think that quality and excellence are incompatible with public policy, the new pillar of public capitalisation will work in transparency, evaluation, accountability and standard structures of administrative governance. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece has been twice as unfortunate as the pandemic. After a decade of deep economic recession, all international economic organizations and international houses predicted satisfactory growth in the medium term. Unfortunately, the pandemic has cut off this course. It's very likely that we still have a difficult semester in front of us. However, with the prudent management of the resources of the Recovery Fund and the Structural Funds and the unsatisfactory commitment to structural reforms, one of which I have just described, the country can hope for a return to high and sustainable economic growth, with a change in its production model, more jobs and higher incomes. The budget under discussion makes a decisive contribution in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u19	The first circle of speakers with Mr Stavros Kalogiannis from New Democracy opens up. Here, Mr. Kalogannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the state budget for 2021 at a time when the whole planet is being tested by the most serious health crisis in the last 100 years because of COVID -19. Health systems are suffocating, economies are surrounded, societies are pressed, weaknesses in the ideology of the industrial system are revealed. Furthermore, our country is facing Turkish provocation and migration flows. In this liquid environment we are discussing the budget, which sets realistic targets, promotes reforms, adapts to the needs that are changing every day. In particular, the budget is realistic and takes into account any new presumptions. What are these? First, the second large pandemic wave, second, the need for measures to address this new pandemic wave, but third and most importantly takes into account the downward revision of GDP by the Greek Statistical Authority for the period 2015-2018. The SYRIZA Government left EUR 5 billion less wealth in 2018. The budget is a development budget. The role of the Recovery Fund is important in this respect. In response to the economic shock caused by the pandemic, the European Union has responded rapidly, by adopting the ‘Next Generation EU’ programme of EUR 750 billion, to return to a sustainable and resilient recovery. Along with the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027, the European Union's total financial support to the Member States will total EUR 1.8 trillion. This package was ratified at the yesterday's summit, together with the very brave decision - which I welcome - to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030. In order to make best use of the funds corresponding to the country, the Government is preparing an integrated strategic plan, with priorities for attracting private investment, promoting innovation, digital transformation, upgrading infrastructure. The development dimension of the budget is reflected in the reductions in taxes and social security contributions, in its initiatives to strengthen liquidity in the real economy. These reductions will continue in 2021. The major thing, however, is that in 2021, just as it happened in 2020, there is not one additional tax either on business or on households. The Public Investment Programme for the budget of 2021 provides for funds of EUR 6.7 billion. In addition, the national part of the Ministry of Development has provided for funds to be financed by the Recovery Fund, amounting to EUR 2.6 billion. It is very important that the resources allocated to Greece by cohesion policy in the next seven years are EUR 19 billion, increased by 7% compared to the current programming period. The budget shall include structural changes. Indicatively, they finally proceed with projects of major importance to the country, such as the Hellenic Republic, and the "GEYRA" programme to support borrowings, established the microfinance framework. But it remains, Minister, to be activated to give great breath to the very small entrepreneurs, to the self-employed. In 2021, under more favourable conditions, structural changes will continue with a view to social cohesion. The budget is socially fair. The current budget has been substantially strengthened by the National Health System, it has supported the branches most affected by the pandemic, such as the focus, such as tourism, such as the primary sector. It has strengthened workers and unemployed. Very indicatively, I mention that the financial support for workers in the Ioannina Prefecture was EUR 23.4 million for the period March - November 2020. In addition to tackling the health crisis in 2021, the government's priorities are the stimulus of the economy, of course the Recovery Mechanism, the strengthening of the Armed Forces, support for vulnerable groups with allowances increased by EUR 600 million compared to 2020, the upgrading of education with university care and, of course, support for farmers. We also need to speed up the implementation of the NRP projects in the current programming period - already yesterday - the day before yesterday we had extremely positive results in this area - and, at the same time, to initiate procedures for the new period. Secondly, local urban planning projects must be promoted, at least in the capital cities of the regions and in which urban centres face acute urban problems. I propose that these studies cover all the municipal units of each municipality and not just some fragments, so that the design is single. Thirdly, major remaining infrastructure projects in Epirus, Western Greece, Crete, must be carried out by reforming the institutional framework for public procurement and simplifying it. I have tabled specific proposals to the co-legislative ministers with regard to digital reform in public works with a view to exploiting the new digital technologies. For example, I mention the three-dimensional modelling of construction information, the Internet of things, the provision of open data that promotes the circular economy. I would ask the Ministers to consider the proposal. It is perfectly realistic and practicable. Without a modern regulatory framework, without plans for cities, land-use-free, infrastructure-free, and investment attraction, we will not have a balanced regional development either. We have wasted valuable time in the five years 2015-2019. Ladies and gentlemen, with the responsibility of Prime Minister Mitsotakis and the government over the past year and a half, the country has gained confidence and credibility. Our gaze is constant in the future. We'll make it with plan, methodicity and hard work. I am voting in favour of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u21	The floor is now for the MEP SYRIZA of Atalo-Carnania Mr. George Bored.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the midst of an ongoing tragedy, in which the New Democracy MPs in the Rapid Move to read out their communication poems and insist on ignoring it, as if we were living in a country of the Lotus. As the previous dear Todoros Rousopoulos said, the New Democracy has a philosophy. Philosophy neoliberal and cynical, to which I shall refer below. It is a double misfortune in this country that in a pandemic it happens to be governed by a cynical neoliberal government and by a Prime Minister with a torque to the merciless. Do you know any other Prime Minister in a European state in the middle of a pandemic that has a torque towards the merciless? Mr Mitsotakis himself - go to YouTube - when he showed the finger to the citizens and young people, said that the mercilessness is irresponsible. Go check it out on the video. And indeed, this is an irresponsible Prime Minister and I would say that irresponsibility leads to risk. Because in order to distract people from the day-to-day tragedy, from its own mercilessness, does not hesitate to use mud, to drag political confrontation to do what? Someone said that sometimes the incapacitated one is less dangerous than the ability to do everything. And Mr. Mitsotakis has in his mind in the middle of a pandemic, to create a state of blurredness that will allow him, when we leave the pandemic, to try to revive the Greek people's vote before the revelation takes place. But there's going to be the revelation. Mr. Mitsotakis moved his mercilessness abroad, went yesterday, and what did he say after the summit? That sanctions are not an end in themselves. And what are sanctions anyway? It's not an end in itself. What is it? A diplomatic gaming in the hands of a careless Prime Minister? Mr Mitsotakis said after the summit that Europe, he says, is a great ocean, which is difficult to turn. And the question is: what role does Greece play in this ocean? The obedient Lostroyer? Mr. Mitsotakis, what part does he play in the ocean? The infamous traveler? Does a percentage of Greeks still insist on believing that it has placed national issues in the proper hands at such critical times? We go further to the philosophy that Mr Rousopoulos said, and which I insist is cynical and neoliberal. Indeed, Mr Russopoulou, your philosophy has led you to cut health expenditure. This philosophy led you there, the philosophy of cynical and neoliberal led you to lower the additional health costs in the midst of a pandemic, regardless of whether Mr. Petsas comes with various lists, and where Greece is around the last list of additional costs, now turns back and comes among the first. How long will the Greeks believe in this reversed reality? You are presenting a reality here, which is far from what the Greek citizen lives. I'll tell you this. You are budgeting revenues increased by taxation, because according to your estimates, these will result from growth. The question, however, is this: When did you, during 2020, fall into your forecasts to go back in and collect more than taxes? So what do you think, that the thousands of shops that are now closed, when they open, the first thing the shopkeepers will do is go to taxiers and insurance funds to pay off? Where are they gonna get the money to do that? Five million VAT has to do with tax debts and the insurance funds, without putting the banks in. And you're budgeted to have some more revenues, obviously from the runners. After the click away, small and medium-sized enterprises will be hit and you know very well that this will happen. In fact, do you know what kind of click away is? I'm not that good in English, Mr. Chakalotos isn't here. It's pick away, that's kicking out of the market. It will celebrate the place "luketta", and you will describe heaven as you do every night with the announcements. Now, the tragedy and the number of deaths do you know what it is? ‘Stamping’. That's how you announce it and go further. I would like to say, however, that the Civic Opposition is here and has been here during 2020 to make proposals to you, regardless of whether you have heard them, proposals, not toxic opposition like the one you have made. And imagine what you would do today if SYRIZA were in the government and we had this number of losses. Imagine it. But you've put it all on some mighty men. This makes you feel inappropriate and arrogant. But if someone scans this arrogance, it will be the mature decision of the Greek people. The Civic Opposition is here to transform desperation into hope and this will be done with a programmatic counter-attack, confrontation programming with you, and the Greek people will be called at the end to choose, compare and choose on the basis of not the fantasy you cultivate through propaganda, but on the basis of what lives daily and on the basis of the vision and the hope offered by the opposition, having the experience of a governance and valuing not only what was done well but also as mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u23	Mrs. Marietta Yannaku has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I hope I sound like a mask. A year ago, when drafting national budgets, no national Parliament could have imagined the danger of pandemic and the dimensions of the recession. In the course of the 2020 events, we have learned a great deal, at crisis management level, of responding to public services and of exploiting financial instruments. This experience will be decisive for 2021, because we will certainly be called not just to prevent the worst in the economy, but to cure the real consequences of pandemic on incomes, employment, productivity and the economy in general. The 2020-2021 budget marks, in my opinion, a safe economic rescue plan, but it is almost certain that we should not leave it this way, but we should adapt to the real developments that are coming. It is probably unknown when we will come back to normal economic conditions. Unknown are still which sectors and which percentage of enterprises are now sustainable, with a direct impact on jobs. The economic behaviour of the citizens is also unknown. Will they consume more and what categories of costs? Will they take more jobs away from work and what does that mean for social rights and the indirect consequences of the operation of the business and life of the city? In these questions there are no safe assessments at international level. No democratic state today has the ability to fully control the economy with a central planning. The government is right to align policy with what is said and what is planned by the European partners. Developments are good with the guarantee of the 750 billion of the Reconstruction and Resilience Fund and the 1.1 trillion of the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027. However, not all of us start from the same starting point. The countries with high surpluses and high competitiveness have had much greater opportunities to grant state aid to their businesses in the light of the justified derogation from the relevant European Union regulations, without at the same time jeopardising fiscal derailment or debt growth. Furthermore, these countries have a strong political and administrative system to make full use of all possibilities of European funding. In Greece we must be aware of the limited possibilities that still exist. These are the long-term consequences of delaying structural changes in the economy and the effective modernisation of the state's institutional functioning, the stable high public debt and the impossibility of efficient State expenditure management, which have also caused the crisis. At the same time, the long-term hardship despite the reforms that have taken place has resulted in delays, which are visible at every level: the loss of 25% of Gross Domestic Product in employment and in incomes of citizens, in the infrastructures of the state, in the operation of sectors of the economy. I would therefore like to draw the attention of the National Representation to the undeniable need for everyone to take care of their own responsibility in order to raise as an extraordinary and major issue the real strengthening of the political-administrative system. The government was right to take the institutional initiatives to better coordinate governmental work, as well as to speed up e-government in many areas. The next year should mark the essential change in the functioning of the State itself, in the modulation of the government agenda, in decision-making, in the institutions, in the financial instruments, in the implementation of policies, in the continuous monitoring of the results and their evaluation. The specifications for the financing of the Reconstruction Fund refer precisely to such a comprehensive review of state operation. The financial staff have prepared an excellent plan in accordance with the relevant specifications in good time. The report by the committee drawing up the new development plan for the Greek economy is confusing proposals, which we are all discussing, but which must now be at the heart of the implementation framework. Successful implementation of reforms means not only a good government function. This exists and is a success in such a critical period. The country has a government that is firmly committed to producing policy results according to European policy. However, there are other factors that play an equally important role. Public administration, organised interests, business classes have their own share of responsibility for political development and implementation of the country's reconstruction objective. We are all judged and there will be demands for everyone. Civilian personnel cannot be the only scapegoat. I would also like to comment on the escape clause decided by the European Union institutions in relation to the country budget. This clause ensures flexibility so that countries can cope with the difficulties of pandemic and return to the balance of production fabric and ensure its development. The government has so far made targeted moves in support of the economy in order to protect those who are really affected and to save sectors of the economy. The effort must be in the direction of the sustainable fiscal situation and the avoidance of debt relapse. This means avoiding reasonable auctions. In our democracy we are now well aware that the people's saviors do not come from the demagogues' ranks, but from those who in their work served the country's public interest and development effort. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Georgios Kamine has the floor from the Change Movement. Come on, Mr. Kamin. Step is ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the annual recession will even overcome the 2011 one, which was the worst performance of the Greek economy since the 2009 crisis. The Change Movement had predicted that the recession will reach two-digit figures, as we had in time pointed out that the government's final figures will be far from the overestimates of the preliminary draft. And of course we can't put it all in the pandemic. The government's policy had serious failures before it. There was no growth in the economy during the first two quarters of its government until the first lockdown was imposed on 23 March. I fail, of course, to mention the pre-election fantasies that the bulldozers would enter the Greek two weeks after the government took over. The worrying thing today is that the government's unreliability in its forecasts continues in the budget. Where is the optimism for the rapid absorption of the recovery fund? Where does the spectacular increase in the productivity of enterprises arise? How is it possible to discount the increase in the consumption costs of society when household incomes are under pressure, businesses are closed and debts are constantly increasing? Or are you relying on the prediction that tax revenues in 2021 will increase by 8.1% when it is historically proven that the increase in tax revenues is always lacking in GDP growth? The plan you brought us is not only unreliable, it is socially unfair and may prove fatal for small and medium-sized enterprises. The Government has at its disposal a total of EUR 37 billion of cash. These are amounts resulting from the overtaxation of SYRIZA governments, from the increase in net borrowing after 2018 and from the ESM loan. At the same time, however, the Deputy Governor of the Bank of Greece informs us that banks' deposits to its bank amount to about EUR 21 billion, while the mandatory assets they must hold there do not exceed EUR 2 billion. The conclusion is that market credits are significantly smaller than available resources, but also those that reach the market are distributed in terms of gross inequality. Let's see the figures for the first nine months of 2020. What are we gonna see? That over a million free professionals, farmers and individual businesses only got 93 million and about twenty thousand small and medium-sized enterprises took 1.3 billion euros. We are talking cumulatively about 88% of private sector employment. But the remaining 12% in the country's approximately three hundred large businesses, over 250 employees, went almost three times the amount: 3.7 billion. [[At this point the IV Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the presidential office.]] However, injustice is also clearly seen in the distribution of tax burdens, leading to the ratio of indirect - direct taxes from the historical low of 1.45 of 2014, at the highest since then, in line with the forecasts for 2021. For all ministries, other than the Ministry of National Defence, reduced costs are provided for. I must say here that last year's vote in favour of the Movement of Change of Expenditure for the Ministry of National Defence is also justified. With this data it is estimated that at the end of 2020 the country's debt will have been set at 208,9% as a percentage of GDP. Debt higher than that is only Japan. Therefore, from all this use of the Recovery Fund - whenever they come - sustainable development requires a fiscal policy that does not set high targets for primary surpluses. Here, of course, there must be a tough deal with the lenders. Unfortunately, however, we are not talking about a government that convinces us that when it is in Brussels it is able to claim and achieve something serious for the country. I am accelerating some of the budget, some of the elements and some of the figures concerning my area of responsibility, the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum. Let's get the Fire Academy. The amount allocated amounts to a magical figure of 34,000 euros, when in the debate under Law 4662 the government promised us to upgrade the training of fire extinguishers. Less than EUR 25,000 for the National Crisis Management Coordination Centre. For the serious subsidization of prisons, which we have repeatedly pointed out, we do not see anything specific in the budget. The Ministry of Immigration and Asylum's Public Investment Programme is too low and not enough for the initiatives already announced for the new projects. I see the State Secretary for Social Security and the Minister for Immigration and Asylum present here. The largest chapter that the country has at the moment, like any country, is human capital. What have they predicted about the integration of refugees in our country, they have been protected internationally and are currently sitting? The Deputy Minister had said before that, once there is high unemployment among the Greeks, we cannot talk about the employability of the refugees. That's about what I'd figured out. If it is not true, we would like to hear what is predicted in this respect at the same time that - for example - I have in mind personally in northern Greece that at present, while there is enormous demand for hands in the agricultural sector, nonetheless the Greeks for one reason or another are not going. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. As far as the integration of refugees is concerned and hence their employability is concerned, so far Mr Metarakis has done absolutely nothing. The only thing he is constantly talking about is that the flows are falling, but for those in the country and the government's policy will remain below the base. And that, of course, comes from deep-rooted ideological prejudices.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Kamin, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u28	I shall conclude, Mr President. Unfortunately, as with the first generation refugees, these people will also be forced to incorporate themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Cappatos from New Democracy has the floor. Here comes Mr. Apostle from SYRIZA. Please, if you are unable to place yourself within the prescribed time, you will have thirty seconds longer. Don't go too far.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the best and most useful way to read the state budget and what exactly it is to understand the environment in which it is being drawn up. The framework, namely, where social conditions, economic data, institutional functioning and, of course, the European and international contexts are taken into account when formulating public policy. When, in fact, the legislator is faced with a shocking change in these circumstances, it is of particular importance that he study the content of the budget compared with the one he preceded. The health crisis in COVID -19 is that important treaty that allows us, I would say, to compare the legislative environment today with that of last year. The first concerned the budgetary gap that the SYRIZA - ANEL government has inherited and which we were called upon to cover. The second was linked to the challenge for our country to arm itself in institutional terms so that the ten-year fiscal adventure that we have experienced has finally passed. Finally, the third parameter was the opportunity to manage the home rationally, shaping the conditions for the development of a sound economic policy. Given the confidence in the Greek economy and the speeding up of the reform efforts we have made, the COVID crisis -19 found us institutionally ready to cope with conditions unprecedented in modern history. 2020 proved to be very different from what we expected to face. The global health challenge, for which we were called upon to work together at European and international level, set new priorities in the public debate, as well as in the economy, social cohesion and business activity, were at the heart of a risk that we were forced by definition to tackle. The protection of vulnerable groups and the support of a series of sectors such as tourism, focus, trade and free trade have been high on our agenda. Many times, as much as this does not like a portion of our political system, the figures say much about the real extent of our intervention since the start of the crisis. In particular, therefore, EUR 24 billion has been released for 2020 and EUR 7.5 billion is planned for the year 2021. This will only support the national economy, social cohesion and the activity of Greek citizens, who are so affected by this unprecedented crisis. I now invite you to consider the size of the intervention we are discussing, when in the case of Kefalonia and Ithaca, the dramatic effects of the Mediterranean cyclone 'Janus' which hit our islands at the beginning of the autumn have been added. How do we respond to this double challenge? It is enough, I think, for the time economy to refer to the main sources of support for our prefecture with considerable amounts worth mentioning. From TEPIX II and the Guarantee Fund Kefalonia and Ithaca were strengthened with 17,474,000 euros. With the special purpose compensation we support the workers in the tourism sector with the amount of EUR 6,191,000. The extremely successful measure of the repayable advance supported by small and medium-sized enterprises and the free traders has given rise to an amount of aid for Kefalonia and Ithaca amounting to EUR 43 597 000. For the cyclone "Januan" the government pays ten days after the destruction that hit our islands 8,000 in business and 5,000 per housing, money that every day enters the pockets of the affected inhabitants of the islands. In conclusion, the compensation together with support measures during the pandemic shows us the intervention of a total of EUR 85 million to date. It is an intervention that practically supports our islands, their citizens and so many problems that the dual crisis has highlighted. If our 2020 priority was an expansionary fiscal policy supported by the National Health System, it supports vulnerable borrowers and it provides liquidity to businesses, what should it concern us about the year in which it comes? The main objective is to make use of the European resources of the recovery and resilience mechanism, to support vulnerable social groups, as well as to strengthen health with additional costs of equipment, infrastructure and recruitment in the National Health System. Let me point out here the need in the Kefalonia Prefecture for the intensive care unit, for which the Werner donation ten years ago has guaranteed the necessary logistical resources. They are already at the disposal of the Kefalonia Hospital and it is up to us to attract the necessary medical staff to work. Finally, our commitment to any new tax is also being made in the budget of 2021. In this context, we are called upon to speed up the dismantling programme, while at the same time moving towards a series of new tax reductions. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time of last year I have closed my suggestion with the reference to our readiness to implement our election commitments, with the hard work that we had before us and the necessary knowledge we had to turn into a policy that was applied. The health conditions that we face led us to review many of our priorities, shifting our plan towards dealing with the pandemic wounds. Nevertheless, the central guidelines, the compass and our conviction in the powers of this place remain unchanged. Together we will succeed, because we have the plan, we have the will, but also the willingness to implement a fair budget, in response to the current challenges that pandemic has brought to our economy, society and everyday life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Cappato. Mr. Apostleus has the floor from SYRIZA. The next is Mrs Makre from New Democracy, and then Mr Marin from the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, all the budgets, and especially the one of 2021, should propose man and the figures should follow him, serve him, relieve him, support him. We're living a tragedy. Our fellow citizens are lost every day, they are immersed in mourning, despair and insecurity. Everything just reminiscent of the landscape in a deep fog with an unpredictable exit. And this is due both to the failure of your Government to manage the pandemic and its effects on the economy and to the extra extra budgetary measures that you will take. Land, ladies and gentlemen, of New Democracy in the hard reality of 2021, a reality which will have an unpleasant impact on the economic situation of households and businesses. I will focus on a few forecasts of the budget in critical areas for the Greek society. First of all, you chose human lives, society as a whole, today and tomorrow of our people to compress it on the tracker of the Pissaridis findings. The budgetary guidelines show that the problems you have created in the field of work and social life will be maintained in 2021. Your tax policy is implemented with great commitment to reducing taxation on corporate profits and natural persons of high income, business and income, while maintaining tax privileges and scandalous tax regimes for shipowners, banks and others, without at the same time providing for any substantial measures to combat tax evasion and the concealment of income through offshore companies in tax havens. For example, the application of the inflow-out system to fuel smuggling remains a request. In the area of labour and social affairs, funds are significantly reduced, from 24.7 million in 2020 to 22.7 million in 2021, which means that the burdens of pandemic and, more generally, the crisis will be borne mainly by the labour force. Also, socially-oriented ministries expenditures have obviously shrinked. It is characteristic that the OAED on the expenditure side is projected to have a reduction of EUR 1 billion in relation to 2020. In health it seems that the government has not understood or does not want to understand that the pandemic has made it necessary to strengthen our country's public health. Unfortunately, however, the budget does not show any intention of investing to enable society to meet its needs in a universal and equitable manner. I will particularly dwell on another space that did not find the state next to it in the difficult period our country is experiencing. We are already in the second wave of the pandemic and the second quarantine and the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, on the one hand, announces manually and inclusive calls for applications from those who have seen their incomes zero for months and, on the other, leaves many people outside aid, the majority of rural people involved in agriculture. I am referring specifically to two categories, ovine and caprine animals and olive farmers living in border and demographicly sensitive areas. It's been blocked over 50%. Unjustly and without any reasonable explanation more than a hundred thousand sheep and goats. You have ignored the hundreds of thousands of micro-retired farmers, heterogeneous workers, new entrant farmers, all those involved in olive cultivation, because they are guaranteed an additional income. All those involved in this production activity do not do it to get rich. They're just doing it to survive in their villages. There was and is the possibility of covering this aid from the State budget. Why not use part of the EUR 540 million which, thanks to our efforts as SYRIZA government, has been returned to our country by the fines imposed on our own governments because of the mismanagement of Community aid? The farmers are the specific money. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, your policy is evolving into a disastrous mixture of administrative incompetence, social analgesia and political delinquency. This is reflected in all budgetary parameters. The lack of social sensitivity, the arrogance, the inability to understand the difficult position of our fellow citizens is the truth behind what you are called ruthless. And it was the unprecedented inhuman management of your pandemic by your government that revealed in the clearest way your true person. For us a red line in the budget we are discussing today is man. Unfortunately, for you it is still the same gain, which is why we are voting against.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Apostle. Mrs Makrei has the floor from New Democracy. Next is Mr Marinos from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it has been a very difficult exercise for the 2021 budget to be drawn up and drafted by the government's financial staff, perhaps because of the high degree of uncertainty due to the conditions, complexity and dynamics of its volatility, but also the disproportionate difficulty of predicting the cost of development and productive policies with permanentity. The reasons are obvious. Health systems are internationally pressed. The economies are surrounded by the worst global recession since the end of World War II. Society is tested and placed daily on many levels, even in the most vital, essential and existential human needs, such as fellowship and sociality. While all of this is horizontal, but also common variables in a global problem, that of dealing with the health crisis, which unfortunately remains unknown, our country has, moreover, to assess variables that the other euro area countries do not have. Challenges such as those of geostrategic and geopolitical tensions, as well as migratory flows, as well as the unforeseen situations caused by the outbreak of natural phenomena, are serious components in the course of budgetary forecasts. Indicatively, the costs of national defence armaments programmes, which are expected to amount to EUR 2.5 billion in 2021, increased by EUR 2 billion compared to 2020, while the costs of migration flows are projected to amount to EUR 564 million, of which EUR 314 million are covered by the regular budget. The objectives of the budget, despite these adverse circumstances, remain committed and consistent with the policies undertaken by Mr Mitsotakis and his Government to implement, in order to strengthen citizens' expectations, to recover or, more rightly, to maintain the confidence of the international environment, to eliminate the financial excesses, to form a new, dynamic, smart and developmental framework, to develop the implementation of investment projects, to promote important reforms and initiatives. In this direction, there is a substantial and supportive role for the Recovery Fund. The productive use of its resources, resulting from the already submitted coherent and integrated National Strategic Action Plan, will be an accelerated step towards strengthening entrepreneurship, strengthening employment and social cohesion, supporting the region, upgrading of infrastructure, green development and digital transformation, always and firmly in synergy with other European Union financial instruments. At the same time, in order to strengthen a friendly, development and investment environment, the budget incorporates tax reductions and insurance contributions, such as HICP, income tax on legal persons, insurance contributions, reforms income tax on individuals and suspends VAT on buildings. Controlling and limiting the pandemic with the economy alive and revolved and the society is certainly the most pressing and serious challenge in the budget. The vigilance and necessity of adapting public health policies require an increase in regular costs other than krone, to more than EUR 4.126 million in 2021, the provision of EUR 3 billion as a special reserve, the increase in the budget for regular costs of hospitals and primary health care units and EUR 131 million for the remuneration of emergency health personnel, necessary to deal with the coronary. As far as my prefecture, Magnesia Law, from the tools to strengthen the liquidity of the real economy, substantial funds have been made available. In particular, EUR 67,7 million was allocated to four hundred ten enterprises up to 5 December 2020 from TEPIX II, EUR 81 million to nine thousand six hundred five taxpayers from the repayable advance, EUR 10,5 million to nine thousand nineteen undertakings as a special purpose compensation, EUR 17,6 million for job suspensions for the ‘CONTRIB’ programme and tourism. Also, in the areas of the Municipality of Almyros and the Municipality of Volos, which were affected by "Janus", forty-three enterprises and private individuals have already received an advance of 20% from the Ministry of Finance, amounting to EUR 165,431 from, and the Ministry of Interior has been granted a total of EUR 2,5 million for the prevention and management of damage, as well as for social protection. Immediately, disbursement and integration, but also the full payment of funds, will continue at the same speed and diligence as possible for the maximum relief of workers, businesses and citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 budget is realistic, and this is confirmed by the consent given by European and international organisations. It is differentiated from previous in terms of its polycritical and insecure variables, but it also presents a distinct originality. His originality lies in his very high chance of derogating without the slightest responsibility of his authors. They therefore deserve warm congratulations to the Minister of Finance, Mr Stavoura, and his colleagues, who, despite their adversity, carried out an orderly, meticulous, careful and coordinated drafting of the budget. Their work demonstrates that the financial staff are disgusting to society, fully perceives the market and its difficulties and responds quickly, decisively and reassuringly when conditions require it. It's not ethering. On the contrary, not only does the future look for the country's strongest possible strength in an internationalised environment, but also ensures that stocks are in place in a possible national need. It is all our duty, therefore, to vote for him for a rapid return to dynamic growth and normality, but also for the safety of the next generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u35	Mr Marinos from the Communist Party of Greece followed by Mr Stamenitis from New Democracy. Here, Mr Marino, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. The state budget is a classic, anti-liberal, part of the policy that loads the capitalist crisis in the working class, the bio-parent farmers and self-employed, serves the interests of business groups and their geostrategic upgrade. That also marks foreign policy, to which we shall refer. The Government of New Democracy and the other parties of the Euro-Atlantic arc are trying to pass on to the people a fairy tale that the European Union will intervene in the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean on the side of Cyprus and Greece, impose sanctions and prevent the claims of the Turkish bourgeoisie. This is a conscious rape of the truth. This has proved to be at the last summit of the European Union, in which the reference to false sanctions for Turkish drilling in the exclusive Economic Zone of Cyprus was repeated, and the debate on March with the fait accompli claimed that there would be consultation with the Biden Government. The government and other parties, which have created expectations, have been irreparablely exposed. Where is the European Union that you praise? The occupation in Cyprus is perpetuated. Following the so-called sanctions on two, three persons of the Turkish state energy company in 2019, Turkish drilling continued in the Cypriot EEZ, opened the enclosed city of Famagusta, while the ‘ORUC REIS’ carried out investigations in Kastelorizo, near the territorial waters, for eighty two days. Who are you kidding? The government positions on the sanctions of the European Union in Turkey, but also the arms embargo in Germany, replicate the same problems. Why? Because the European Union is facing Turkey as a strategic partner. It maintains with its high level of economic and military relations, haggles the new customs union and the refugee. With your support, gentlemen of the government, your allies are trying to win Turkey in the Western camp to get it out of Russia's influence. And this is a field of great trade that will also be manifested in the process of so-called exploratory contacts. Germany, Italy and Spain sell to the neighbouring country military equipment of billions of euros, invest, their banks have put large loans on the Turkish market and are exposed. The Americans in recent years have sold Turkey $4 billion and more than billion dollars to strengthen NATO and Secretary-General Stolttenberg constantly reiterates that Turkey is a valuable ally. Turkey is a strong importer of US liquefied natural gas and the design of the two states aims to increase trade to USD 100 billion. This is how the imperialist alliances and the reality itself have shaken down the misleading allegations of the Government, the Change Movement and SYRIZA, presenting them as the guarantors of peace and sovereign rights. A vicious circle is recycled. Competition between the Greek and Turkish bourgeoisie for geostrategic upgrading in the region and with the backs of the United States, NATO and the European Union escalate Turkish aggression in the wider region, challenging borders and sovereign rights. Within this course, the collection of the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean and the division of Cyprus is being prepared for the benefit of the energy colleges. All governments are responsible for converting Greece into a war brigade. The government is preparing to extend the agreement on US bases, and the United States is throwing millions of dollars into strengthening the killing mechanism in Souda. The people are sceptical and all governments are giving more than 4 billion euros a year for NATO's equipment and general needs. The capitalist crisis and pandemic are exacerbating the contradictions. Imperialist competition gives rise to new wars and the government supports the dangerous project "NATO 2030", which promotes Russia's curiosity and the intensity of confrontation with China, which promotes their own interests. The agreements with Israel, which murders the Palestinian people, are challenging. We ask the government what the Greek military forces are doing in Mali, Africa, and Patriot missiles in Saudi Arabia. Why are you hiding that the United Arab Emirates Agreement on Mutual Defense Assistance and the Saudi Arabia agreement can even get Greece into a war against Iran in the Persian Gulf? You put our people in great adventures, in great danger. You serve a system that has rotted and becomes ever more aggressive. Your policy in all areas is against our people and the Communist Party of Greece calls on him not to show any confidence in the government and other parties, to strengthen his struggle to overthrow this barbarism to pass the wealth produced by workers in their own hands, to close the foundations, to free the country from NATO and the European Union and to build mutually beneficial relations on the basis of the interests of the peoples of the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Marino. Mr Stamenitis has the floor from New Democracy and Mr Sarakiotis follows from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that this year's debate on the budget of 2021 is taking place in a climate of uncertainty and intense instability, traits due to the emergence of an unprecedented health crisis, which cut off the upward course that had taken our economy in the second half of 2019. Undoubtedly, 2020 has been a very difficult year. The presence of the coronary in our lives changed the data and faced us with new, extremely difficult challenges. On the one hand, he gave birth to the need for immediate reaction and for solutions in many areas at the same time, and on the other, he forces us to predict to prevent emergency events and situations, as until the vaccine appears, nothing is solid. In this context, therefore, the framework of the government's financial staff is tabling a budget, characterised by realism and moderate optimism, while at the same time being socially just, proactive and clearly oriented towards the development and progress of the economy. It is socially fair because it provides for EUR 7.5 billion in support for 2021, such as aid to firms affected and workers in the private sector, a reduction of three percentage points in insurance contributions to private sector employees, and a suspension of a special solidarity contribution, measures - protection for society, for businesses, the world of work and the free trade. Overall for 2020 and 2021 the economic and social support measures together reach 31.4 billion euros, extraordinarily for other seasons, but they were the ones that kept the recession for 2020 below what it could be and will allow the Greek economy to see a growth of 4.8% in 2021. Of course, SYRIZA or does not see - only 3, 4,5 billion in 2020 - while in 2021 he sees nothing. Sure, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you have fought with the truth. The budget for the first year of 2021 provides for a large 3 billion-dollar financial pillow, for where it needs to be given to the real economy, health, for support in the first half of 2021, depending on the development of the pandemic. It is oriented towards growth and economic progress, because it favours the implementation of reforms and planning to attract investment, incorporates tax reductions and favours liquidity enhancement, which will contribute decisively to the return of the economy to rapid growth. Finally, it is realistic why it sets targets in the context of the potential of the economy. But what are the factors that have allowed us today, in the midst of pandemic and difficult conditions, to have such a budget, factors that help to be optimistic? Firstly, the consistency in the implementation of reforms and major sectors. Greece, with the appearance of the coronary, did not stop being a transforming country. She didn't stop throwing over the weights that kept her stationary. We have consistently moved forward in the reform work on the environment, planning and energy, education and livestock sector. Investments in Greek went ahead. Private debt issues have been dealt with and a number of other legislative initiatives have been taken, which all of the opposition has been against, while we are critical - and we are critical - of insisting that parliamentary and governmental work should be limited solely to the legalisation of pandemic needs. Fortunately, we have not listened to you and so we have optimisticly seen our future. Our second weapon is the confidence that our country receives from international markets, even in a pandemic period. Our country was upgraded from Moody's house. We borrowed a low-interest record before pandemic and during. These are all the results of the important work done in the second half of 2019, but also in 2020. Our third weapon is the absorption of European funds and the management of resources from the Recovery Fund, a personal success of the Prime Minister. Greece is now in first place to absorb European funds, while it has submitted a good and comprehensive plan for the Recovery Fund, as officials of the Commission say. We also hear the criticism from the opposition,'retroactive' - they say - 'the predictions that will add burdens to Greek citizens'. No unrealistic and no extra burden to the Greeks, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition! Leave the miserable opposition, therefore, it does not help anyone, neither society nor you themselves. Let us actually look at a few examples of what happened in society and the citizens for support for the pandemic. I will speak of Pella, the region in which I have the honour of being elected. Measure Refundable Phase 1 to 4: Seven thousand eight hundred enterprises received a total of 36.100,000 euros, an average of approximately 4,700 euros. Special purpose allowance for Pella's businesses: 5.730,000 euros. Special-purpose allowances: The amount was EUR 8,800,000. In addition to these measures, we should include the measures taken to support our primary sector and producers: Losses due to coronary losses in asparagus, olives, potatoes, lambfries, flowers, and the next time aid is expected to be paid to greenhouse products and wine grapes. Also, in the health sector we had over a hundred and fifty subsistences of subsidiary and permanent health workers in the hospitals in Pella, which was added to eight hundred eighty - eighty - employees. At the same time, EUR 11 million in the budget of the two hospitals have already been added EUR 4 million and another EUR 1,600 000 is expected. Ladies and gentlemen, it is certain that if there were no occurrence of the coronary, we would be discussing today on a completely different basis. But sometimes in politics, the effective response to difficulties and the right way of reacting to critical conditions is of greater value than the achievement of a success in times of normality. The Government of the New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis give the assurance to the Greek people that we can make it difficult and that is why they enjoy the confidence of the Greek people. The 2021 budget gives prospects, offers real hope and allows us to be optimistic about tomorrow, which is why I am voting in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u39	Next, Mr. Sarakiotis from SYRIZA and then Mr. Kavvadas from New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. "Responsibility and seriousness characterise the way the budget was drawn up," we heard from the Ministers and MPs of the New Democracy. I will overlook the fact that the very same things we had heard a month ago about the draft submitted and revised in due course. In studying him, however, no one sees anything but total lack of contact with reality and Greek society. The terms of the Stability Pact have been relaxed, but you have misinterpreted it - it seems - and this relaxation has taken a step further, making your estate and integrating it into every manifestation of your policy. Is it a relaxation that goes hand in hand with provocativeness, as it is possible to interpret that, in the midst of a pandemic, you are not only reducing public health expenditure, but are you also predicting increased revenues from citizens' taxation? Plus EUR 3.6 billion, it is estimated that you will receive 2021. Is that really the case, Minister? Do you have any contact with reality? That's not just our opinion. You're being called by the producer bodies, GSEBEE yesterday. Government decisions lead to the definitive loss of turnover for retailers. The survival of thousands of small and medium-sized commercial enterprises is left to its fate. Thessaloniki Chamber of Commerce: "Government's decisions are a blow to the world of the market and to small and medium-sized enterprises and favour large business groups and multinationals". They may be unfair to you, because they may not know that last week you voted for a new tax on diesel, which will certainly contribute to the launching of growth. Who, then, will be able to pay - we are all wondering - these amounts? You will say that in the midst of a murder pandemic you have legislated to increase students in school halls. For the money, are we talking about taxes now? And he's right. But this lack of contact with reality is not something that has appeared today, it is your chronic illness. As long as you remember your assessments months ago. I will not go into the first forecasts you had made for the small, anemic development, because then the government's financial staff may have been affected by the "lightened" statement by the Minister of Tourism that the pandemic will have a positive impact on Greek tourism. Personal selection of Mr Mitsotakis, Minister of Tourism, to manage the sector of the economy, which contributes as much to the GDP of the country as anyone else. So how do you question him? Evidently, with your predictions, you have subscribed to such a successful assessment. I will, however, stand in your constant reports of a rapid recovery after the recession, reminding you that no international organization has anticipated a recovery of the recession rate, as for months Mr Mitsotakis has promised in his attempt to cultivate hope for better days that would come, not to mention the harsh reality that the Greek people have experienced and deceived him. In 10.5% the recession, 4.8% of growth, according to the budget you are tabling. Since spring, then, when the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance talked about a recession of around 4%, the OECD estimated the recession at 9.8% in May, the Commission estimated it at 9.7% and at the same time the IMF estimated it at 10%. Everyone fell into it except for you. It is obvious that all international organisations have a better understanding of what is happening in the Greek economy than you. Whether you are completely incapable of knowing or deceiving the entire Greek people for months. So now I really understand it sincerely and I, after so many years of being so fond of the New Democracy officials, do love the troika, because they admire it, because they respect it. Because they know much better what happens to the Greek economy than you. Maybe in the economic indicators you didn't do so well. You are, however, excellent in engaging in the work of your predecessors, as you cannot leave it with your own policies. A characteristic example is the Minister of Development with the expenditure on research and technology, who without having anything else to show hindrances the dynamics developed by SYRIZA's previous governance and celebrated that these reached 1.27% of GDP for 2019, forgetting the levels at which they were for many years impoverished, forgetting 0.84% of 2014, forgetting that for the first time expenditure exceeded 1% in 2017, which was not by chance, but was part of the SYRIZA government's development planning. It is highly hypocritical, but also late to be interested in the scientific community, as the Minister knows better than anyone that they have been instructed in research centres for a long time to keep the budgets at 2018 levels. Besides, your plans for the complete degradation of research are clearly reflected in the Pissaridis report, projects that turn the scientific community to 2014 and to a usage approach. But the scientific world does not only experience the contempt of the Minister of Development, but also that of the Minister of Health, and it is typical of how he manages the pandemic, but also of the economy the way you handled the "Emphatic Action" months ago. It was announced by the Prime Minister, who responsiblely appointed the Minister for Development, that the ten largest research centres in the country were involved, and what then? Letters to the Prime Minister, letters to the Minister of Health, letters to the Minister of Development that you do not include them in the management of the pandemic. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASIOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] A characteristic example is that in response to the Minister of Development a few days ago it is stated that the three largest research centres in the country can carry out eight thousand diagnostic tests, that is, on the day, and only one thousand three hundred six. It is the most characteristic of the way you manage both sectors, the health crisis and the economic crisis. So fake your interest in both scientists and researchers, as were the applause you have given, as were the congratulations you have given. It is the young people who go to the squares and not Parnitha, it is the Thessalonians with their idiosyncrasies, it is the small and medium-sized enterprises that are zombies who cannot understand how great the click away is and how much it will help them, it is the doctors who exaggerate themselves and squeeze a coronary on their shift, and it is the SYRIZA that is the SYRIZA who fortunately you have not listened to and you do not throw money for the SYRIZA, it is always the SYRIZA that is the fault of all the others except you, the predictable and invincible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u41	Mr Athanasios Kavada has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 state budget is being voted on in the unprecedented conditions of the pandemic world. It is a budget of responsibility and truth with a specific target and forecasts characterised by realism and moderation. The criticism of the Officerial Response for these forecasts lacks a legal basis, especially when SYRIZA submitted four budgets, which all four fell out of its development forecasts. And it was normal to fall out, since growth and overtaxation don't go together. Development with the twenty-nine new taxes imposed by the SYRIZA government is not possible. The budget of 2021 not only includes no new tax, but the government, which is firmly geared to reducing tax burden, continues to act as tax relief measures. It suspends the contribution of solidarity to private sector employees, to free professionals and farmers. It reduces by three points the insurance contributions of private sector employees. It maintains the reduced rate of 13% in transport, in the tourist package, but also in the focus drinks until April 30th, 2021. Tax reductions have been a firm and unnegotiable option for this government since the first day of its term of office. I would remind you of the reduction in HPAI by 22%, the reduction in the initial tax rate from 22% to 9% for low incomes, the increase in the tax rate for each child, the reduction in the tax rate for businesses from 28% to 24% and the dividend tax from 10% to 5%. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has been an unprecedented situation which has adversely affected the economy. Priority at this juncture was to support businesses and workers, what they really need. This support was expressed by measures and interventions amounting to EUR 31,5 billion. The EUR 24 billion has already been activated and implemented as measures in 2020, while in the first months of 2021 EUR 7.5 billion support measures, measures and interventions taken and activated without undermining market confidence in the Greek economy, which is confirmed by the raising of capital from the markets at the lowest historical interest rate. Through the repayable advance, the loans to TEIX II and the Guarantee Fund were given a "hot" of money on the EUR 12 billion market in 2020 to enterprises. In my law, in Lefkada, 32 million euros were granted to date. They have been supported by special purpose allowances for professionals and workers. Unemployment benefits have been extended to support unemployed, and an additional EUR 322 million will be allocated to support 100 thousands of jobs. The "GEFYRA" programme, which will support 280m euros of borrowers affected by the financial consequences of the pandemic, has been triggered. Tax and insurance liabilities have been transferred with a view to joining a new framework of arrangements to facilitate the payment of their obligations. It was reduced and in some cases the advance tax was zeroed. Rents for businesses, workers and students decreased by 40%. In the exceptional circumstances, we have proposed exceptional support measures that will continue for as long as needed in the next few months and until we return to normality by finding the vaccine. That is why it is important that the government commits itself to expanding the repayable advance with the fifth and sixth cycles in 2021. In the 2021 budget, EUR 800 million for the public health system is expressed in practice. But our arsenal is literally strengthened on the other big front that opened in 2020 with Turkish provocation, as the budget of the Ministry of Defence provides for EUR 2.5 billion for the new armaments programme to enhance the deterrent capacity of the Armed Forces. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's planning, which is embodied in the budget, focuses on the development process. Writing samples were also given in the previous period by changing the framework for strategic investments that enabled them to be integrated into them and to gain favourable investment prospects, such as marina in the Vlychos of Lefkada. A substantial sample of writing was also an increase in the absorption of the NRP's resources, which is now moving to 55%, while in July 2019 it was 29%. In the next half of 2021, however, the new ESDP is being activated and the first resources of the Recovery Fund will come to our country. The return to normality with the advent of the vaccine and European resources will feed the recovery of the economy from the second quarter of 2021. The Pissaridis project, however the demonsizing some are, will be a growth compass in the coming years with high-payed jobs, with high-value products and services of high added value and competitiveness and, above all, with rational and productive use of European resources. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are going through the last steps to return to normality. Those who fantasize about memorials and within introductory'regulated' are out of reality. The vast majority of Greek citizens support the effort of the government, it has a full sense and perception of the reality, but also of the difficulties we have been called upon to face. The credibility, the measurable result and the relationship of trust with the citizens are the ones that make the difference. The Government of New Democracy, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis by voting on the budget has the confidence of Parliament. The most important thing, however, is that it also has the support of society. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 budget is a development budget, a pro-investing, a reformist, realistic, flexible and socially fair, which is why I urge you to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Kavada. Mrs Athanasios has the floor from the Greek Solution and immediately thereafter Mr Karagunis from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss the 2021 budget in a climate of uncertainty and fear of tomorrow, fear of economic impoverishment and of health collapse, for which the government is solely responsible. You don't open the retail shops, while you closed us for more than a month to open, it's supposedly, the market on Christmas and move our economy. Northern Greece has been closed since the end of October in essence. How will this whole world live? How will he keep his family in the next few months? With what eyes to look at their children and how much longer to hold their smile? The debts will be increased to a huge extent with your own responsibility alone. Retail trade throughout Germany is open with restrictions. Here, why not? Are you afraid of the collapse of the National Health System, which you have not shielded and left it at the mercy of the pandemic? And instead, you financed "AEGEAN" and you continue to share millions of euros in state channels to cheer you up. Shame and shame. And as if not all of this were enough, while throughout Europe the churches remain open, the New Democracy forbids even the sanctuary of water that had never been suspended in history, neither the plague nor the Turkish occupation nor the Nazi occupation. With regard to the health budget, I have to point out the following: EUR 4.829,000,000 in 2020, set out in the respective Constitutional Process in November 2019 when there was no coronary virus, in November 2020 on coronary viruses, in 2021, EUR 4.257,000, i.e. EUR 572 million less for one year with the scaling-up of the third and harder wave of the coronary, while these interventions for the coronary in 2020 were EUR 523 million and in 2021 only EUR 131 million. We cannot discuss a budget which reduces public health expenditure in the middle of a coronary, while health is the number one area we need to invest in. And then we ask citizens to be patient. Also, why don't the coronary tests be prescribed? The WTO points out that public health expenditure continues to remain stuck in 2020 at the third-world level of 5% of GDP, when Europe's average is 7.5% of GDP. With such public spending every day, the system will get worse. It is because of this that private health expenditure is constantly increasing to 3.5% of GDP. In other words, we are putting the hand in the pocket more and more in the pocket than any European citizen. At the same time, the quality of the services provided is downgraded. Deaths from hospital infections, suffering of patients in TIs, radzas, lack of TIs, health centers closed testify to collapse. Every year, the staff are shortened, instead of increasing. With the figures of the state itself - Ministry of Interior - the staff in hospitals shortened the years of the memorials by twenty - five thousand. In 2018-2019 we have three thousand five hundred departures and zero recruitments. The notice of two thousand three hundred posts announced by the Minister of Health is a drop in the ocean. The procedure for the notice by the AACC has not yet begun. Therefore, for a year that will make the contest complete, hospitals will operate with even less staff. In the budget assessment of 2021 the expenditure on payroll is reduced due to pensions. Where's the money to raise the staff? Twelve thousand contractors, subsidiary, former contractors, OAEDs, etc., work in hospitals, cover fixed and fixed needs and should be permanentised. As for the doctors of the RIS who have been suffocated with nurses all the burden of dealing with the pandemic and are already suffering from COVID -19, so many doctors of all specialties, those who are proven by epidemiological studies work in dangerous and unhealthy work and face a lot of illnesses and occupational risks, so far refuse to include them in heavy and unhealthy professions, despite the Prime Minister's announcement of joining them until June 30, 2020, which is only in words. It's a great disappointment. Not to mention, of course, the humiliating wages received by doctors and other health workers who fight day - night to save human lives! According to the budget, the government's gentlemen reserve an increase of EUR 74 million by transferring from the ordinary budget and EUR 2 million by the Public Investment Programme. However, they forgot about the performance of the special Christmas allowance and preferred to stay on the applause. With this, we expect our doctors, our children, from abroad! Transfers to the EEA from the regular budget are planned from EUR 608 million in 2020 to EUR 300 million in 2021 or, otherwise, reduced by 50.6%. Transfers from the ordinary budget for the Primary Health Care are cut from EUR 249 million this year to EUR 152 million in 2021, a 39% reduction over a year. For hospitals, transfers from the regular budget from EUR 1,236 billion in 2020, are expected to reach EUR 1,310 billion in 2021. It's a mortal increase! All 70 million euros! In the preliminary draft, the expenditure of the four thousand hirings in the health sector announced by the Prime Minister has not been entered in the draft budget. Despite the fact that the government's budget expects to have an input of EUR 5.5 billion from the European Union's Development Fund in 2021 - if of course the individual programmes are adopted, and despite the fact that public health expenditure in Greece remains far below the European average - it does not seem in the budget that there is no plan to shield the ERC. With regard to the recruitment of new permanent health officials, Mr. Skylakakis has said that there can be no permanent recruitment to health, as there is no budgetary freedom for permanent measures in the budget, and this also applies this year and 2021. The government, in short, degrades the National Health System in the middle of a coronary pandemic, which will return to it in a few months. Don't deceive yourself! With the fake polls you're cheating on, the people already know everything! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Athanasios. Kostas Karagkounis from New Democracy now has the floor, and then Mr. Syrizas will also be prepared. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to stay on the retaliations that were heard yesterday on the first day of the debate and a little - very much - have been repeated today. I want to show more conclusions from this budget at this very difficult juncture of the crisis and pandemic. To be more precise, I would like to show three more general political conclusions. The first is that Greece in the face of the crisis is not alone. This budget also reflects the European Union's decision to support, I would say, very decisively, the Member States of the European Union. So the strengthening of the economy in these circumstances of crisis is because, for Greece, the agreed budgetary targets have been relaxed, because Europe has thrown all its arsenal into a coordinated response to the sudden recession and because the European Central Bank continues to pursue and pursue an expansionary monetary policy. I think it has not escaped one's attention that we can borrow from the interest-rate markets that we really would have been unthinkable to borrow some time ago. They have now come to be negative on interest rates. Because, in fact, I read yesterday a post by Mr Tsakalotou, who made a perilous illustration of what would happen if SYRIZA were government today, I will reverse this thought that developed and I will say this: Let us imagine what would happen if SYRIZA were to rule - just so that we do not forget it, it came out of the political abundance of 3% and managed to become a government with anti-Europeanism - if this inappropriate course had actually been implemented, what would happen in the Greek economy in a period of global economic crisis as a result of an unexpected negative exogenousity, such as this pandemic that actually happens once in a hundred years! So - and many times I have said so, too, from New Democracy - our prolongation and every political body that has ruled can obviously make mistakes, but our difference is that, in the strategies and great choices of the country, our party has made the right decisions and the truth is that this budget has reminded us of this. The second political conclusion is that the government's budget and economic policy, in the midst of this global and absolutely surprising economic crisis, has shown who is the truly prologue and developmentist and who is not. I say this because the SYRIZA's permanent political anguish was - and it is, obviously - to show us that we are the party of austerity, we are the party of cuts, of budgetary rigour, but also a party with ideological wrestling against the state, including, of course, the National Health System, as it often develops. The reality of dealing with this crisis comes and shows exactly the opposite, as this budget certainly shows. For that is right, Mr Stavros and the other finance ministers have answered you with the information he has provided. What kind of austerity are we, when these huge interventions are made to boost demand? They are an austerity of five so far, I would say, very generous programs - the rest of them are coming - back of an advance? Are draconian arrangements for protecting workers against dismissal? Are the suspensions of a huge volume of tax obligations, including VAT, austerity? Are direct aids austerity to all those who have been suspended? Are the compulsory reductions in rents for employees austerity, while compensation for the hirers? Are the retroactive repayments due to pensioners and their heirs austerity? Finally, are the emergency aid programmes of the unemployed austerity austerity? Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, we are not, of course, apologise to you, as a New Democracy, for depriving you of this account, perhaps the only account you have. We do not, however, act with ideological baffles, nor in class, as you did with overtaxation and the insurance Katrugalos, when you literally hijacked the middle class without any interest at all. We, therefore, do not do such class enemies. For us, every Greek, regardless of income and social status, it is the same. That is what we did in this difficult and unprecedented economic crisis. We have strengthened the economy and active demand in general, we have kept the market standing, we have not allowed unemployment to increase, and we have helped income all citizens and, of course, we are, of course, the so-called resurrected neoliberals, who are creating a new health system, a new RS, which, when the crisis is over, will be a reserve, a RES, that is, where access to intensive care units will not be a sad privilege for those who have access to political power. Unfortunately, we have experienced all this, ladies and gentlemen, that is, the most unfortunate, not to mention a terrible memory of old-fashionedism. In other words, this budget proves what each Greek citizen knows and experienced, namely that this government stood next to the Greek and Greek economy at this very difficult time of the crisis and that will continue to do when this crisis is over. After all, this explains why this government is strengthening its political influence and, respectively, what - which actually does global originality - in such circumstances, opposition is retreating, rather than being publicly supported. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to make it quickly, Mr President, and I shall now conclude with the third conclusion, because the budget refers to 2021 and reminds everyone what we, as government, always have in mind, that we are living in a moment of emergency, which, when it is over, will restore what the Greek people have chosen New Democracy in the 2019 elections. The Greek people elected New Democracy because they wanted to put an end to the stone years of overtaxation, the creative insurance, the pillaging of the middle class and the destruction of small entrepreneurship. The Greek people have given the New Democracy the mandate to make the country a normal and normal country means a country that believes in itself and hopes for something better.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u47	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u48	We may not, therefore, have yet become a normal country, because all the countries of Europe, because of pandemic, are not normal countries. But that does not mean that this government has forgotten its mandate. For as successful as the management of the crisis is on our part, our desire, our anxiety, our poorness is to end this and to be able to carry out our mandate in full. We have already started to legislate on tax evasion, on lower income taxes, on a smaller contribution of solidarity and, in particular, on the support of international investment interest. But the parentheses of the pandemic and much more, its successful approach not only rests us, not only does it not relax us, but rather strengthens us the desire to respond to what has been the cause of the great political change that took place in 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Nikolaos SYRIZA from SYRIZA has the floor and then Mrs. Maria Head from New Democracy prepares.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with something that is addressed to the Minister, although he is now leaving what I see. He concluded yesterday's speech with the words 'you do not have the asset in SYRIZA for the economy'. Mr Stavoura, a little modest, because you left in 2014 with 200 million state funds and we could pay salaries and pensions until the end of February 2015. You brought the country into bankruptcy in 2010, after a long period of governance along with your ally then, the PASOK. So we don't have to say masturbations. We left EUR 37 billion cash available in the country and with these EUR 37 billion you can make policy today. Because if they were not there and there were 200 million euros, I would say that you could not give not a returnee, but not half a returnee, which, in any case, must be given by the funds of the state, so that businesses could stand up in this pandemic. Of course, pandemic is an emergency situation for the whole planet. But you use pandemic for all sorts of diseases. And can I tell you something? You said that since the second half of 2019, recovery of the country's economy began. I shall therefore present to you in the Minutes a report from the 'NAYTTERIC' of 5 December 2020, which has exactly the chart from 2012 until today what the GDP growth per quarter is. You will see very well that while the second quarter of 2019 we were upward, since the third quarter of 2019, we have been in recession. So, in the Minutes, I quote from the approved newspaper 'NAYTERVORIC', which is certainly not at all SYRIZA and invokes ELSTAT. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Symblene, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With regard to the current situation, your forecasts have fallen out at all levels and of course we are the worst of all countries in the third quarter of 2020, and the worst of all is that between the second and third quarters there is an increase of 2.3%, the worst of all countries in the European Union, even this 'Third Spain of the Podemos', as Mrs Vulture likes to say, which Spain has 16.7% differentiation between the second and third quarters. And now you say 10.5% of the nine-month rate - because you like it, Mr Stakoura, to tell us about the third quarter and the nine-month rate - the rate of nine months is 8.5%, indeed. But in the fourth quarter we will see a recession very large and because of Lockdown, obviously. So we're going to get over 10%, maybe we'll get more, see, here we are. From there on, however, you have an over-optimistic budget and I would say, at the end of the day, a false budget, because you estimate from three factors to increase revenue. First, tax revenue. You know very well that, in addition to deferred taxes and insurance contributions, we have 2.5 billion people in debt all over this period. So how are you going to collect, in 2021, from those who don't? Oak if you're a owl than you don't have. This is where this saying works. The second issue is the Recovery Fund. From the Recovery Fund, at best, and with the most optimistic forecasts, you will receive 3 billion in the second half of 2021, if everything goes well. The third is that investments, of which you expect growth at a rate of 23.2%, are an ex-realist figure. Which year did we get to go under normal conditions from one year to 23.2%? And because you are talking about investment, even from the privatizations that you are cutting, we have received this year 2.2 million, with the expectation of collecting 42 more by the end of the year. We'll see. So the whole situation, as set out for 2021, is a very bad situation where you, instead of supporting health, have 570 million minus. Of course we are all waiting for the vaccine to be recovered, but from there on, the vaccine is not a solution for all diseases, because the vaccine is currently under test and we will see if it really can work properly within 2021. From that point on, you have a reduction in the Ministry of Interior, the OTAs, municipalities and regions have less than 220 million. You have less than 32 million in the Ministry of Tourism, 13 million in the Ministry of Culture, which is invisible in the world, and in the Ministry of Shipping - and I wish the Minister, Mr Placiotakis, by the way - that we have less than 46 million euros, where the figure for the transport equivalent is invisible, a reduction in the funds for the barren lines. If we count on the zero increase you are planning for the costs of the National Health System, for equipment and supplies, then you understand where you are targeting. And if you see in your proposals for the Recovery Fund, thirty-four proposals, for health, there is only the issue of digital transformation and the electronic identity of patients. That's your proposal. Why? Why, in essence, do you want to faithfully serve the Pissaridis project, which wants a less social state, wants to dismantle labour relations, it wants private insurance as an adjunct, and that is exactly the ideology that you are advocating? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. On the other hand, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance is working on a project that will really strengthen the social state, health, education and welfare, for which you also have reduced costs. It will also strengthen the agri-food sector as the main pillar of the development process. It will strengthen research and innovation. It will really strengthen the social majority, with an energy self-sufficiency and savings programme and a spatial and urban planning, which will not be for the few private interests, but for the large social majority. With these thoughts we are voting against the budget. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mrs Maria - Alexandra Kefala from New Democracy now has the floor, and then I will give the floor to Mr Ploris, since I do not see Mr Constantopoulos here, which is his turn. Mrs. Head, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the vote and the debate on the state budget is a top parliamentary procedure, through which each government leaves its mark. In its pages, its perspective of the country's finances, economic policy and public money management is reflected. It shows us where the Greek taxpayers' money is going. His reflection in society is evident and citizens become the recipients of their policies pursued and their consequences. About a year ago we voted on the 2020 budget. It was the footprint of our policy, the one that put Greece in a growth orbit with a glance in the future. It was a budget that incorporated the reforms of the New Democracy and Mr.Mitsotakis, as he presented them to the Greek people, who trusted him with the country's governance. Who could imagine the follow-up, who could imagine what we're going to experience and continue to experience? Nobody. 2020 is a landmark year, a year of station in modern Greek and global history. We are experiencing the most serious health crisis in the past 100 years, a pandemic the planet has ever known. An enemy, extremely dangerous and invisible, came to try and tranquilize societies and a global economy. Because the expansion of the health crisis in the economies and societies of all the countries of the world are undeniable. Since the end of World War II, this year the worst global recession has occurred. All the forecasts, all the objectives set, all the states, were revised to keep pace with reality. The pandemic showed us its strength. Economic activity was frozen in a number of professional sectors, significantly limited to others, and few were those not affected. This unknown enemy has set and put governments and peoples before their responsibilities, between serious dilemmas, in front of contributors, to manage the crisis with soundness and seriousness, quickly but not desecrated. Despite the encouraging messages that come from the front of vaccine production, uncertainty remains, as we are faced with a dynamic situation that is constantly changing. In this particular case, at the moment, our country has the chance to have at its wheel a Prime Minister worthy of circumstances, a Prime Minister, who from the first moment did not hesitate to put man as a priority and the protection of life. Knowing very well the impact on the economy, our structural decisions have been clear from the outset. Some values are unnegotiable, with their crowns the invaluable value of life. In such a context, ladies and gentlemen, without accurately knowing the end of this health war, without accurately knowing when global economic activity will return to normality and enter a developmental path, the 2020 budget, which we are now called upon to vote, has been drawn up, a budget that is inextricably integrated with the health situation and the reality, which all citizens and all governments are trying to manage. Our country, immediately after the economic crisis in recent years, was faced with this unprecedented pandemic when it began to recover the lost territory of the five-year-old SYRIZA - ANEL. Fortunately, as a state, we left nothing to chance. With a lot of work and constant efforts we keep society up. However, the effects of the health crisis cannot affect budgetary forecasts. The dynamic situation in which we operate is reflected in the changes in forecasts regarding the draft budget a month ago, the result of the second and most powerful waves of the pandemic which is affecting our country and all Europe and America. We must not overlook that all economies are particularly vulnerable to the economic consequences of this great health crisis. However, our goal for 2021 is clear. Back to growth rationally, consistently and quickly, with policies and practices that will rekindle the economy and give the necessary impetus. We recognise the difficulties and take into account that the situation in at least the first quarter of 2021 will be difficult. It is a reality that we cannot and must not overlook. Of course, all the exceptional support measures and the resources we have secured as a country from the European Union will play an important role in the recovery of our economy. Let me remind the House and the Greek people who see us that the total amount of measures to deal with the financial consequences of the pandemic is expected to reach EUR 31.4 billion with EUR 7.5 million in 2021. The next year is the one that will lead us to stable and long-term growth through the planned reforms that are to be implemented, which are friendly to new investments that will in turn lead to a fall in unemployment and an increase in the incomes of citizens and social well-being. I will not go into details and figures on the budget, since they have been sufficiently captured and analysed by our rapporteurs and ministers who have so far been placed. I will only stand on two points. Firstly, we are expected to absorb by means of the recovery and resilience mechanism amounting to 19.3 billion as an unauthorised subsidy. Secondly, with the most conservative calculations, we expect our economy to grow at a rate of 4.8% of GDP next year. And thirdly, unemployment is projected to improve by one percentage point compared with 2020. From there on, we are setting up a special reserve of three billion to ensure that state actions are adapted to the development of the health crisis in the first few months of 2021. We support the health sector with regular spending on this ministry to raise to EUR 4,12 billion in 2021. In 2021 there will be no new additional tax on households and businesses, on the contrary, we reduce insurance contributions and motivate businesses to open new jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, if I had to characterise this year's budget with two words, I would say that this is a budget that is rational, fair, the foundation for the post-CIVID era, with the clear illusion of the government's position, a budget that embraces Greek society and understands the reality, a budget that has been tabled in a very difficult environment, but has a look at in the future, a budget that I invite you all to vote in favour of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mrs Head and especially for keeping time. Mr. Constantopoulos, are you ready or may I give the floor to Mr. Plearis? What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u54	To Mr. Floris, and then me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u55	Mr Ploris has the floor from New Democracy. Then Mr Constantopoulos will speak and then Mrs Gerovasili will speak from SYRIZA. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, we really are talking about perhaps under the most difficult conditions for the 2021 budget since 2020 is ending with an unprecedented phenomenon throughout the world, with the pandemic that plagues all humanity and has actually changed our way of life in the health track and the part of the economy. That is why all states are revising targets and trying to rely on the next day of 2021. I heard before SYRIZA MPs refer to the anticipation of the vaccine. Indeed, the vaccine can largely lead us to normality. Often, SYRIZA colleagues often like to mention what would happen if it were the SYRIZA government. This is the best argument you can say every time to give points to the New Democracy, because in this question we do not feel the need to respond, we let the Greek people compare themselves. You have the need to answer. It has been said that we are all waiting for the vaccine, and that is why you need to respond with that if SYRIZA continued to rule with the ANELs, Mr. Mavraanis would be Minister, the choice of Mr. Tsipras to be in ministerial seats and to tell us now that the vaccine will change our DNA and will enter mechanisms that will look at our personal data. The responsibility lies with the former Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, because this man had been entrusted with a portfolio. The Greek people understand that when we have irresponsible and populist governments, like the SYRIZA - ANEL governments, there are many problems for humanity. We are now coming to the budget that the Greek Government brings for 2021 in a very difficult context, where we must be in a balance between public health, the life of our fellow people and the economy. The Greek Government is working on this balance primarily on public health to have the least possible consequences and to implement its programme. Because this year with the whole problem in the health sector has not deprived us of the opportunity to implement the part of the programme that the Greek people have voted for, namely, to reduce the tax rate to 9% from 22%, a measure which is clearly aimed at low incomes, to rationalise the insurance system again, so that there is no dependence on the income of freelance professionals and self-employed persons to pay tax and social contributions more than 60% of their income, in addition to the possibility given by reducing HPAI and, respectively, a reduction in the tax on legal persons from 28% to 24% and the distribution of dividends from 10% to 5%. In the crisis we have come with a programme that is very realistic. Again, if we listened to the opposition, we would have exhausted all the state's potential to support workers and businesses in the first phase of the pandemic. That is what you said at the time, while we said it was a dynamic phenomenon, and we need to see how it would go to deal with all the problems. We have fully supported the workers who were suspended and paid money. Especially the low-wages would take the money they would get if they worked. We have supported businesses with repayable advances, as well as natural persons carrying out business, as well as with the part of the rents paid by the State, with 25% reduction in the amounts paid in advance, with a suspension of tax and insurance payments in order to be paid in a way that is realistic in the course of the course and with a series of measures. Therefore, in this whole process no one was left alone. Ladies and gentlemen, this was at a time when the country was also called upon to manage the sanitary aspect of the issue. The national health system we received was in a very difficult situation, from the worst situations in Europe. The Department of Health within six months doubled the IF beds. Right now from the five hundred seventy beds we received, we have over a thousand tracheal beds. In December - as we speak - our fellow citizen has not been found who did not get his treatment. We also hired staff and the National Health System works against the obsessions you had with the private sector, because even there you considered the private sector an enemy. Can't you see that, together with the private sector, the public achieves things? The private sector has entered the game and the health system and gives it beds. You were talking about ordering IF beds in March we didn't need them, that is to say, paying empty IF beds, because, apart from the JRC - which thinks the order is done without paying the state - we all agree on it. He agrees with the Constitution. Yesterday Mr Pafilis said "the war when you take it, do you compensate?" Yes, even in war, because the law of order exists before World War II. Even in war when you demand something you have to compensate for, because that's how the property framework works. So, did you say we order at a time when we would pay empty beds and come to the Ministry and with a design in the very difficult piece that he had to manage, of Thessaloniki and managed to put the private IF beds on, when? When it really took them when we needed it. All our fellow citizens are being treated. 2021 is a critical year, ladies and gentlemen, because from now on and with the money that comes, as Kostas Karagkounis said, which has been supported seriously by the European Union, the financial staff will be invited to see the country's new production model. With regulations that exist for productive reconstruction, for example, in the pharmaceutical sector with a strong Greek pharmaceutical industry, we come to offset the clawback with investments, which are being made, because the third quarter, which had all these problems, was the quarter that shows the full dependence of the country on tourism. So we are able with this realistic, rationalised budget, which we will vote on, to lay the foundations for the country's new productive model so that, when growth comes, we have a better overall economy in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Pleari. Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos has the floor from the Change Movement and, as I said before, Mrs Olga Gerovasilis follows. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, second state budget of the Government of New Democracy. This year's budget for 2021 is being discussed in Parliament. I would say that it is being discussed in times of crisis, as sanitary as it is social and economic. Here, ladies and gentlemen, real facts must be said. The annual recession is estimated at -10.5%, which, if confirmed, will be worse than in 1960. This, of course, should be held. The OECD talks about growth in 2021 at +0.9%, and the government of course supports 4.8%. Take your conclusions. Here I would remind you that in July the OECD predicted a downturn of 8% for Greece, and indeed - what? - verified for 2020. It is therefore appropriate for the government to reassess the facts and, in particular, to see the indicators relating to it and to society. Ladies and gentlemen, the main feature of the 2021 budget is that inequalities are returning, and I would say that they are returning in the wildest and most unexpected way. I will tell you about this two examples. The first example concerns direct and indirect taxes in relation to the market and society. Unjust - I would say - tax burden allocation is something that began in the SYRIZA government and reached the ratio of direct and indirect taxes to its historically low of about 1.15% in 2015 and 2020 not exceeding 1.5%. This, gentlemen of the government, hold it. In particular, it appears that the State expects in 2021 to collect taxes from legal persons around EUR 830 million and from the repayment of insurance and tax obligations, which had been suspended for 2020, other EUR 224 million. In other words, this is where the word 'nick if you get it instead of you have it.' Another example of this is retail trade: yesterday's governmental decision on closed shops, Minister, is a cynical way of eliminating small commercial enterprises. We are talking here about two hundred and seventy thousand enterprises that sustain over sixty thousand jobs. So there was the choice here to open with dates and restrictions based on their squares. What's the result? All stores that do not have an electronic store, a digital system or digital channels to experience the most savage and unfair competition. Here, Minister, you choose only the big players in the market to stay in the game. We already see the cigarette being transferred from small and medium-sized business to large businesses. The choice of this government was also reflected in the unequal distribution of the liquidity given to the private sector, where three hundred large businesses, representing just 12% of total employment, took the share of the lion, about 3.7 billion euros. So with your responsibility, Minister, a two-speed market has already been formed. Another example is tele-education. We are a month with schools closed and tele-education becoming an accelerator of inequality. Houses have turned into school classes. Without proper infrastructure and with many problems of connectivity and equipment, where each household must actually have what? Two and three laptops for class or teleworking. Gentlemen of the government, what was needed was an increase in school infrastructure and teachers recruitment, which was not done. So wrong planning and wrong programming. With regard to higher education, I would like to say that it has already been two months since the beginning of the winter semester and the vast majority of students have not received their writings, especially academics. We expect an answer from the Minister of Education. Ladies and gentlemen, as Head of Division of Culture and Sport, I would like to stress the following: the Government could act on the Relief Fund, a fund that will act as an ancillary support fund in difficult situations. Our Greek culture and cultural heritage are a comparative advantage of the country and it is an attractive proposal to the unscrupulous citizens of the earth to visit Greece. Therefore, Minister, supporting the cultural area should be and should be a priority, horizontal for all sectors, as well as for related professions. Also, Minister, the space of sport and its people are tested in the worst way. Besides, the contribution of sport to the country's GDP has always been positive. They therefore also need reference and brave financial support. In fact, within the vortex of Greek football, we expect the Memorandum of Cooperation and Co-operation signed by the Government of Mr.Mitsotakis in February 2020 with FIFA and UEFA to come to Parliament. We should also be given the holistic study requested by the government for the future of Greek football. Ladies and gentlemen, humanity is experiencing historic times. After pandemic, the world will not be as we know it today. The technology is all over the place, focusing on the network of 5G, which promises many possibilities. The world of work and the social state are, I would say, subjected to universal transformation. We already see European Union countries putting the issue of reducing working time to combat unemployment. We already see in the Greek market that teleworking is being applied and the platform economy is being structured in a wide range of professionals such as, for example, deliberation and commerce, that is to say, new flexible, uncertain forms of work. A class of workers who experience the state of instability on a daily basis is created both to their work and to their social position. This, ladies and gentlemen, poses many dangers even to the primary sector. The pandemic has put forward new challenges, on the one hand, there is the challenge of supporting producers and, on the other, the introduction of new technologies, the verticalisation of production, the treatment of the ageing of the workforce in the primary sector. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is the state to prepare for what is coming. Perhaps we should implement a new Marshall plan for the reconstruction of the economy after the pandemic. This goal to serve needs a plan and the government has not understood it. Ladies and gentlemen, last year we were accused of not voting for the code on the expenditure of the Ministry of Defence. Here I would like to see the truth restored, since lying has close legs, to say that what we voted against last year is a reduction in expenditure on the equipment and defence expenditure of the Ministry of National Defence. I return to the budget and close my position, in a budget without real cost, which will soon come to many parts of it for reform, perhaps in the first quarter of 2021. Finally, on the issue of Greek-Turkish and the question of sanctions decided yesterday, I would like to say: let Europe first understand that we Greeks, Greece, are Europe's locusts, guarding its borders. We know that very well. Turkey, ladies and gentlemen, does not want statements. It wants tough, painful and immediate sanctions. The Makron doctrine shows the way, I'd say. Let the twenty-seven leaders of Europe follow it before it is too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u59	And I thank Mr. Constantopoulos. Mrs Olga Gerovali has the floor from SYRIZA. Then Mr. Kallianos from New Democracy, Mr. Synthrakis from the Communist Party of Greece and then the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Frangoyannis, will speak. Mrs. Gerovali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's debate on the budget, we obviously see the draft government for 2021. We realise that with a 10.5% recession, public debt to 200% of GDP, the New Democracy Government will lead the country to a decade of bankruptcy for the second time. Was it fatal to get here? The answer I think is clear. Oh, no. Without health support, in the real economy, in the workers, in the business, the government left the country at its luck. The integrated "We stay upright I" and "We stay upright II" programmes that we proposed were the backwards in the recession, especially since there were in the funds the 37 billion euros and, of course, the country outside memoranda and outside the European Union. Sadly, however, the government acted ideologically and even rationally. The ideological sign of the New Democracy was clear. The executives have long stated, from time to time, that the Greek economy should not be based on small and medium-sized enterprises, but on larger aggregates, hence the click away etc. Of course the neoliberal neck - we all understood - feeds from the pandemic, see the Pissaridis plan. The previous budget was already against the social state with political tensions of social inequalities. For example, since last year you have abolished the social dividend to three and a half million beneficiaries, you have reduced by hundreds of millions of privileged allowances, family, social, etc. and the 2021 budget finds the country to be plagued by the pandemic with 3,472 dead from a coronary until yesterday and by a mortal rate claiming the world first. In your view, of course, it is the citizens' fault or 'their character', as Mr Georgiadis said about the dramatic development in Thessaloniki. "For unemployment it is the citizens who are to blame because they are not well-written." At the same time, we are in the European Union's last positions on health expenditure, champions in the recession with 11.7 in the third quarter of 2020. It makes sense, since in the European Union and other governments are neoliberal, but they have not declared either careless or reassured, but have acted forward. You for 2021 anticipate EUR 600 million less in health, and in the midst of a tragedy with a hundred dead a day, you do not even anticipate the recruitment of health. You are not conscious, ladies and gentlemen, but are not conscious. The National Health System is falling apart. If this lasted until the end is due to the support provided by SYRIZA to the National Health System with the nineteen and a half thousand sanitaries, with an increase in the budget, despite the limitations of the memoranda. In addition, despite the needs of education, there are no funds for recruitment, for technical equipment, to cope with even now with the telecommunications fiasco. There is, of course, an increase in the budget, the expected tax collection by the bankrupt Greeks. The 2021 budget is not just a fake one, it is also challenging, as is the allegedly adequacy and responsibility of the government that was hidden behind the individual responsibility of the citizens. I would remind you that the New Democracy of Responsibility, the government of excellence. That's fake, of course. You have brought a government of reforming dangerous, pleasurable and not excellent, without degrees or false degrees, where necessary, and a huge number of posters. You left the citizens unarmed at the time their lives were threatened. This government was not able to map the pandemic with mass tests, with massive tests. You have uncontrollably opened the tourism that, in your view, did not affect the transmission of the coronary, as neither the public transport nor the opening of the schools. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I think the Pecha list might have hurt you. We did believe that you were inexperienced and continue. After the Petsa list, the Petsa bill comes for the redistribution of television licenses and the landscape of advertising. And you managed to make the first major strike by the NSA for the days of reassurance and surprise, Mr. Mitsotakis, in favour of maintaining the law of SYRIZA for the television licenses of the well-known Pappa law. You've brought the tops down. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is in panic. The Mycenes were burned, the Acropolis was flooded, antiquities migrated for fifty years. The infamous Prime Minister is walking to Parnitha. Similarly, it has reached the point of pointless Brussels. "Signature has the journey and say good-bye to the sanctions you lose." I'm not saying, Cavaphic the approach. Of course, how inappropriate Brussels was indeed to hear Turkey's statements, which, after the European Council last year, says it can finally claim its fairness, since the common sense prevailed in the European Union. I believe, however, that the government is beginning to understand the problem and the deadlock, and also the discontent among the citizens and it responds with the well-known old recipe: violence and repression, horror and fighting. Thousands of policemen line up against five, ten civilians. And all this in the name of health protection to avoid conspiracy. I think you've seen police officers conspiring in the streets, the police department, the police cars. I conclude that if all this is done for the health of the citizens, it is certainly not done for the health of the police. As far as police finances are concerned, we see a 25 million euro cut in the budget for the provision of police workers and of course nothing for their training. I'm doing a parentheses, we've had a 200% increase in the payroll of the transferees at the Ministry of Civil Protection after 2019. It becomes clear that you mean police consumables, untrained and of course against society. Besides, solve the supposedly tied hands of the police. They weren't tied up with the cops. The police have done their job by rules that you're abolishing. You know, in police, there are democratic people in the majority of over fifty thousand workers. The associations have already been reluctant - they have declared this - police officers with the political choices and mandates of the government. To close, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the foundations of society are trembling. The country has been tested by your new ideas, gentlemen of the government, coming from the distant past. The government's development model bankrupt the country and led us to a collapse of public health. They need policies that give hope, fair growth with a strong effective social state, respect for labour rights, investment in technologies and innovation. These policies can only bring them into a progressive government. I'm closing with one sentence: Prime Minister, you said Santa Claus in his bag would have vaccines. Evidently there will be no first home auction suspensions, as you had promised.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u61	Mr Ioannis Callianos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. I would venture, ladies and gentlemen, to say that the 2021 budget is a war budget, as it is presented in the midst of an extremely difficult and unprecedented treaty that simulates this war, a war that our generation is called upon to give and defeat against an enemy invisible, which quickly crosses the borders, which affects everyone horizontally. There is no doubt that the international uncertainty caused by the pandemic is unprecedented, plunging the whole planet into an extremely difficult situation, which we have not experienced as humanity for many generations. New challenges are being created, which we will be called upon to face over time, drawing up the outline of a new reality that is emerging. This pandemic hits all the economies, which, compared to the past, are infinitely more interlinked, as is the world in which we live, while the global economic recession that we are facing today is the most deeply recorded recession since 1945. It was heard by many colleagues in their previous speeches. The high degree of continued uncertainty surrounding COVID -19 makes any forecasts extremely difficult and requires a continuous adaptation to the new data, which occurs. So the debate that has been taking place these days on the budget is necessarily taking place in this very international context, which we must take into account, so that we can stand to the extent that circumstances require, far from populism. That is why I would ask SYRIZA's colleagues to have a fertile political dialogue, a fertile political criticism and not to engage in an inexpensive and particularly harmful place for micro-policy. So we call on you, even now, to leave the path of populism and move on to that of responsibility and pragmatism, just as your institutional role requires and the moments require. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 budget is a budget based on the successful economic policies of the last year, which sets realistic targets and promotes reforms which, as the Minister has said, are distinguished from economic efficiency and social recompense, by adapting to the new data generated by the development of the health crisis itself. In other words, it is a budget that has a twofold objective, on the one hand, to overcome this crisis by keeping society up and on the other, to lay the necessary foundations to win the bet of growth. This budget can be submitted at a time that is internationally dominated by uncertainty, but it is absolutely consistent with the new economic policy, which New Democracy has committed and implemented since the first day of governance. I am thinking of what Mrs Gerovali said earlier - which I appreciate - that we did not do anything. 'You did not predict health recruitment', you said, Mrs Gerovali, before. As long as I remind you, seven thousand people have found new jobs as doctors and nurses, the wages have doubled for doctors who volunteered to help in northern Greece and there will be other recruitments that the government will judge in the coming months. This new economic policy has already produced fruit, and I think that this budget is a budget that brings growth gradually, brings better days for the place and actually brings the conditions that we need so that the economy can resurrect. Because, you know, we're walking on a rope, we're walking on a thread. Kyriakos Mitsotakis right now and the Ministerial Council are heading for a thread. If you fall on one side, you're being sanitaryly destroyed. If you fall on the other side, you're being financially ruined. So, just think how hard it is to walk on this thread, not fall because of the vibrations, neither on the one hand nor on the other, and to be able to develop your economy, raise your economy, bring better days for the place, not to have that situation in the hospitals that you would have had if you had opened everything from the first moment, to be able to save as many people as possible, because even one to leave life is a blow to all of us. But you should know that this bet - and I speak to you as a mathematician - is very difficult. There are too many variables in an equation we are called upon to solve, so that better days can come for the place. Well, it's not simple. That is why I say that we should not plunder, so I say we should not say - as you said to SYRIZA last week - 'give it all over the first week', 'give everything away'. We have heard that it is a dynamic organisation, a chaotic phenomenon, perhaps, what we are living at the moment. It's a pandemic, which we've never been through before, right now, that we're on earth. It's a very difficult situation. So you cannot go out and say with such ease, "give it all away", "do everything now", "do not do your job properly", "you are irresponsible" etc. I think you're insulting yourselves. That's why I said it's good to be serious and not to be populists right now. I continue: The reduction of taxation, the reduction of insurance contributions to 3.9% and the abolition of the solidarity levy create conditions for recovery, ladies and gentlemen, for 2021. And we acted like that. We were and will continue to be active next to workers and businesses with support measures that extend and in 2021, with the total amount of measures to address the financial consequences of the pandemic reaching EUR 31.4 billion, of which EUR 23.9 billion is for 2020 and EUR 7.5 billion for 2021. We don't triumph. We are well aware of the problems that exist. We do not go ahead with irresponsible assumptions that would jeopardise the economy, but with targeted measures we try to support those who have been affected by the consequences of the pandemic. It is what I have been telling you before: targeted measures with reasonable sense, that we should be consistent in our positions so that we can save the situation. I personally discuss with several citizens every day from the South Athens Sector, which is my region, I hear their problems and their concerns. I know and know very well that mistakes may have been made and omissions. I'm the last one to say that we were all excellent. Apparently, there's been some little fools. I've said it several times. We've got a pandemic, which we've never seen before in our lives. So, of course, there will have been some little fools. We'd at least be immature if we said we did everything right. The fight we are giving, however, has a marathon traits and not a sprid, which SYRIZA insists on not understanding - what I said before - by presenting proposals, which would only be a new memorandum, in essence, short-sighted and irresponsible, as was the governance of SYRIZA. And I shall end, Mr President, so that I do not abuse your time - after all, I have exceeded it for a while - with this: Ladies and gentlemen, voting in favour of this budget is a vote of confidence in Greece, which can turn modern challenges into opportunities. We should understand that very well. 2021 will be the year of the great resumption of the economy, of course, but also of Greece as a whole, as it is a year of enormous symbolic importance for our nation, celebrating the two hundred years of national regenerativeism and reconciling the future that they themselves, with our own confidence, can be built. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, too. Mr Manolis Synthrakis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece. The State Secretary for Foreign Affairs will then be given the floor, Mr Frangoyannis. Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. This budget that we are debating is, in fact, a vote of confidence in the privileges of business groups, an unjust, class-based budget, with privileges, incentives, state subsidies and tax exemptions in large capital, but at the expense of the working class, the self-employed, the poor farmers, at the expense of the health and life of the people. All the urban governments in our country, in the European Union, throughout the capitalist world, always - and now - are struggling, exploiting state budgets as a tool for redistributing the wealth produced by blood and sweat that the people produce, shielding the interests of pluralism, creating favourable conditions for attracting investment with fiscal incentives, graceful regulations and with thick state subsidies. At the same time, we see it throwing the scalps to the workers, with various subsidised policies, creating conditions of even greater poverty, the armies of the unemployed and, at the same time, highlighting individual responsibility in pandemic conditions as to whether the people will live or die. Yes, Mr Plouris, on this issue you raised, when we say order, we mean a real order of private clinics, which you refuse to do, under conditions of a hundred deaths! And you dare step by step to say about the JRC about the issue it raises on the agenda? Not only do you not insist on private clinics, but you are reducing expenditure by EUR 600 million in the 2021 budget! Advantage gifts and privileges in favour of clinic officials and thus sacrifice human lives for the sake of the profits of the clinical rulers. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget confirms, as the JRC has repeatedly said, the lack of support for self-employed and freelance professionals in the conditions of the pandemic and the temporary nature of these minimum measures taken by the government in the previous period. Thousands of micro-enterprises have seen their income falling sharply, their debts increasing dangerously and the prospect of the locking approaching. The government is preparing the new attack. It is reflected in the increase in the volume of tax revenue by EUR 3.5 billion, in the increase in the income tax on individuals and individual businesses by EUR 200 million, in the increase in VAT revenue by EUR 2.5 billion. Despite the general reduction in economic activity, taxation from the first euro and the imposition of a trade fee continues. At the same time, the income tax for legal persons is set at EUR 3.4 billion together with the suspensions, that is, only 7% of the total mass of taxes, totalling EUR 48 billion. And what does the government oppose as a weapon to hide this suffocating pressure on self-employed persons? Their financing through the advance repayment programme. However, these sums corresponding to small and medium-sized enterprises, the self-employed EUR 1 000 for those affected, EUR 2 000 for those who have been closed by a government decision - apart from being reimbursed half of them, do not cover at least the major current needs for rents, providers and loans, considering that they relate to the entire period of the current lockdown from November to mid-December. With mathematical accuracy the government, in its policy, leads self-employed to insecurity, overcompensation and possible bankruptcy. The measures necessary to support them, their reintegration into the tax-free limit of 12 000 euros, the deletion of some of their debts to taxes and banks, and even their inclusion in the special-purpose allowance currently granted, which the JRC has repeatedly submitted, are rejected and rejected because they do not fit into the strengths of the economy, which are cut and stitched to support capitalist enterprises. Also, in an environment that is investment-friendly and the profitability of entrepreneurs cannot be left out of the municipalities, the regions, which are retired to serve capitalist growth through suffocating and continuous sub-financing, privatising social structures, children's stations, CDI - ASEAN, remuneration by increasing taxes and fees, plundering labour rights, wages and pensions, and flexible labour relations. For 2021, the total of the Central Independent Resources to be allocated to the local administration is just 2,560,000 euros, when the staff's pay is budgeted at 2,609,000 euros! The whole of the CAP does not even cover the remuneration of the staff! The funding for school wheelchairmen, the “Help at Home” programme, the cleanliness of school units is reduced by EUR 26 million, compared to 2020. For 2021, State funding is projected to be reduced to a total of EUR 210 million for the local government in relation to 2020. As a compensation for this reduction, the government is preparing new fees and taxes for citizens, which are expected to increase over 335 million euros, on the pretext of the so-called'square cross-blocking' made by the municipalities. Taxes and fees for 2021 will exceed the CAP by EUR 500 million. Many households and microprofessionals will rub their eyes with the buoyourdi that will receive the next space from the municipalities and even more will understand that it opens so with mathematical accuracy, and the way to increasing HIS. In relation to grants from the Public Investment Programme for investment expenditure, a small increase of EUR 113 million is foreseen. Of course, these grants do not cover people's needs for basic anti-military, anti-nuclear and anti-Semitism infrastructure, schools, children's stations or other social infrastructure. For example, public investment is only EUR 3 million budgeted for sport when we are dizzy by the government with great plans for the construction and maintenance of sports facilities. And the money in sport is only 2.36% more than 2020, i.e. 'fly', and the ones with the drop-off! We are at the end of 2020 and are still waiting for the 12 million euros, this modest amount in front of the multiple needs, unions and athletes, thus proving that the government through the Registry of Sports Associations seeks, extorting intrigues, amendments, with various tripods that it puts, suspending or controlling the antiquities of sports clubs, thereby putting a lock on their operation and under-financed in their biennial function, opening the way for direct intervention by investment companies in amateur sport.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u65	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u66	In conclusion - and I conclude with this, Mr President - the redistribution of wealth to the benefit of domestic and foreign capital is the one that goes through the budgets one by one and all the state's institutional institutions. State and local institutions are not a neutral field. They do not work for or against the people, depending on who is at the wheel of management. They were and will be taxi-pads and repressive mechanisms and will, where appropriate, ever use the whip and when the carrot. Therefore, we can only vote against the state budget as a budget for theft of popular income, a deep anti-grassroot, anti-environmental and dangerous to the people's interests. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u67	Thank you too, Mr. Synchronous. The Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Frangogiannis, is now called to Stepma and then the Member of the New Democracy, Mr. Friday Bryzidou, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, honourable Ministers, honourable Members of the Greek Parliament, foreign policy and, in particular, international economic relations are a constant measure of great benefit to the national economy. Especially at a time of more global crisis, our country must have strong and effective international economic relations, creating a strategy, making decisive manipulations and exercising effective economic diplomacy. In this respect, we who participate in the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis believe that the digital transition to an organisational and operational level will not only undo our diplomats' traditional activities, but will strengthen and enrich them, while reducing their operating costs. In any case, the strengthening, expansion and staffing of the international network of economic diplomacy structures is an organisational and economic challenge, but also a necessity in particular as a response to the challenge of the economic crisis, but also to the construction of a new economic model based on the attraction of investments and the strengthening of Greek exports. Once we took over the country's helm, we have made it clear our aim to reorganise, strengthen and invest in economic diplomacy as a whole. Our main intention is to make the Ministry of Foreign Affairs a national extrovert on the basis of the national plan for extroversion. To this end, we are implementing a comprehensive reform that needed the place with the inclusion of ENTERPRISE GREECE and the Export Credit Insurance Agency in the supervision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. These bodies have flexible support tools, which will reorganise the entire structure of the Ministry, working on a new organisation, which will provide for, among other things, strengthening the structures of economic diplomacy and the Economic and Commercial Affairs Offices, the OHIMs. At functional level through a comprehensive action plan and our intentions are the systematic targeting of our diplomatic authorities in actions promoting extroversion and international cooperation both in the digital sector and in the new economy as well as in the area of high technology and innovation with countries of highly developed technology. At the same time, we incorporate the dimension of bilateral and regional economic cooperation into our respective political initiatives, as, as we all understand in this Chamber, economic cooperation does not only serve our economic interests, but also contributes to the creation of a community of interests with other countries, which we capitalise not only economicly but also politically. In practice, we upgrade and strengthen the structures of economic diplomacy and the main pillars of economic extroversion with the reorganisation of the Central Office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the strengthening of the OHIM Offices around the world, the adequate staffing, funding, operation of actions and effective interconnection with the business world and Greek exporters. We are promoting the pursuit of economic diplomacy with quantitative but also qualitative criteria on the basis of the national plan for extroversion. At the same time, we are strengthening and restructured the 'ENTERPRISE GREECE', turning it into a modern and effective tool for supporting export businesses, as well as a national gateway to attract investment in the country. In addition, we unify competences aimed at exercising this foreign policy more effectively through economic diplomacy. We incorporate multilateral economic relations into the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, achieving a multi-level defence and promotion of the country's financial interests, creating a coherent framework for the monitoring and exercise of foreign economic policy and diplomacy. However, economic diplomacy and extroversion without funding, ladies and gentlemen, are empty concepts and cannot deliver the expected benefits. In order to achieve this objective, therefore, we intend to finance extroversion actions through flexible and specialised financial instruments offering both the ENTERPRISE GREECE and the Export Credit Insurance Agency. With the supervision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at ENTERPRISE GREECE and the GAG, administrative housing is being abolished, synergies are being developed, effective monitoring of outward action is ensured, thereby achieving a robust and well organised foreign policy. Furthermore, after the good news from Brussels of the last two days, we have been able to make a measurable and efficient increase in funding for the structures and actions of economic diplomacy, and also to table concrete proposals for extroversion that will be financed by the Recovery Fund and the other European programmes. The coordinating role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is, in my opinion, a guarantee of the success of the whole operation and allows for the further strengthening of inter-ministerial cooperation with a view to effective external economic policy. As you all know, our country together with the rest of the world faces an unprecedented pandemic situation because of COVID -19. Our Government, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has successfully faced the first wave of the virus and is now continuing in the middle of the second wave to give its best self and to gain the daily battle of the survival of Greek citizens. Inside, however, there are many opportunities coming out of every crisis. Greece has, in the midst of a pandemic, managed to do all that was not done over the past twenty years. With the dynamic created by the digital explosion of the last period, we are able to use modern digital tools, i.e. digital transformation and integrated digital transition at organisational level, but also in the context of extroversion actions. Our Government examines and evaluates a number of broader developments that will identify quality, normality and also the benefit to the country of transition to this new economic model. Ladies and gentlemen, our determination to promote the beneficialness of our country of European integration, as well as the successful management of a series of geopolitical and geo-economic developments in the wider region, can bring about reclassification of exports and investments, access to our markets and our alliances, economic and political. Particular emphasis is placed on maintaining geopolitical stability and security, especially in the eastern, south-eastern Mediterranean, which will ensure the rapid recovery of the Greek economy and the explosive attraction of foreign investments in our country. The challenges that extrovert entrepreneurship is now being called upon to face in post-COVID era are our ability to take advantage of the opportunities of green transition and digital transformation, international oil and raw materials prices, geopolitical tensions in the south-eastern Mediterranean, the strengthening of protectionist tendencies in international trade, the framework for relations between the European Union and Great Britain after Brexit, as this will eventually occur at the end of the year and, of course, developments in the Middle East. The 2021 budget will be the first since the pandemic budget, which, despite the narrow financial frameworks, has the expectation of making use of a package of nearly EUR 72 billion, will trigger the necessary relaunch of the Greek economy and will be an integrated plan for the prosperity and development of the Greek household. Ladies and gentlemen, our choices are constantly filled with responsibility. We know why the Greeks and Greeks have chosen us for the governance of the country and we also know very well what they expect from us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u69	Mrs. Friday Bryzidou from New Democracy is called in Step and then Mrs. Hara Kafantari is called by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the 2021 budget, a realistic, social and development budget. And it is realistic, because it has been prepared by the Minister and the Ministry and will be implemented by the present government, which has shown that it can handle difficult situations and that there is a consequence of announcements and works. So the budget, like the previous one, to which the government intended to overcome the deadlocks, develop the country, attract investors and be able to cope with the adverse economic situation with loans with low interest rates, so now it has high objectives which it will face with new data and even more difficult conditions, as long as the pandemic regime is in place. It is a social budget, a budget that supports vulnerable social groups, like the one that was last year, because there is care for every citizen who is in a weak economic situation. So we have the provision of minimum guaranteed income, of housing allowance, of heating allowance, of health care for all citizens, even those who are uninsured, of course free of charge, of course, throughout the whole area, of wages and pensions. The pension retrospectives given last year guarantee that these areas are guaranteed even in these difficult circumstances. So, as happened last year, so now that we need it, there will be care in all these categories. There is no citizen, whether he is unemployed or uninsured or unable to work, for which there is no provision, assistance and grant. The budget is also a development budget, because it gives many opportunities. First of all, there is the guarantee of the past. Despite the fact that last year, within the unfavourable conditions of the pandemic, the State's revenues were reduced by the suspension of VAT and the various payments that professionals and citizens had to make, the government stood alongside every free professional and entrepreneur and supported him with the repayable advance, with the support of special-purpose enterprises and with the support of all workers who were suspended, while a very large capital was placed on the market. Only the workers who have been paid in my area on job suspension reach 10 million. Special subsidies of 5 million were granted and 50 million were the advance, where 50% would not be repaid. So, since our state, since the government has taken care of this difficult treaty to help and support workers and businesses, is already preparing the next steps and supporting the unemployed with substantial subsidies to the entrepreneurs and professionals who will hire them. There is a reduction in the tax, a reduction in the HPAI, as well as a reduction in insurance contributions and a reduction in the solidarity levy. All these are large amounts which, with a very good programming, can provide the Ministry of Finance and the Government with the market and society, so that we can get back on our feet and get back on track quickly and correctly after the end of the pandemic. Also, the budget gives weight to other areas of our society, such as education, where there is provision for more teachers, thus supporting education as well as for unemployed teachers. And now I'm on health. I think there was no period of such difficult conditions as the previous pandemic. They cannot speak from other parties, especially from opposition, to compare situations. They are not compared and are many harder. Nevertheless, within this time period, we needed an IFD, because we had five hundred beds. But in a shorter period of time, we're over three hundred. This is an achievement and must be recognised. The same happened with doctors and hospitals. They are expected to be four thousand and seven thousand doctors were hired. I think we're dealing with this very well in the pandemic. Each patient can find care and save his life, while two years ago when there were none of these problems we encountered adverse situations. I think that we should encourage the government and support the budget that it touches and can also tackle this difficult problem. Finally, I would like to mention the defence concern and the prediction of the 2.5 billion which should be invested in the armaments programmes. As I have said several times and I will always support, above all it is the security of the country and its strong defence in decision-makers outside our country. This can be done with the diplomacy done in a very good way, both with the negotiations and the alliances that the Prime Minister has managed to increase with the contacts he has made. At the same time, we also have a strong defence, because we must send out the message in all directions that we are a strong, strong, organised country and that we are ready to deal with anyone who does not respect us and face us provocatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Brysidou. Ms. Hara Kafantaris has the floor from SYRIZA and then Ms. Maria Soulis from New Democracy. Here, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in one of the top parliamentary procedures, such as the budget debate, a budget that is a failure budget. You failed, gentlemen of the government! You have failed in all areas, such as the management of the pandemic. We have been mourning over three thousand human lives lately. In fact, we're not just talking about statistics and numbers, but about lives with names, we're talking about people. You have failed because you have brought us into the last place to health expenditure in Europe. You have also failed because you are implementing your failed ideological policies on public health. Mr Petsas said: "We'd throw money if we were to do it." Some other Members of your Parliament were recently placed and said: “What can we do to get doctors to them if we hire them? When the pandemic passes, what do we do to them?" This is the New Democracy's logic and ideality. But you also failed the economy because you managed to bring our country back into recession and not into pandemic, but since the end of 2019 and with recession and the first quarter before the first lockdown. You are, of course, trying to justify them, because then you talked about a positive recession. Mr. Papadimitriou, these are evidence and they are not questioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u73	That's what I'm saying! Look at the evidence!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u74	We have a recession of 11.7%...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u75	They've changed!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u76	Don't interrupt, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u77	We are first in Europe with 11.7% recession in the third quarter of 2020. Even the Parliament's Budget Office is talking about permanent deterioration of indicators and ongoing revisions. You also failed because instead of security, you brought repression and police rulership. I fear, gentlemen of the government, that you live in a dream world. Finally, take a walk to the neighborhoods of the cities, Athens and western Athens, which are highly downgraded. Talk to small and medium-sized people! GSEWE and Chambers fear that after the second lockdown and when the market opens, 1/3 of the stores will be finally closed. There is a 60% fall in the turnover of small and medium-sized enterprises in the third quarter before the second lockdown. And here is the idea of the Mitsotakis Memorandum, which means that the backbone of the Greek economy, which is small and medium-sized enterprises, is cleared up, because you may not want them, because you may serve great private interests. Is it enough, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to reduce the rent or to strengthen poorly the small businessman or trader? Why do you want to punish, in addition to the bankruptcy law with which many small and medium-sized people are in danger of losing their homes, of course, apart from many natural persons? But, yes, you are saying - and you are illustrating it in the budget - that we will have an increase in tax revenue on the other hand, on the other hand, you expect the transfer of tax and insurance obligations in April to collect. But then you're counting on the growth explosion, as you say. Even your budget provides in vain for increasing public receipts. Despite the optimistic forecasts, the OECD predicts anamic growth of 0.9% for 2021 and the World Economic Outlook International Monetary Fund at the IMF and World Bank Annual Meeting says the Greek economy will be dragging at growth rates of 1% by 2025. Not to say, of course, about the three hundred thousand pensions they are still waiting for. The budget you enter is an inequality budget. Inequality is evident. The crisis is being paid for by the populace again. Your unreliability is obvious. You were elected by a slogan "summers of the middle class", I'd say now you're madly fighting it. Finally, you do not support healthy entrepreneurship and productivity. Despite the suspension, due to pandemic, of the Stability Pact which is more relaxed than the EUR 37 billion left by SYRIZA - and which you have to recognise eventually - you are in the opposite direction to what the European Union does. The European Union is subsidising. Here, in Greece, you lend, gentlemen of the government. This is a huge difference, while all within your budget is reproduced in the Recovery Fund, but it must link the money it will give to specific prerequisites, according to the European Commission. To get EUR 5.5 billion in the first quarter, you must deliver concrete reforms and time. You insist, ladies and gentlemen of the government, on the failed growth model, which has brought us to the crisis since 2008, without adequate support for the production base. Green development in words, without dissemination of environmental policies in all areas. Indicative of the arrogant mercenary, without respect for the laws and the protection of the regions: mopeds in the Parnitha National Park, cementing and flooding of the global monument of the Acropolis, indifference in the effects of climate change, violent degreasement, not carbonisation demanded by the European Union, using you again fossil fuels, i.e. gas, degradation of protected areas with substantial dismantling of their management bodies. Your aim is clear. It's the re-establishment of the hard state of the right, your party state with a multitude of transmigrants. Especially in the Ministry of Citizen Protection, we have an increase in budget figures, but an increase in pay to the poster. And in the Civil Protection, we have urban recruitment outside the APA, which is something you want to abolish. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Why all this? Because you look like you're out of reality. The Prime Minister in Parnitha gave a signal of disobedience to health measures with his personal attitude. The citadel is watching the flooding of the Acropolis. It is without doubt following Turkey's violation of our sovereign rights by smuggling so many months into the Aegean Sea. So, unfortunately, I say - it accepts the recent diplomatic defeat at the summit. For it was a defeat of Greece, gentlemen of the government, at the Prime Minister of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u78	Be well. Thank you, too. I would now ask Mrs Sukuli Maria from the New Democracy to take the floor. Then prepare Mrs. Angeliki Adamopoulos from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. Listening to Mrs Kafantaris, I did not understand whether the analysis she has done is about what the situation is or how the situation would be for SYRIZA's good. But we work for the good of Greece. That's our difference, Mrs. Kafantari. Ladies and gentlemen, it ends a year that none of us could imagine its development. The global health crisis has brought us face to face with unprecedented health, economic and social challenges. Health hereticity has been, and is still, a major example of the development of our government's actions. We have been called in a liquid environment to promote the protection of public health, in every way protecting the invaluable value of human life and knowing that this aspect of political responsibility will not come without economic and social costs. We are talking about an economic and social cost arising from the violent and abrupt interruption of the economic cycle at a global level and resulting in the already afflicted body of the Greek society and economy since the ten years of crisis, at risk of further burdens and exhaustion. The difficult solution to this equation was not and is not an easy case for no state and no government in the world. Anyone who claims otherwise, or has no contact with reality or once again has deceited or seeks flags of opportunityal party exploitation. I wonder, do you want to raise such a flag by trying to turn such a serious health crisis into a golden party opportunity, or did you hear about waves of pandemic and wear the swimsuits of irresponsibility, have you taken the boards of populism and opened up at the sea - possibly of the Sunion - to find the highest wave of social discomfort, trying with the indifferent demagogue that distinguishes you from dividing Greek society? Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, 2020 is not 2015 and the Greek people understand the difficult situation and will not let their anger become a shepherd in your small-party pursuits. Stop bragging on the board of incompetence, on the shallow waters of impoverished proposals and solutions. In the face of this extremely difficult economic situation, we have triggered 31 billion euros to support workers and businesses in the private sector. In Corinthia alone, over EUR 106 million was committed, either in the form of a repayable advance, either with TIPS, or with special-purpose allowances, with the suspension, with the programme "COMPANY WORK". The private sector has never experienced the state as an arrogance so beside it. Our main objective and strategic choice was to maintain jobs and not to subsidise unemployment. The recovery of the already high rate of unemployment that could develop into a terriblely diluting phenomenon for the structural creation of the Greek economy, probably with insurmountable retreat difficulties, was the main point of reference in the battle we are giving. The figures show that we have managed not to transform pandemic tsunami into unemployment tsunami, with incalculable social consequences. At the same time and by continuing our reform work and also our prudent fiscal policy against the voices of the press "Take All Here and Now" that had begun to be heard since March, we managed to maintain our credibility abroad and our smooth lending from the markets at historically low interest rates, so that the health crisis does not turn into a crisis of confidence in the Greek economy and therefore in a liquidity crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 budget, as much as it somehow loses its literal meaning because of its healthly heresy, is a budget for creating a logical order for the Greek society for the next day, the day after the pandemic. His message is clear. Greece will not only overcome the crisis, but will emerge stronger through it. Your Government, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, but also all of us, the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, are determined to remain consistent in our strategic goal for Greece of prosperity and progress, without discounts. We will continue to try to change the country's productive model, especially now that we have the financial instruments. And with the Recovery Fund yesterday it was heard that the first 32 billion euros were unlocked. And not just. We will become more competitive on the markets. The digital transformation of the state, the sustainable development of the Greek economy by attracting investments with a green mark, the creation of targeted interventions in the infrastructure sector across the territory, have already begun to be implemented and will be accelerated. We will continue to invest in the country's defensive armour, so that the Armed Forces have the right tools to defend our national sovereignty over every entrepreneur. We will continue to reduce the tax burden on businesses and citizens. We will continue to be next to the most vulnerable social groups, as we have done with the doubling of the minimum guaranteed income for five hundred thousand fellow citizens, and we will not let households drown in the potential accumulated debts created by the pandemic. We will stand by them and offer the right framework to meet their obligations, but also to stand on their feet. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no room for delight in the difficult situation brought about by this global health crisis both in the Greek economy and in the Greek society. The only margin available is for more and more qualitative work. We are doing so, we will continue to do so, and in the end, we will succeed. Let me close, Mr President, a personal appeal, an appeal to my fellow citizens to embrace this hope mark that science has opened with vaccines against the coronary. I would like to call on the citizens to embrace vaccination as an act of solidarity and altruism towards the fellowman, against our loved ones, against ourselves, against all those who fight the front line, against businesses and workers. The Greeks and Greeks, united in the difficults, have proved that we can do it. And the present period should not be an exception. Greece will overcome the crisis and emerge stronger than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Sukuli. Mrs Adamopoulou Angeliki from Mera25 has the floor. Then prepare Mr. Yannis Loverdos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, if you are not here again speaking on an empty seat - that often happens - ladies and gentlemen, the debate and vote of the state budget is a top parliamentary procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u82	All the ministers here are. Four hours here is the Minister. He went out for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u83	I'm talking about the Minister of Finance, because I'd be addressing the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u84	Wait till we get him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u85	There's an unforeseen effect.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u86	We have explained this from the Bureau that, if there are any Secretarys, there is no question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u87	I shall speak about the budget, Mr President. If they can answer me, good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u88	I'm tempting the time because you've been interrupted. Please, ladies and gentlemen, do not interrupt Mrs Adamopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u89	The debate and the vote of the state budget is a top parliamentary procedure, which in any case requires a high sense of political responsibility. So you will allow me, Minister, to note that you have been too late to admit the real situation of the economy and this refusal and your frustration have led you to long delays and wrong planning. From the first lockdown you already knew and we all knew what would happen. No serious forecast of the progress of the economy has coincided with the statement made by the Minister, since he alone has been trying for some time to reassure the people with false hopes that things would go much better than we calculated. On 17 March 2020, the Secretary-General of Mera25, Mr Varoufakis, told you seriously and responsibly that the recession would reach 10%. The next day, the Minister told us that it would reach a limit of 0%. In April you spoke of a possible recession of 5% and an extreme in 9%. As the days and international analysts and organizations were talking about at least 9% recession, the Minister told us that these predictions are very insecure and avoided telling the Greeks the truth. These predictions were not insecure, they demanded sincerity, knowledge and a clear look, which the Ministry finally proved to have had no. Today, then, we have a material budget at 10.5%, which is 2.3 percentage points more than the Ministry's estimate, and not only that, but you also anticipate a positive growth rate of 4.8% compared with the initial one, which was 7.5%. The problem isn't that the Ministry has fallen outside. The problem is that forecasts for growth almost 5% and for primary deficits at 3.88% of GDP compared with 1.1% are moving to the limits of mythoplasty. I'll be a little at the pandemic. You are announcing that 5.5 billion euros will be committed to dealing with the pandemic. But all this money will not be spent. Only the 2.5 billion will be the planned disbursements and 3 billion, he says, will be used if necessary. So on 8 December we arrived to have the most dead per day and per population from the day - record of the United States of America and the Ministry lives in its sphere 'if necessary'. It tells us, in other words, clearly that it does not consider it necessary either to strengthen the national health system or to protect the private sector in order to protect the clinical authorities. You keep the 3 billion euros on the side, and the necessary recruitment of permanent staff could also be carried out massively with the EUR 2 billion. Social expenditure is reduced by EUR 43 million compared with 2020, i.e. around EUR 200 million. No concern for small and medium-sized enterprises in most sectors, which are tested for the crisis, for the long-term unemployed, no intake, no health and education infrastructure. On the other hand, this social analgesia is combined with a turn in militarism. There are many philosophical sites that triumph the fact that defence spending will increase by 61%, touching 5.5 billion euros. In other words, for public health or EUR 2.5 billion for defence expenditure EUR 5.5 billion. In fact, you are announcing that six thousand professional soldiers will be recruited in the recruitments when you do not mention any provision of permanent staff of the ERC. You look at tax revenues and you see that tax revenues will be increased, but only in your rhetoric will such an increase be compatible with tax revenues after the worst economic performance of the last forty-five years, without this increase in revenues matching an increase in taxation itself. And, of course, I am talking about rhetoric, because, behind closed doors, the only tax reliefs to be made will strengthen big incomes, high incomes. So, in order to do what the New Democracy says, we need to see a cumulative escalation in consumption and exports, a reduction in unemployment, an increase in wages and pensions, a strengthening of newly created and existing business activity, a strengthening of tourism at pre-currency levels and lower taxation. So you are asking us to vote on a state budget which is written on the knee, with distortions, with problems, with a distorted target. You're asking for our co-responsibility. The crisis, which impoverishes the Greek citizens, will not be overcome by policies that have led us to this day. We are not entitled to let another decade be lost by 'yes to everything'. We therefore believe that the only alternative to the desertification of the country and to the poverty of the citizens is the vision of Mera25. The haircuts and institutional cuts that Mera presents as an integrated law proposal are the only hope for the rescue of small and medium-sized citizens and for the state to recover the tools it must have in its hands to protect its citizens. We therefore propose three institutional areas. Firstly, drastic haircuts in tax, credit and insurance obligations, without which the bankruptcy of businesses and households will be recycled all the time. We are proposing deep areas in the public sector, so that the state can regain the tools that the troika has received from it and, on the other hand, that the power be transferred from the public to the citizens through the parliamentary councils of elected and confiscated citizens. The third institutional section, of course, concerns a green productive restructuring for the conversion of Greece into the centre of green technologies in the first century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mrs Adamopoulou, for keeping time. Mr Yiannis Loverdos has the floor from New Democracy and then the fourth Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Dimitris Vitsas, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called on to discuss and vote for one of the most difficult budgets in Greece's history and this is because the country is faced with an unprecedented pandemic that has not been present for over 100 years, a pandemic that has brought up - down the world and has been causing us all reasonably particular concern for both the present and the future. It is natural that this budget has many problems. In fact, it could not be done differently. Anyone who claims that we could make the perfect budget in such conditions of such great uncertainty and liquidity or make cheap and inexpensive opposition or lives in another world. I'm not one of those people who'll say there's no mistakes, no revolts, no mistakes. It's done. It couldn't be done differently. The management of such a situation, such an unprecedented situation, has no manual to tell us how to manage it. That is why they are doing the same in all the countries of the world facing this unprecedented pandemic. I knew that when I came to this Chamber, I would hear from the opposition, in particular from SYRIZA, many irresponsible things. I understand that today's debate is being offered for cheap and inexpensive opposition, but I did not expect to hear what I have heard from Mrs Kafantaris and others. I'm very sad, because every day - and not many people have understood that, they don't want to understand - a hundred of our fellow people are losing their lives. We also owe their families, above all, great respect, great respect. We shouldn't sleep at night, when a hundred people die every day in this country, not to tell the whole world. In this country we didn't have so many deaths in war. The thousands of these deaths are not exploited. It is the subject of great consideration, great attention and great responsibility. I heard from Mrs Kafantaris that I had heard it earlier on a television show by Mr Giannoulis, neither too much nor too much that the government was responsible for the dead. But are you serious? Are you serious about the government being responsible for the dead?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u92	Don't twist!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u93	Mrs. Captain, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u94	I never twist and I know Greek! I guess you don't know! And it's a sorrow to what you're doing, it's a disgrace to the families of the dead! She said Mrs. Kafantari about the small- and medium-sized ones, she says we abandoned them. At the moment, in fact, entrepreneurs, free professionals, private sector workers are going through a great deal of trouble. Lockdown was fatal to bring this huge inconvenience and brought her. There is no country in the world where the private sector does not have terrible pressure because of Lockdown, which is unfortunately on public health grounds. This is a very difficult balance. The West Athens, in which I am elected, was mentioned. I assure you that if we go to a small businessman today, to a shopkeeper in Petroupolis, Illion, Aigaleo, Peristeri, and ask him: "Who would you like to be in government today, New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis or Alexis Tsipras and SYRIZA?", they would say to you "I Pass too hard, I suffer, I do everything I can to survive, but to God, if it were Tsipras and SYRIZA we would have shut down by now." Ask, let's go hand in hand to ask. Mr. Vitsats will be here after that, which is from the same district. I've been there, that's why I'm telling you. So irresponsible opposition, don't do it, it's not available for the seasons we live in. It's very difficult the seasons we live in are scary the seasons we live in. And I hope that with the vaccine coming in a month from now, we'll gradually begin to enter normality. But this budget cannot be a budget as it is every year. It is under uncertain conditions, which constantly review the economic progress assessments. This is not only the case in Greece, it is the case worldwide. See what the European Commission says about assessments. See what different states say about appreciation. Other predictions made six months ago, other than eight months ago, others are now doing and others will do tomorrow, fateful, since they do not know when to stop this evil. You saw what was happening in Germany. You saw that in Germany the pandemic is out of control and they are thinking of a universal lockdown because the health system cannot be tolerated. Is it also the responsibility of Mr Mitsotakis and his Government for the health system in Germany? Tell me. Fortunately here in Greece, in these circumstances, with all the problems and with all due respect to the families of the victims, we didn't have one left outside of the ITH. We didn't have phenomena like the ones we saw in Bergamo, like the ones we saw the other day in Texas, with the beds on the streets and on the backyards of the hospitals. We have not seen this and we will not see it in Greece thanks to the reinforcement under very difficult conditions that this government has given to the National Health System and will continue to give. So let's not meditate. Things are hard, it's too hard. We hope that soon we will be able to control pandemic thanks to the vaccine that comes, but we are living under uncertain conditions and the government is doing everything possible to deal with this situation with the best possible treatment, as was the returnable advance, which is a tool that has helped. As you saw, the government, Starros, Georgiadis, all of them, had started another one that didn't come out, then with bank loans. They realized he wasn't moving on, and they withdrew it. They brought the repayable deposit that went very well and helped and relieved the professionals. The same will happen now. Whatever we need and what we can do, we'll do it. But think if Stakoras had followed your advice eight months ago, in March, in April, "give everything now", what would happen today? Greece would have been bankrupt today if we had shared all of the so-called "cushion" of 35 million since then, because we did not know when and how this situation would end. Thank you very much, good afternoon.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u97	You have a minute, Mrs. Kafantaris, to tell what the staff consists of.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u98	I am very sorry to Mr Loverdos, who, in his view, interpreted his communication account, to satisfy what I said in my position. I referred to what the Greek people hear on TV every afternoon. Thank you, Mr President, for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u99	Well, you have made it clear, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 68 of the Rules of Procedure. The floor is raised by Vice-President Vits.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u100	Long time you've had it, dear Mr. Loverdos, from Aigleo and Illion, it seems to me, a long time. And it makes sense, because the stores are closed anyway and not just there, but throughout Greece. So you probably haven't seen anyone. I would like to tell you that with two words it can be described as the total course of this government: total failure, failure in the management of the pandemic. You fly millions for communication and you expect private sponsorships from this House, which has done a very good thing, to create new MDGs that are so necessary. Increase the tests, play with the case numbers and the valuation values of the tests. You don't have the least consciousness about people's pain. You say hello - this is where the hail goes - that elsewhere it's worse. Does that please you? We must look at our own, what we are doing, gaining from the good practices of others. You have failed to manage the economy at the same time. You do not have a plan that combines the economy with the needs of pandemic. Are you aware that hundreds of thousands of workers live with 500 euros a month? You will tell me that there are other workers living at 200 euros, but they do not beat each other. Do you realize that tens of thousands of small and medium-sized people have a monthly income of zero? Do you realize that if you did half of what we proposed to you with the programs "We Stay Upright I" and "We Stay Upright II" and the recession would be smaller and the resistance of society would be greater? And yet your logic and practice are: "Let us now take it off like the pandemic and then the big private sector, the capital, will clean it up." It is not because the large private capital in Greece is mostly state-owned and will also ask for the change. It will ask for full subordination of the state, work and democratic rights. That's what you've got in mind. That logic you serve. But let me look again. I guess I'm wrong. You didn't fail. The truth is, through your ideas, you're planning failure. So in failure you have succeeded. That's what this budget looks like. Let us see practically two examples. For months we and other parties have been telling you to watch the opening of tourism. Tourism is not only tourists, it is transport. It is also the focus, it is the interaction of the regions. There are so many other things. The Prime Minister comes a few days ago and accuses us of why we were telling you: "Watch out, here there is a danger. The protocols must be uniform. We must go seriously, and so on." He told us that these 3-4 billion that we took from tourism we need them. We really need them. But one cannot think that we have collected what we have received, but immediately afterwards we have spent more on health care and human cases in diseases, in lockdowns, etc.Huh? This is unlikely to be considered by your economic thoughts. To satisfy the religious feeling we have had brilliant ceremonies in the pandemic, and in this way we have sent thousands of people to hospitals, to isolation. I don't want to move on. You won't hear from me that word that's on everyone's lips. What brilliant brain from the government or anywhere, while seeing that Kozani, Kastoria, Thessaloniki, Pella are catalysts, in Lockdown, allowed the holiday trip three days in Florina and Grevenna, resulting in green yellow areas becoming also the oasis of the coronary? The second example: Minister for Finance, this is where you are sad. You say it's not like that, it's not 0% etc. I tell you to leave your predictions from March. You've been here for twelve years. Let's get the last ten. I don't remember what happened the two previous days. Can you tell me a prediction from Mr. Stakoura that has succeeded over the last ten years? However, Mr Stavros insists. It occurs to the second largest political liar, rapidly overcoming many others. You saw it yesterday in the debate with Euclid Tsakalotos. Secondly, of course, because the first position is occupied and differing. We were here with Mr. Stakoura a few days ago for the Scaramaga shipyards. Mr. Stavros wished. Listen, the Minister of Finance wishes - if possible! - The competition should work. He told me they could take over more than two investors. There's been a competition. Two took part. The bidder offers 15.1 million and the shareholder mocks us and offers 1 million. For scrap to sell the fortune of the Scaramaga shipyards, the bidder will make more than 15 million. That's well known. In the vicinity of the area you make a competition and say 'we move from 55 million'. What will you do if the prices go like this? A tender for the adjacent area. Please give a serious answer, because you are probably involved in a game and personally. I don't mean anything bad. I mean, political game. Mr. Minister of an impenetrable cyclist government, the ultimate state very soon revealed. Oligarchal centralism, bias in favour of friends, party occupation and demolition of all transparent public institutions, anti-democratic authoritarianism and extreme right defending social conservativeism and communication, communication, communication. The Gains Code of Gift to the banks and the funds. The law on the environment presents large polluting businesses. The spatial planning? I'm looking at Mrs. Kafantaris. For the waste. Spatial planning has gone for the waste. From this point of view, programming priorities are to highlight and insist on the crucial issues of democracy. Is that possible? So long you have not brought a law on the changes to the constitution that we voted on. What's next? You translate the Constitution into it and you start things that are actually political persecution. And well, Paulis. It smokes and you don't like it. But what about Mrs. Cassimatis? And Mrs. Adamopoulou from Mera25? And I don't know who else the next time? It is therefore a programming priority to tackle enlargement and increase inequalities, to tackle the climate crisis, to strengthen the social state and to highlight the needs of the invisible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, please conclude. You've been in nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u102	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I get it. We need a new production model, a new plan, the 'Anti-Ssaridis' project that will shield work and society and promote the integration of the rule of law. That's what's necessary. Only two words, Mr President, and I am very sorry. It's the summit. Is Mr. Petch gonna show up here and say we've succeeded? In the end, we will come out and say that we have succeeded if the results do not say that it is our fault for the situation in the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean. If possible. What are you doing in relation to this? You are isolating Greece. You're not taking big measures. I shall now close now, Mr President, with this latter. We do not seek sanctions on this issue to punish the Turkish people, to know. We seek sanctions to force the Turkish Government to sit at the table of dialogue on the basis of international law. Mr. Mitsotakis told us recently that he found nothing, no letter in Maximos. Humor left the door, knocked his head, didn't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u103	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u104	So let him look better. But not finding anything, quickly the Greek people will compel them to write the smallest letter, what they say "good-bye".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u105	Mr Frangoyannis has the floor for two minutes for clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u106	I just wanted to say this: I understand the opposition tactic, but at some point you said, Mr Vitsa, that we are not conscious of the pain caused by the coronary to our fellow citizens and you have spoken of hail. Excuse me, but it's hard for me to accept that. We're all fighting. I personally have a member of my family who fights the coronary and I find it difficult to accept that we do not have a government of empathy against what the citizens are going through. It doesn't matter if we're government and you're opposition. We're going through a big wave that agitates our society together. We're one across that, and we're not hailed. Forgive me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u108	A clarification made by the State Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u109	He referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u110	Here you go, Mr. Vitsa, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u111	You must understand this: I'm not telling you, we're not telling you that you're bad people. Of course, you're in pain, of course, and you've got people suffering. We all have people who suffer from coronary. It hurts and it hurts. I'll go further. You love your fellow humans, you love small animals, you love everything. That's not the point. It is your policy that is hostile and inefficient.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u112	In any case, it is a different approach on a number of issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u113	That's what I mean. The Minister was shocked and he says 'I have people'. Of course you're sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u114	Please use the mask when we're on the benches. Mr. Vitch didn't think about it. Mr. Dimitrios Markopoulos has the floor from New Democracy, then Ms. Hara Kefalidou from the Change Movement, and immediately after the speech, the Minister of Labour Mr. Vroutzis will be given. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, look at this. We're not some rabbis we want to trouble the world with. Because I have heard something about what the people's neighborhoods say, I now inform the people's neighborhoods as a man I have not just had my office in a people's area, such as too many MPs in Officerial Representation, but I have been resident for many years, for forty-five years in people's areas. So the neighborhoods are here and they remember that HISPHIA up to 22% in Keracini, Nice, Perama, Drapetsona, Korydalus, Rentis, you increased him by over 20%. The popular neighborhoods are here and remember that the letter of desperation of the "PITSOS" workers who since 2016 have been requesting an appointment from Alexis Tsipras and not even appreciated by your Chief to accept them in order to find a way if their unit is not closed, Mr. Tsipras has never answered it. You know, this unit is at Rendi's, which you don't call it Causal or Kifisia that many of your ministers are staying. I would also like to stress something very important. The Government of the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis is a government that has a characteristic structural, significant, substantial difference with the period of your own rule as SYRIZA with the far right corporation of ANELs: We have not created a crisis. We managed a crisis that found the whole planet. You, in the unnecessarily referendum of 2015, have created huge economic holes, you have created an unprecedented crisis, while we manage a crisis for which we do not have a responsibility, but we manage it adequately. The New Democracy did not cause unnecessary referendums that destroyed banks and production. The New Democracy has not charged the country for free because of its ideological obsession. SYRIZA created a 100% crisis of his own. You are, then, economic perplexes. You're not financial victims. You've got a heavy responsibility. As the epidemiological debate has been opened, you are deeply responsible because SYRIZA says: "Which, there has been an increase in cases, what the government is doing." I would remind you that you cared for the movements of the little girlry in the squares and said nobody intervened, not to mention the health impact of these movements. You said that conquests should not be affected in schools that obviously have brought many people into contributors and began to excite. So we are the power of responsibility you want - you do not want and this budget is a budget of responsibility. You cried and said to use the pillow, to use the waiver immediately, forward. I remember the phrase of many of your officers, because you know I'm one of those people coming out in the TV panels. In March - April that was what you said. So use the waifer forward. Your reading - so it went, so it was, so it arrived - you know who it was? "The crisis will last March, April, let's get to May, let's take the money forward, so that in the autumn it's all over to be okay." If we had followed what you were saying, we would have been destroyed. The state's resources would have evaporated. May I remind you of other things you were talking about? May I remind you that you were talking about private clinic orders from March and April, and that wasn't necessary then? That's it. How many millions would be worth in the budget? Unresponsible to make private S.H.I.E.R.'s cheques, because that's how it's to be done. In economic terms, therefore, SYRIZA's proposals - to make it clear - were also unconscious, because SYRIZA has always been a regular tactic - operates with now and never tomorrow. On the contrary, Christos Stakoras in the face of the affluent and costly you suggested brought measures of substantial relief. Refresh your memory. Unrealistic waves of repayable advance. The market itself - and I say this to you as a journalist who has been engaged in economics for twenty years - embraced these programmes. The programme 'COMPANY WORK', the suspension of tax insurance, including banking obligations, allowances and allowances to employees in a series of sectors, the reduction of 3.9%... Don't go, Mrs. Kafantari, because you didn't vote for this. Listen to the stigma, which I will carry you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u116	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u117	By 3.9% reductions in insurance contributions brought by Giannis Vroutzis and will fall "hot" of money in difficult times for the workers, you did not vote for them. Bring the stigma of this wrong choice. You cannot bear in mind that EUROSTAT and the University of Ottawa welcome the Government and the Ministry of Labour for better management of job cuts by the present Government. It's hard for you. Refugee to see the obvious. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Also, your executives are investing in populism. Let me remind you of your colleague, your partner Christos Giannoulis, who has been unrealisticly turned and with that logic, he has always said - and this style is a little sweet-sweetened, adlectuel - 'you know, the government kills people'. If that had been said by a New Democracy official, you'd probably stand up and throw us stones, whatever you were in front of you. Mr Giannoulis, of course, was 'comme il faut'. You were lying about the recession in the fourth quarter. You were lying about the first quarter. It's not coming out of you. You're out of numbers! Look at that. So this budget has been drawn up under unprecedented circumstances. It is a pragmatic budget that allows us to be optimistic. It's a road map. Also, this budget is based on the scenario that in spring the country will come out of the pandemic. He's founded on scientific assessments. You know, to stress and remember, that we, Mr. Mitsotakis in his Government "Mavraganides" would never allow it to have. These dark-blooded politicians Alexis Tsipras had them as their Undersecretaries. So what do we say in this budget? The vaccine comes and a better future opens. It is a development budget with provision for the absorption and utilisation of the recovery fund, with an increase of 4.8%. He's a pro-investor. Do not forget - and I conclude - that the New Democracy, you do not want Christos Stakoras to reduce the taxation of natural and legal persons. They reduced the tax on distributed profits. They've reduced HISPICIA 22% in mid-stage. They got rid of HISBIA on the small intimate islands. They suspended VAT on the building. They gave incentives to the start-ups. It is therefore a reformist budget with deep and structural reforms. We move on to flagic investments in Greek, "VOLKSWAGEN" in Antipalea with national characteristics. With PFIZER we're here. MICROSOFT invests EUR 1 billion. Where can you imagine that? We have upgrades from Moody's. We have the Monocle to present us as'soft power'. It's a flexible budget. In conclusion, the vote in favour of the budget clearly has its parliamentary part. We're seeing it these days. At the same time, however, it also reflects the confidence of Greek citizens and Europe in the face of the government's policy. This - beyond Parliament - is the real vote of confidence in this budget. That is why you know, because our society is voting for, you are being voted against by society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u118	The reason is now the MP of the Movement of Change, Mr. Hara Kefalidou, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, I would like a little tolerance in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u120	No, there will be no tolerance for anyone. That's why I'm warning you and stress that you have seven minutes. Finishing your phrase in seven and a half minutes makes sense and next. The same will apply to the Ministers. There's no other way. That's what everyone's asking. You have the floor, Mrs. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, drafting a budget for a state is a provision for next year and a great bet of discipline for an entire country. The shaping of this year's budget for 2020-2021 with the planet is confronted with the uncertainty that pandemic has brought to our lives and everything that engenders is a problem for excellent solvers. Economics, fiscal indicators and objectives of the country are hanging at the end of the day from a guess of many pages. Under the present circumstances, where it is possible to know both the depth and extent of the health crisis, it is indeed difficult to prepare reliable forecasts. This year's budget is directly influenced by the macroeconomic developments of the year we are experiencing, while health, geopolitical, energy, financial, international developments within 2020-2021 will be a decisive factor. We are now in the second wave of pandemic and the most unfavourable scenario of the draft budget presented to the House since last October is being implemented. The government's initial estimate of a recession was forced to be revised three times by the Ministry of Finance. It turned out to be based on very overestimates. It reached a minus of 10.5%, of the largest in the country's post-war history, while the recovery for 2020-2021 to 4.8% from 7.5% in the preliminary draft. The negative effects of the pandemic on the economy, as recorded both in the Report of the European Commission and in the draft budget of the Ministry of Finance, go beyond any precedent. However, this corrected budget proposal by the government for next year also insists on an over-optimistic scenario that is not supported by reality. And it may indeed be that the dynamism that you are breathing and that you are already advertising is making a timely climate of hope and euphoria, giving courage and hope, but it still seems to be flying on a very short trip to the clouds with an abnormal landing up to certain. This government policy at the same time has a hard price for everyone, both because it creates erroneous expectations in the design of households and businesses, as well as because it was based on and insists on wrong assumptions about the choice of measures taken as a response to the crisis and about the planning of economic policy. These measures have so far proved to be totally inadequate, which is the result of government recognition of the unfavourable scenario. The basic idea behind it, that the speed of economic growth will bring about a rapid return to a positive financial result, is now unacceptable of any question or criticism. It is clear that this year's November confirms that expectations of rapid growth within 2020-2021 do not obey logic rules, but we expect a miracle on which the government is based, investing and it supports its entire economic structure for next year. Inside, however, the budget figures show both the intentions, objectives and priorities of the government and the arbitrary assumptions it has made and the means it will use to achieve them. The Government's insistence on cultivating over-optimism today leads to the choice of defence budgetary policies, at a time when we need an expansive fiscal policy that stabilises the recession and gives oxygen to the recovery of the economy. We don't. They call it the proposals of supranational organizations, the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund, the OECD. This option, which looks like'seeing and doing', is a purely ideological option that refuses to accept what our country at the same time asks us of the European Union, namely that during periods of great decline in economic activity and reduced investment and consumer demand the state or the European Union should take action, covering with increased costs citizens and businesses affected by a crisis without any fault and without any possibility of intervention. Ladies and gentlemen, the government in terms of its development and economic strategy accepted the Pissaridis report. It did well, however, on a condition that it is perceived as what it is, a scientific report which, to a large extent, shows with realism where we are as a country, where we must go, where we need to get there. It's over! The state budget, however, is the programme to be implemented by the country and reflects the economic paths chosen for 2020-2021 by the government to follow in order to reach the final destination shown in the report. This choice is excellence and above all politics. It belongs exclusively to the Government and is not indicated by any report. The economic growth for 2020-2021 is largely based on the forecasts for the EUR 5,5 billion from the Recovery Fund and the multiannual financial framework, totalling EUR 72 billion. With an important footnote, however, the fund has not yet been set up and the bureaucracy of the European Union is known. The first money is therefore expected at the end of the summer and that the multiannual financial framework has a small contribution to the reality of 2020-2021, without particularly affecting GDP. Two words now in the field of education. In the 2020-2021 budget it is completely inconsistent - and the figures we see - with the chronic and extraordinary needs due to a pandemic. A budget, therefore, for cuts that run counter to what the government has announced for modern public education, for participation by all pupils in telematics, for upgraded programmes, for full reform of vocational education and so many others. The resources provided for in the regular section show a decline of 1.17%. These are the cuts in the budget of the Secretariat-General for Vocational Education - out of 78 million we go to 47 million, 33.4% down to higher education, which is reduced by 19.87 million. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we must accept that anyone who tries to make a serious prediction of the progress of the economy in the years to come will be extremely risky. That is why it is unacceptable to cultivate the citizens of a generalised euphoria climate before the gates and rapid recovery in the country. Let us be more serious and sufficiently satisfied if, with all these difficulties, we manage to record a positive figure of 2% to 3% and that has a response to everyone's pocket and not just the chosen ones. For all these reasons, and above all because the only miracle that we can expect is the vaccine against COVID -19, we are voting against the budget. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, I will say again - and I will say this with the experience I have after so many years of parliamentarians - that we are in number thirty-four and there are two hundred fourteen Members registered. In fact, the budget does not look like the other bills, you know, where we stand in one, two, three articles. Seven minutes is seven minutes. You all come prepared. Prepare - and I say it to hear it and those who are not in the Chamber - that the time for both Members and ministers will be respected. Mr. Minister of Labour, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor for ten minutes. I stress, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will try to keep up with your timetable, although there is always a flexibility. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this budget, the difficult budget as it has been found and recorded by all the rapporteurs, is a budget that has a strong two elements: it is a deep social and intense development. One might question what I say, as the opposition is questioned, or add and confirm what I say with many arguments and facts. I will only say three things, which are precisely what this is about. Firstly, he has no new tax. Secondly, it has reduced contributions. Thirdly, it has the abolition of the solidarity levy. These three alone marks - and the simplest citizen understands it - that it is a budget, in the difficult circumstances in which we live, in the right direction, in the direction that the next day Greece must go in the face of precisely the investment and the reform that we need to prepare, so that we can raise the country and take it where it really deserves and to protect every Greek citizen with policies that are deeply social. To go to 2021, however, we have to say for 2020, a 2020 which we can say has a rich account. For this account of the Ministry of Labour, I would like to speak with you and record a number of issues which concern both the present and the future as regards social policy and social security and the labour market. In 2020, something very important was done in our country. Insurance reform 4670/2020 was passed in March - with a timetable of 1 March 2020 - 31 December 2021. And I'll explain why. This insurance reform has now liberated the creative and productive forces, which were the voice of society, from the income that the insurance had turned into tax. We said it in here, we did it. This insurance law has a course by 2070, because it is the first in history to come to Parliament on a proportionate basis, which was tabled when it was voted. This insurance law creates new conditions, gives power to the freelance professionals, to the self-employed. At the same time, this insurance law creates for the first time in the country a unique national social security institution, which unifies all insurers. That's what she does. And this insurance law comes in its course, since its creation, as of 1 March 2020, to fulfill and close wounds of the past. And I'm explaining. Firstly, we paid two hundred and fifty thousand supplementary pensions - EUR 300 million - to pensioners, debts and obligations from the previous government. We got it on us. Second, a million and fifty - two thousand pensioners retrospectively got backwards. These liabilities were 1.4 billion and were debts from the past. Thirdly, seventy - two thousand twenty - two were the debts on the platform of the heirs. It's already on track. They will be repaid by the end of February 2021. Fourthly - it was the first priority - in a direction that the Prime Minister himself, Mr Mitsotakis, gave, showing sensitivity, to eighty thousand widow's pensions, we increased the rate from 50% to 70%. Fifth, we inherited forty-five thousand - in bags - funeral expenses primarily of rural families. Forty-five thousand. Since 2015, nothing has been given. Today I am pleased to tell you that we have given it all. We don't owe one case of funeral expenses. At the same time, for the first time, we have succeeded in unifying the system of primary and supplementary pensions, saving huge man-hours in banks and reducing assembling. The main pensions are now paid together with the subsidiary. At the same time, we have also created new infrastructure. The infrastructure, for example, which has recently been heard, will be given digitally, electronically, without the presence of three institutions - doctor, employer and e-ECA - saving a hundred and twenty thousand fewer attendances. At the same time, we also built the platform for the expenses of death, the funeral, where no one no longer needs to go to e-ECA and his relative will be paid automatically. At the same time, this new insurance law brought the promised ones that the place needed to cultivate insurance, lost insurance. He gave it a reward. We have created the free accusations of free professionals, self-employed farmers, for whom we had a special approach, as well as young people entering the labour market, and that now gives the insurance law, which is our commitments for 2021, as I will say below. Two more important events occurred in 2020. Firstly, what was a generation's dream, what many doubted, the digital pension "ATLAS" was created. The digital pension “ATLAS”, in the presence of the Prime Minister, was inaugurated on July 26, 2020 at the Ministry of Labour, takes two major categories, the categories of widowhood and the categories of farmers. All new pensioners will be retired in seconds. And this plan is completed by the end of 2021, with the timetable that we have set and developed. At the same time, we have presented - for the first time again - what Parliament needs, what was missing, in addition to the digital pension, the information system 'ATLAS' recorded so that there is never again a question in the House about what the outstanding pensions are, how many pensions come out, how many pensions the workers have been asked for. It's over, too. I am tabling the Minutes and now, in the budget, this text here, which is the text that will be published monthly, we will also give it to Parliament and it will be made public. So we're closing this page with the past. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, presents the above text for the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For 2021 and the digital "ATLAS" system: The digital system as a whole will be completed by the end of the year in the schedule we have set. And the big question, 'what about the ongoing pensions?', will this also be answered through the organisational restructuring that we have already started - starting - and at the beginning of the year and in 2021 we will also fulfil this requirement to award the outstanding basic pensions for all pensioners. This is our plan, this is our effort and we will do whatever it takes to satisfy that too! A 50-year-old passivity will be solved by the Mitsotakis Government for the first time in 2021, although we have lockdowns and we have terrible difficulties. The second major chapter concerns labour market issues. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to confess to you that what I experienced as Minister, with the experience of 2012-2014, with regard to workers and the labour market, was something unprecedented, which I think has put us all into a thought of how to deal with this unprecedented wave of adventure for the country, which has mostly hit after health, the labour market, which was the weakest link in society. I believe that in the management from March to December, in cooperation with Christos Stakouras, the Ministry of Development, the entire government, united, methodically, responsible, and reasoned, we handled things well. And it comes today to confirm this - no, I will not invoke the 'ERGANI', I will not invoke ELSTAT at the percentages they give - and I invoke the European Commission's positions as well as what has been heard in public now. World-famous economists come and say what it sounded very happy and pleasant here in Greece, that in the period of COVID -19 if anyone wants to see how the right process and the right policies are, then follow Greece's example. I am tabling the specific texts, which confirm what I am saying. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, presents the above-mentioned documents in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 budget has some elements in it, which I would like to say to confirm what I described before. The first number relates to e-ECA and concerns the main pensions. So I mention e-ECSC 2020: 24,825,000, e-ECSC 2021: 25,451,000, 626,000. This figure is exactly where we set the bar, to fulfil the outstanding overdue basic pensions. Secondly, it concerns the OPEKA, our social policy: 600,000 more, which shows precisely the mark of this budget, its social orientation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u124	Close, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u125	I shall conclude, Mr President. A third aspect is the question of increasing the wages of workers. Yeah, we're talking about raising the wages of workers. It will result indirectly, by reducing the 3,9 units starting from January 1, 2021 cumulatively. In this Chamber, when we discussed the bill, I had the opportunity to develop the amounts per wage, how much the wage will increase for every worker. SYRIZA didn't vote for it. And I am referring to SYRIZA, because under the false pretext that OAED's revenues will be reduced, he said, 'no, I do not vote for the increase in wages to one million nine hundred and eighty thousand workers'. And today in the budget one should make a self-critic because you have fallen into this mistake! I read from page 121 of the budget: '818 000 000 will be lost by the OAED from reducing insurance contributions'. Will he take it? Sure. I am rereading you from page 121: 'EUR 571 million will be received by OAED from the state budget' to fill the gap that you said and get 244.800,000 directly from EFKA, not through OAED, for the rest of the section. So there's not even a cent missing from the OAED! And yet you did not vote for the wage increases for workers, in two million, starting from January 1, 2021. That's the reality. Ladies and gentlemen, as Minister of Labour I can assure you that we will do both in 2021 and for as long as it is possible to support the workers, the weak, the unemployed. We did it in 2020. We'll do it in 2021. We believe that, in overcoming the crisis, Greece will be an example, the development model throughout Europe. Through this growth and the evacuation that there will be, there will be jobs, there will be great changes in the economy, which will benefit the people themselves, Greece which we all want the next day to be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u126	Mr Loverdo, you are a parliamentary representative, you have asked for two minutes for an intervention. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Minister for Labour and Social Security, I know very well what chair you are sitting on. And in the question of the Communist Party a few days ago, I had spoken as a Parliamentary Representative, and I had stressed that in many cases what the Minister of Labour inherited as a Minister of Labour, and concerning the country's overall economic situation, is considered to be too many of the work of the Minister of Labour and criticize him as to his fault. The Minister for Labour welcomes the problems and we always look to see whether he can regulate them as best he can his problems and ask for solutions. I would like to insist on something we had discussed at the opportunity of the question of the Communist Party and you have given me an answer which I have looked for. No one has doubts about what you have received from the pensions of Mr and Mr Vice-Presidents. Nobody! In this Chamber together we criticised Mr Katrugalo and Mrs Ahtsoglou. Nobody blames you for that. But I can ask you how, while running the Ministry from a hundred and twenty-five thousand outstanding basic pensions, now it's close to seventy-five thousand and the subsidiary, from the eighty-three thousand, we're close to the hundred-five thousand today. I want to talk to the evidence a month ago, because last month's evidence, as I have it, I don't believe it. I'm telling you the evidence until a month ago. I would ask you very much in this Chamber, in order to facilitate both the government and opposition, to make the figures clear. Your colleague next door, Mr. Stakoras, is constantly bringing tables, constantly providing evidence. It enables us to study them, to try to have a common basis, to make criticism credible. When we're mocking - we're mocking it up, I'm not saying it for you - when there's no common basis in numbers, there can be no political discussion of decent and serious. I have this lead. I'll give it to you. Please for your comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u128	Mr Ragosizis, you have also called for the floor as a parliamentary representative. Here you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u129	Mr Brutsi, if they could hear yesterday's and today's sitting, i.e. if they listened to Mr Stavoura and you today, I think they would react with two words: 'You do not exist'. These would be the words that would feel the need to come out of their mouths. Because you must have crossed every limit, I think. Can anyone talk about courage and competitivity? You're talking about good policies at work, about raising wages, and you're being heard by a society, but you're being heard by scientists, young first-year students. You say this to a society that is bounced in the recession by at least 10%! And you are talking either yesterday about increasing workers' rights today or about proper policies at work or raising wages! Honestly, I will be the first, Mr Stavoura, to sign, if you take responsibility for everything you said yesterday and Mr Brutsis have said today, to submit it to you for the Nobel Economics Nobel Prize. I will be the first to sign such a request! Because you must have found the magical solution that economic science does not know, no society in the world knows! Are you going up to this step with a 10% recession, to say that employment has increased and to say that wages have also increased? I mean, it's what I told you at the beginning: There is no! Mr Brutsi, because you have said a lot about a lot, which corresponds to the level of a competent Director of the Ministry of Labour, is there currently in progress in the country or is there not this extensive scheme of distance work? There is. What is the legislative regime governing this new reality, Mr Brutsi? There is no such thing, although you had announced it, although every time we asked you the question, you said: 'We will bring the bill, we will bring the bill'. There is, therefore, a limit to both courage and irritability. You're talking to a country that's dipping in the recession by 10%!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u130	Mr Lebanese as Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic has the floor. Mr Raguss, because some did not understand, is a SYRIZA parliamentary representative for today until 15.30. We have received a document from the Group of the European People's Party. Here, Mr Levane, you have the floor for two minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u131	Yes, Mr President, just for a minute. I wanted to say that the reason that was emitted by Mr Ragosi - and we hear him yesterday and today by the SYRIZA executives - is identical. You have found some words, you repeat them, you are not taking part at all in the debate that the Greek people are watching in this terrible situation. Your word is degraded, it's a whack speech. You're talking, talking, and you're not saying anything. You do not answer, when both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour give you information, and you come and blame, you are struggling, you are trying to nurture the government in ways that you do not understand a single child in elementary school, with arguments for a loot, in fact without arguments, and you do not come to answer. He told you at the end of his speech that you did not vote for the increase in the wages of about two million Greek officials. You said then that you did not vote for it because I was supposed to reduce the OAS budget. If you have not read it - which most of you have not read the budget text - let the Minister refer to this page, the village that says that there is not a single euro in the OAED budget. Today will you apologise to these two million Greeks for not voting for the increase in their wages? Will you apologise for all that you have not voted on, because you believe that by speculating within your populism you will not be voting for votes? The opposite happens, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and Mr Ragosi, who are looking at your cell phone, because you do not have the courage to look us in the eye. You sink every day that passes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Minister of Labour, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor for three minutes to give the answers you think.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, I take the floor, starting with Mr Ragosi, who has been a parliamentary representative for a few hours. It gave me the impression that his position was only for this reason, to show that he is also a parliamentary representative for one hour. Because, Mr Ragosisi, let me tell you that you spoke three minutes and said nothing, except to the Minister of Finance and to me, without saying one thing. With wise approaches, you said nothing. On what I put in there with official information you did not place yourself. But now listen to a few things I will tell you, in reply to Mr Loverdos, who are worthy of SYRIZA's behaviour. I shall begin, Mr Ragosi - and Mr Loverdos at the same time - with what our Parliamentary representative said just now, I said from a step by step to the House that on page 121 your lie is confirmed, because you did not vote for the increase in wages by reducing insurance contributions for workers. Two million workers from 1 January 2021 cumulatively 3.9 reduction, two hundred sixty thousand businesses. I read: “For example: EUR 1,000 wage, EUR 318 for the company, EUR 228 for the employee on an annual basis. Remuneration of EUR 900, EUR 286 for the company, EUR 205 for the worker. EUR 800 wage, EUR 254 for the enterprise, EUR 183 for the worker.’; Isn't that an increase, Mr. Ragossi? These mathematics you teach SYRIZA? Is that how you want to exercise command and make an economic policy? Today, Mr President, it has proved that SYRIZA has said a great lie. Under the pretext not to vote for micro-participatory purposes did not vote for the increase in the wages of workers as from 1 January 2021. In the same way, ladies and gentlemen, for tiny and egotistical reasons, it has not voted for the 100 000 jobs that we have financed with the insurance contributions to the programme. You have not voted, Mr Ragosi - this concerns you as an island - and the abolition of HISPI on the remote islands, which we Aegean islanders have a particular sensitivity. Mr. Loverdo, I'm coming to you. Four and a half years, having the portfolio from Kyriakos Mitsotakis in this Chamber for the Ministry of Labour, I've always been careful with respect. I never said to SYRIZA why he never gave the pensions! - because I knew the weaknesses and I know it's not solved. I denounced SYRIZA for two things: firstly, why did he stop "ITLA", without "ITLA" the matter of the deadlines cannot be resolved. We did it and we'll solve it, we solve it. And secondly, he never gave evidence. That is why, Mr Loverdo, a month ago we took out this text - which will come out every month and come out of our e-ECA services and statistics - which captures the full accuracy for the first time, which no Member will ever need again to ask what the outstanding pensions are. Indeed, Mr Loverdos, I have tabled it there too, you have taken it on your e-mail, because I have you in the 'list mail' and you take it personally from me and they are taken by all the Members and they are made public. If you tell your office, he'll give it to you. So these are now officially published, and the House also adopted them, Mr.Koutentakis, are the official state figures and every month we will know the accuracy, as happened with "HIO" in 2013, that we identified the Greek pensions and learned for the first time the mapping of the insurance on June 1, 2013 as Minister. Mr Loverdos, the pathogenesity of 50 years of time - believe me - cannot be solved by anyone if the "ATLAS" did not come out. Assuming that there was no digital system - which we started now in July - it was impossible to believe that the issue would be resolved. Impossible! With Christos Hallaris, this excellent commander of e-Efka, we started from 2013, 2014. SYRIZA stopped the project - he could have finished it on January 1, 2017 - for his own reasons. We have continued this today and I am pleased to tell you what has a value, because I have heard some misinformation: firstly, with the new insurance law, no pension rights are affected, secondly, no fundamental pension rights are affected and, thirdly, no pension is to be reduced.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u134	And that's what you're closing down with, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u135	These are the two, Mr President, which are important, and I would therefore say that the timetable is running at the same time as the implementation of the 'ATLA' until 31 December 2021. In January, the pilot project for the pensions of disabled and doctors to be completed in March 2021 begins. In September 2021 they are engineers, civil servants and private employees and in December 2021 lawyers, self-employed and journalists and the spectrum is completed. So in 2022, 85% of the workers who are going to appeal to e-DECA to retire will take it digitally. For outstanding pensions you will see provisions that will come here in the House right after the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u136	Please close, Minister, not to other issues that you have not been asked about. Please, shut down!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u137	I asked you about numbers!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u138	In figures, Mr Loverdo - I closed, Mr President, half a minute only - it is twenty-five thousand pensions in the first nine months of 2020 more than 2019, it says so here. Since the tenth of 2020, no data have been presented, I tell you in advance: In the tenth of 2020, in the tenth of 2019, thirty thousand and in lockdown. The curve will turn, Mr. Loverdo. We'll solve the bet. We'll win the pathogen 50 years old. It will be the Mitsotakis Government that will solve the great problem of the country of insurance for outstanding pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u139	We continue with our colleague, Mr Michalis Papadopoulos, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, may I dedicate my presence today to the dear President of the Pharmaceutical Association of the Kozani Prefecture, Takis Dairousis - who, unfortunately, just a few hours ago, left, giving the great battle with the coronary, a dear friend, was a man who actually fought great battles - but also with all the pharmacists, who, like doctors and nurses, are also giving a huge battle. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether there are difficult or easy budgets. What is certain is that this budget is a separate and special budget. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Staikoura, but also the government's financial staff, because he has actually brought such a budget into a difficult period of time and I want to use the last words of his speech, that it is a budget that is realistic, developmentist, friend - investmenting, reforming, flexible and social fairness. Those who've read him can tell. And I say this because we do not usually read the budgets, but we look at all of what concerns us and stop there. But that's the truth. It is a budget which reflects how much we have achieved in 2020 and how much more we can achieve in 2021, although the threats are many and the opportunities are few. It is a budget based on the successful economic policies of the last year, setting realistic targets, and promoting reforms that are distinguished from economic efficiency, especially from social recompense. From opposition I have constantly heard criticism and only criticism of the change in the government's assessments. Unfortunately, it seems once again that it is out of place and time and obviously out of reality. And I am not saying this downright, and I am not saying it just for what we have heard here today. And what we didn't hear today! We've heard before about some kids, as Mr. Raguss called them, who, if they saw, would say, etc. Mr Ragossi, would you like me to tell you what they are saying rather than what those of you who are called children for the four years of SYRIZA and the management that you have done in your policy? You wouldn't want to hear what they're saying! You can be sure of that! I consider this criticism to be a sign of deliberate ignorance and opportunism. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a time-consuming step, with proposals and contradictions. That's how the parties work, that's how democracy works. These days, and in the last eight months, we do not hear from the SYRIZA nor positions nor suggestions. We only hear contradictions. Is there a proposal? For example, if I don't mess up and go to the previous ones, was there even one proposal by the speakers today? Even one? I didn't hear anyone. Critics, critics, critics! Do you know what that's called? Laitative zeroing or zero populism. Pick and take whatever you want from the two. And all this, unlike the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who even within the pandemic, but also with the additional challenges facing Hellenism and our country, the design was not only derailed, as it was heard, but substantial progress was made. Indicatively, it proceeded with flagship investment projects. Not only did he launch, but also carried out aid and viability plans such as ELVO, shipyards, PPC. We need a lot of time to analyse what happened with PPC in the past year. It tabled its new coherent, socially sensitive and national development framework to address high private debt with a view to regulating debt and providing a second opportunity. It incorporated the environmental dimension into the budget by evaluating the footprint of budgetary policies into the priorities for tackling climate change. Ladies and gentlemen, whether you like it or not, it has strengthened the affected natural and legal persons, providing liquidity to businesses. In 2021, the budget that comes apart from tackling the health crisis has key priorities of the Government in developing the economy, strengthening the Armed Forces, supporting vulnerable social groups, supporting health, supporting education by recruiting even greater numbers of permanent and substitute teachers, the effectiveness of migratory flows, the continuation of the migration programme. The measures taken are increasingly being extended, strengthened and enriched, in accordance with the circumstances, which is also reflected in this draft budget to be voted on. But the most important thing in today's debate, ladies and gentlemen, is the time limit laid down in this budget. Greece is in the front of a full development of an aggressive policy by its neighbour Turkey, the most acute since the Turkish invasion of Cyprus, Greece is being managed by the rest of the European partners, Greece is obliged, and so far it succeeds, to defend the life and living standards of all its citizens. All its citizens! In this context, therefore, the extremely unstable environment, the country with the leadership of Mr.Mitsotakis, builds new alliances, strengthens old and long-term ties, exploits natural resources and its geopolitical position with a weapon of international law and primarily strengthens the country budgetaryly, but also productively by designing and starting the implementation of an integrated production model. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'll be out in a minute. The 2021 budget captures and incorporates all the national effort for a strong Greece, with Greek women and Greeks secure, satisfied and national proud. The draft of a fair transition concerning the life of my fellow citizens in Kozani, the Kozani and Florina energy stadium, but also in Western Macedonia in less than twelve months, was planned and discussed by a month-old consultation and the proposals of the actors, such as the district and the municipalities, were taken into account in a large percentage, not all, because it was not possible to do so, on the basis of legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u141	Please close, Mr. Papadopoulos, with one final sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u142	I'm closing, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, according to Plato, "The true ruler has not poured his own interest, but he is in charge of it." What he says, that is, that the true ruler should not look at his own interests, but the citizen. You don't do that. But you have a chance to do this today. Do not be absent from this opportunity and start as required by the conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u143	Please hang up, Mr. Papadopoulos. You should've already shut down when the bell rang your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u144	I'm closing, Mr. President. We expect you to compose ideas and put forward your proposals that we have not seen so far. In this sense, therefore, I am not just voting, but I support the government's budget, because it is a budget that we trust him. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr President, the rest of the President-in-Office...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u145	I beg your pardon, but every minute of each fellow Member's, it means that some colleagues will not be able to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u146	You don't do it to everyone, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u147	Don't blame me, I'm doing it for everyone. Please! I do it to all colleagues and I will.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u148	You don't do all the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u149	I'm in the Chair right now, and I'll do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u150	Not all the President-in-Office do so, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u151	I do not think it would be reasonable for some Members to go beyond the time. So far, we have reached the thirty-fifth speaker with you and there are two hundred other fourteen Members registered. Some of them have the privilege and want to speak in this formal process once a year, in this top process of the five-day budget, which all the Members, all those who remember their course in Parliament, have as a sting. So when each of you is delayed, at the end some will not speak. The reason for seven minutes is now Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Here, Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. How did you manage the economic crisis, gentlemen of the New Democracy? We delivered the economy with a road map and adjusted the debt, we delivered the economy on a recovery course. And to come back just a year, it wasn't even enough for you for a semester to see the first signs of resuscitation of this economic recovery course that we started. Yes, the New Democracy colleagues say, but we had a health crisis. Can't you see what's going on in the world? All right, well, let's see what's going on in the world. What have you achieved, gentlemen of the New Democracy, compared to the world? Greece has the worst material results in the European Union. Or was the economic crisis all over the world and from the countries of Europe Greece? The worst position, that's what you've achieved. And so that I don't blame you, in the third quarter, the quarter that the economy was open, we took steps. We weren't the last ones, we were the last ones. You've brought the second worst material results. The picture, in fact, was supplemented by Mr Brutsi's speech earlier. Really, in 2014 who was Minister of Labour and how much did IKA have? He had nine hundred seventy-five. And then there was an FBI? Who made it? Anyway, it's a failure! Gentlemen of the New Democracy, in the management of the economic crisis you have failed! Yeah, but we had a pandemic. Well, that's great. Let's see what you did in the pandemic. I won't stand in detail as a doctor, because it wouldn't even take me the seven-minute speech to be placed. Let's see the evidence that gives us the perfect picture. First, you proceeded to an unprecedented compression of hospital function. The only threat to health for the Greeks is the coronary and there is no other illness, there is no other health problem! Second, you set up a tracking system that, by increasing cases, collapsed like a card tower. Thirdly, we remember the processing of data very well, the second list, the side list, the subcategory and all that were not able to hide that we basically had a subordinate to your micropolitical purposes to read the data. You failed, gentlemen, in the management of the pandemic. You call it success. The only success with which I may compare is the last summit, the one from September you said that it would make decisions that would "bite" Turkey's illegal behaviour. The only thing that has been bitten by the last session's decisions is the delusion of those who have them for their role under the German boots of the Union. The European Union cannot secure its own borders. It is impossible to establish basic elements and basic rights of its Member States. The pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, actually comes to show to the surface our health difference. And since I like it, I prefer politics - with capital - and I despise, I despise - let the expression - micro-policy, I will stand in the heart of the matter. We're with the public health system, you're with the increase of the vital space of the private sector. You wanted permanent reinforcement of the public health system and proceeded with recruitment with contracts for a few months to get through. We have organised fifteen thousand permanent recruitments, which Mr Mitsotakis stopped and just the day before yesterday, under the popular pressure, spoke of a few dozen monolithies of these doctors - only doctors - working at the ICUs. So the health budget is coming. We in the leap years, from 4% of the GDP that we received from you in 2015, took it to 5.1%, with a view to doing what will support the health system, reaching the European average at 7%. The budget here is also challenging. It's 572 million euros down to 2021. Even the financial support given to the Easter to health care is not foreseen for the year 2021, as if the pandemic were over. Support for EEAS, the National Health Services Agency, is down by over 50%. EUR 608 million is made of EUR 300 million. If, gentlemen, you are failed in the management of the pandemic, for the public health system you are dangerous. The budget has a clear class mark. It has the ideological and political sign of the New Democracy party that brings it. We are talking about a party that has a history and a route in Greece, a route on which it has given too much to the few and very little to the many. You continue entangled in your ideas to insist on this neoliberal political proposal. It's the proposal that bankrupt the country. It's the proposal that he couldn't get the country out of bankruptcy. It is the proposal that, however much the deforming mirrors of your market and purchased communication coverage make it, leads to a new economic disaster. However, ladies and gentlemen - and I am ending with this - society, the economy and the country cannot wait. It's time to change course. It's time to change the Roots. Three pillars: first, the development of work, the right to work and respect for labour rights. Secondly, strengthening the social state, public health and public education. Thirdly, the deepening of democracy. These are the pillars - and for my colleague who said he did not hear proposals - on which we are consulting, planning and organising. Here is the soul of the proposal put forward to society for the second time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, too, for keeping time. We continue with the Member of the New Democracy, Mr. Yannis Economou, for seven minutes. Here, Mr. Economou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last ten months, the country has been moving within a very sad triangle. One side of the triangle is lasting and growing Turkish provocation. The second side is the pandemic that we experience its most acute phase. The third is the economic consequences of this pandemic. It is true that, because of the health crisis in particular, we are experiencing a period of new features and particularly painful, multiple painful consequences. Faced with this situation, our government was not caught in paralytic uncertainties, but faced the emergency with brave measures. We gave for the protection of society and the economy in 2020 over 24 billion euros, at the same time as we planned, implemented, voted for policies that are facing severe pathogens of Greek society, but also the endemic socio-political impotence, if you want, of our country to implement, implement mature reforms that will enable it to stop dragging. For example, I mention the reduction of taxation, the policies that strengthened births and new parents, reforms on licensing procedures, environmental policies, the big leap in the digital transformation of the state and so many others. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, these ten months Greece has been standing up, even without the support we would have wanted and expected from our partners, with wisdom and determination to meet the challenges of Ankara. We are pursuing a policy based on multi-faceted preparation, diplomatic and operational, a policy which enables us because of this tactic and not improvisation at the moment not to be caught in painful national dilemmas, as has unfortunately been done many times in the past and to extend the country's range to maritime zones through international agreements, in which we are effectively exercising our sovereign rights for the first time. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 budget could only be governed by a basic idea. What's the idea? To keep the Greek society upright and ready to fight the Greek economy for the period after COVID. This budget focuses on achieving our objectives in a way that is fully compatible, which fully reflects what New Democracy is, because as far as possible, in 2021, for as long as necessary, the state will do its part. The State will grant wages and insurance contributions. The State will support the areas affected. The state will support public health and public education and will, of course, ensure that every citizen who wants it reaches the home of every Greek, every citizen who wants it, the vaccine. At the same time no new taxes are imposed, no new charges. On the other hand, the budget has been calculated, it plans to continue the reduction of burdens both for employees and for entrepreneurship as a whole. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 budget is fully compatible with what we are, a patriotist parade, with deep roots in wide folk, a modern, European, liberal centre right, which is integrated and evolving without mutating. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget cannot be dismantled from the priorities of the National Recovery Plan, a unique opportunity for Greece to do what it has failed to achieve either with the cheap loans of EMU or the violent coercives of the economic crisis. What do you mean? Finally, to have a sustainable, competitive productive model. I shall refer only to two main demands of this pursuit, which concern both his homeland and Phthiotida, but also my generation and younger people from my generation. The first is the issue of production. Here's what the situation is and the data are available today, which I will be tabling later in the Minutes from ELSTAT. In the five-year period 2015-2019 in the balance of imports and exports, in the milk and milk products category, in the meat category, in the food and live animals category, we are in deficit. Deficient everywhere. In fact, 30% of imports relate to meat, milk and milk products, with a figure of EUR 9 billion, which is about the same period as the first pillar of the direct payments of the common agricultural policy. In 2015-2019 from four European countries - I will also present this item in the Minutes - we have paid for imports of cars, which have no trace of car industry in the country - around EUR 3.5 billion. From these same countries we paid for the introduction of EUR 4 billion of meat and dairy products. And finally, in 2018 compared to 2008, instead of multiplying farmland, four and a half thousand acres have been lost in our country and in the last two years, unfortunately, the situation has deteriorated. Of these, ladies and gentlemen, one can see that for a number of reasons - food security, balanced development of the region, demographic, social cohesion, extroversion of the economy - it is essential that we go to a spectacular increase in production in the primary sector and, indeed, in internationally marketed products. The second is the question of unemployment. Obviously, steps are taken, but it is a top and very important issue. The high unemployment in Greece has a record duration - ladies and gentlemen. It began its glorious rise a decade ago, peaked in 2013 and today, seven years later, it is still high, close to 17%. Knowledge is thus destroyed, skills are destroyed, a whole generation is at risk of being lost. But that's not all. It's not just the question of unemployment. It is also the question that in our country we have low participation in the labour market, key parts of the working population, women and young people. Also, unfortunately, very large numbers of workers are paid with the minimum wage or very close to the minimum wage. If, however, our objective is an internationally competitive economy, where the low cost of production rates will not be used as an advantage, but will create welfare conditions for businesses and workers, then we must declare war and unemployment and low wages for wage earners. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] First of all, ladies and gentlemen, we must, taking advantage of this unique financial opportunity that we have before us in the coming years, clarify - to achieve the objectives I mentioned previously in production and work - what should be the role of policy in the social and economic organisation of the country, which institutions, what public policies, which entrepreneurship culture will bring us together. And that, you know, is not about a government, but about a generation, about future generations, about the formation of a perception that will lead us to compare and distinguish between the best and not to recycle complaints, accusations and slogans about the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u155	Finish, Mr. Economou. Your time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u156	I shall conclude, Mr President. This is the way, so that the past does not devour the future. This is the way in which this budget is serving and that is why we are voting in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u157	Thank you very much. I would ask that Stepma be prepared sanitaryly in order for the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Liana Kanelli, to speak for seven minutes. Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is no coincidence that the Minister began very proudly because he gave the funeral expenses, which were pending. It's no accident at all. The whole budget is a funeral, and he and the previous one and the previous one are. It's a funeral for the workers. Don't try to present him otherwise. I have heard nearly 95% of speakers this morning and most of the government's Members insist that you say something that is not in place, that it is a fair budget. In a capitalist state, with a competition from both the previous government and the current government to deal with a competition, a run, in an expansive centralised approach to the economy in pandemic conditions, you come and tell us that it is a fair budget, that this capitalist budget is a fair one. Since when is capitalism fair, for his budget to be fair? Is there a fair capitalism? Are we kidding in here when we talk about the budget and we come and we'll talk about this, hidden behind numbers? On the one hand, you have subsidies to businesses and capital, and on the other, you are raising public debt, from 180% to 208%. I won't eat time to talk to numbers. My comrades said it much better than I did before, and they analyzed it. But let's see one of the people I know and subsidized, and there's also a veil, what he's done just as soon as you subsidized him. Thirty-five has fired, and in forty-six the contracts have ended and they have not been renewed. Calculate thirty-five to forty-six, see how many unemployed are left. Charming subsidisation! Masterpiece! Amazing justice! I hear many times interesting, burn for the disabled, for the disabled. We're talking about fourteen schools. On what criteria? There are regions that stay without special schools throughout the country. Fourteen. To this day, what have you invested there? Frago! None of you before! You got personal. And who told you that it was enough? And where's the specialist? Oh, we're in a digital era! What is digital age and innovation? The sucker's worked. It is the pit for the crying and sighing of the peoples, which unfortunately - but now, what is scaring you - abandoned the idea that without a struggle and without a central planning, nothing is done. What are you gonna do? The central design of socialism will replace him, do you think, with digitisation? I'm trying to tell all the tons of what you did. Did you get a communist ideology in the digitized liberal quinine period and its version in the 21st century because of pandemic? So you're fucking with us? The recession came, it was visible, and it was global, as globalized as both capitalism and capital and the war of multinationals are. The same is happening today in both the vaccine and the medicine and everywhere. So, there, why don't you talk? How can you talk? It's called raw. "PFIZER" says it raw and all the companies say it raw: they'll get a vaccine first those who've paid a big deposit. So science and innovation are a function of capital. Whoever has it will get a first vaccine. That is the essence of things. In our country, however, with innovation, what are you doing? Take innovation and hide behind innovation to buy cheap scientific potential, which then acquires this employment relationship that everyone knows: quarterly, five-month contracts, a work contract here, eight months there, three months below and that's all. So are you coming and raising what about this budget? Aren't you tired of breaking this system's virginity? But since this morning, you've been breaking! I'm sorry to be. How can I say it? - cheap sexist on this subject, but for the first time you have kept this issue, first time you have kept that issue, first time you have kept that issue. What are all these realms you've got? Where is he? Where did you find a happiness floating, right now, in the management of the pandemic? The management of the pandemic doesn't have a class mark? Isn't it related to the production relationships? Take a look around you. The measures taken in this House - tell me where to take me and lift me - in which industry are they being implemented? When did you even have to order someone? What packing room? Which ginning room? What canvass? What industry? What craftsmanship? Where are the measures that we are implementing here, so that we can be safe? We're doing a test, we've got plaques, we've got those, we've got the ones that come up with a miserable man, or a lady, and he cleans every three or a little bit, so we can get up and talk. There's no sign, not even one inch of these measures. And there's no control over them anywhere in any workplace mass. And that's where the transmission is going. And you sit down and talk about people, who are the wonder of teleworking. On the day that you get up on black computer screen, from children to old people, "work", and where you can't collect either the value or the added value of overworking, the poor, free and unpaid, that you've baptized telework, then we'll see where things go. Because you're setting up a platform to give pensions. What pensions? You don't have to give them in a minute. If you give them to a minute, and they're rusted and they're not enough to live, what does it matter if you give them in a minute? He's going to get a minute earlier when he's going to see what he's getting. You've increased, what have you been up to? Did you come back any of this? Let me tell you what you've come back. Even in your foreign policy, you have turned back at the worst times, the ones for which only the KKE can be proud, which was on the way with the Greek people. And he sent children and youth, not to say "what you're doing there", and "Why don't you do it like that," but to resist the country's passage from allied foreign armies equipped. Repeat Albright, the one, the other, in the Balkans, who have broken it up to the measures of your American and European allies, and today they go back to bring them back, with new wars, with new funds and new children, who want to send to the new geostrategic, reformist wars. The difference is that we are in a crisis, is the truth, almost a hundred years that has not appeared worldwide, but this solution is how will you find it? You will find it in the same way that you want to make a new agreement like this and in such a way that the job disappears. That is why, for all the reasons - and here is something - subsidies to capital, businesses and, on the other hand, workers and workers. The labour market. You think in the 21st century you will continue to buy and sell workers and workers as canned. You're laughed. You see it's coming, and that's why you're making the saviors. Until someone gets a pass that saviors are probably like television pastors in the American media system that they're wearing salvation, it won't be long. And when he gets it, the TVs won't break. Trust me. They'll change the results from the polls and the syndicates to the pavement and prisons. We are voting against such a budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u159	Please prepare the Step in order to get the floor for the Member of the New Democracy Mr. Vassiliou - Nikolaos Ypsilantis for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget 2021 coincides with the culmination of a sad situation for humanity and of course also for our country. The number of people suffering and being beaten by the subtle CIVID virus -19 is the tragic component of pandemic, which could not leave any politics and any government and, of course, none of us indifferent. The result of this situation is the collapse, under pressure, of health systems throughout the world and, of course, the negative effects on the economy, events that are not known for the whole world, but also for states which are economically strong and with structures that are fully staffed and equipped. In this respect, we have added to our country and to the well-known facts, which have to do with our relations with Turkey and with our national security, and thus with immediate decisions to strengthen our Armed Forces, immigration and, of course, the fact that we have been called upon to deal with these crises more vulnerable than Europe's average, and health and economic. This has to do with the structural features of society and the economy and what the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has received. With this in Parliament, the country's budget is being discussed, a debate which clearly cannot ignore the dramatic context that is taking place and which in no way leads to the assessment of the behaviour and actions of the political forces in the face of these unprecedented and extremely difficult situations. As far as the government is concerned, no one can charge it with regulating the aggression of the virus, of course, and the unpleasant results of its presence, but judge the way it handled and handled the situation and its economic consequences, and, above all, the Preservatives, the proposals it brings to deal with the crisis and its political behaviour. And if, on the part of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, it is possible to say that the manipulations have exceeded all expectations, which are recognized internationally and also by the people's responses and major demographic differences, both in health and in the economic part of the problem, one cannot claim anything similar to the Civic Opposition. In addition to the fact of inertia and silence in the first period of pandemic, which many with civil courtesy - may be - take as a co-operation, in the second and most powerful wave of pandemic and while the reflexes of our state have reached high levels, with the multipliering of MSFs, aid with staff of the HSF, the improvement of the functioning of the state, digital and institutional, the strengthening of the affected groups and support for entrepreneurship and labour - I quote, for example, that in the Dodecanese for inhibitors was allocated in March - November 2020, Minister, a total of EUR 35,546.258, for donations of Easter 44.333.214 euros and monologues in tourism 36.773.166 euros and around 1.730.000 euros for 'ACT', and, Minister of State, see what can we continue to do so far as we can address the unstruth of antiquality and the reliefst of the anti-confidential use of anti-confidigitalism of the anti-actual exploitation of the anti-actual exploitation of the anti-activity of the anti-activity of the anti-activity of the anti-activilus. With regard to the budget to be adopted, his reading leads us to the conclusion that it sets realistic targets and is based on the economic achievements that were prior to the year especially before the pandemic took place, aimed at overcoming the crisis, with the economy in operation and society standing up. It takes into account the unprecedented, difficult and unpredictable circumstances, setting targets realistic, which is also recognised by the relevant European institutions, with a broad consensus in the relevant reports, despite the macroeconomic implications of the second wave of the pandemic, carried over to 2021, and as revealed by the 5 billion less in our funds, with the responsibility of SYRIZA. With the budget being voted, the basis is in place for the state to be able to speed up its stepping up and support private activity both during the pandemic and when this dramatic and dreadful period ends for the inhabited world, ensuring that we return to a satisfactory rate of growth, creating in the first phase a field of non-inflationary taxes, but also further creation of a financial space for a more permanent reduction in taxes and levies, which the economy needs, without moving them into tomorrow because of the pandemic. I would like to quote here once again the need to restore the tragic injustice that took place on SYRIZA by abolishing the reduced VAT rates on the islands. I will say it again: the tragic injustice against our islands, which has been done by SYRIZA. It is not possible for Kassos and Agathonisi to have a VAT rate of 24%. It is absurd and unfair when we islanders pay huge transport in relation to the rest of the country and when the whole of our island economy is being burdened. And here there is no differentiation either about Rhodes or about Kastelorizo. I close the important, in my opinion, by pointing out the developmental appearance of the budget under discussion, while ensuring social cohesion and strengthening employment and emphasising green growth. By the way, Mr Secretary, I welcome the first major investment of Volkswagen in Astypalea, digital transformation and technological upgrading of infrastructure and support for the region. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The Dodecanese Prefecture, with its multi-species specificity, its significant contribution to national GDP due to tourism - I am ending, Mr President - is entitled for many decades to save resources due to the important infrastructures that exist from Italy, a significant share and the inclusion of such interventions, either through the Recovery Fund, where the Prime Minister has significantly arrested, or under the other programmes of the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u161	Close with your last paragraph, Mr. President. Don't start a new chapter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u162	I'm closing, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in discussing the budget of our State for 2021 I cannot bypass and refer to Mrs Lagard's hopeful message at the last meeting of the European Central Bank that decided to increase the special programme. With these thoughts, ladies and gentlemen, I am giving my consent to the budget and voting for the budget for 2021 as a budget of hope, debt in today's country and in its perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u163	You spoke more than eight minutes. Please prepare the Step to get SYRIZA MEP Mr Marios Katsis, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u164	Who's going to talk next, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u165	Then Mr.Ioannis Andrianos, Member of the New Democracy, will be followed by the Minister of Culture, Mr. Mendoni. Here, Mr. Katsi, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember - we all remember - last year's debate on the first budget of the Government of New Democracy. I remember the promises of strong growth, for many better jobs, for investments, for the middle-class that will eat with gold spoons and, of course, promises in national for proud negotiations in Greek-Turkish. And then what happened? Radical decline in income, increase in unemployment, increase in business locks, and total retreat to national issues where we go from defeat to defeat. And I see after a year that you're imprisoned. You're still making things look good. I note, and I note that the government has shared with the regional MPs in particular, and the figures which say how much money was made from the repayable advance and present in their regions as Members of Parliament of the Kaleheartas. Why don't you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, tell your Members and your MPs that these are loans that companies and citizens will be asked to pay for? Didn't you hear Mr. Dogsky saying that every euro you get will we get it back to a future tax? Either you don't care what the average citizen experiences or you're so out of society that from your Versailles hell for the social majority you don't even see. And I hear the New Democracy MPs saying, "What can we do? The same things happen all over the world. Greece is doing better than the other countries." The New Democracy MPs celebrate. The pandemic is indeed a very difficult global treaty. But have all the countries been affected? Oh, no. In the sanitary piece, despite the fact that you had eight months to prepare for the second wave, you have failed miserably, with tragic consequences and a loss of almost three thousand fellow citizens in the last month. I would point out, for example, that from March to today when the world average is in the two hundred four dead per million, in Greece we are at three hundred and thirty-four dead per million, while the'slap' on a daily basis increases against us. For this tragic failure, for media stacked citizens, for the twenty-seven students per class, for the "open" of tourism without a test, for the fewer workers in the ESS, for the extremely expensive non-prescribed tests, for the dead outside PTH, the Prime Minister took no responsibility, but continued to blame the citizens for irresponsibleness and carelessness, above the bike saddle from Parnitha. And today you are bringing a budget that reduces the health expenditure of EUR 572 million. So cynical, so ideoleptic! Did you do better in the economy? Greece has the biggest recession in the third quarter of the year throughout the European Union: 11.7% of the recession in Greece, 4.3% of the average in the European Union. So the same happens in all the countries? In Greece public debt goes to 212% of GDP. Twenty-sixth in Europe's '27' is Greece in the loss of income within the crisis, according to EUROSTAT. In Greece, in Kyriakos Mitsotakis, four million four hundred thousand fellow citizens owe us to the public. And you predict increased tax revenues in the state budget by 3.5 billion? Where? Businesses, free professionals, farmers, all they've done in the past year is to accumulate debts. How will they repay these debts? Do you know where red loans will arrive from the suspensions? You probably know that, so you also brought the bill with the new bankruptcy you voted for, to grab the homes and the lives of our weakest fellow citizens in favour of the powerful. These private interests are served by all your legislative interventions. In conclusion, the issue of pandemic can be collective for our planet, but for Greece the fundamental failure to deal with is a matter of individual responsibility for Mr Mitsotakis. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, a reference to the issues of the Ministry of Digital Governance as much reference is made to the funds for the Recovery Fund. The fact is that during the pandemic period the need for the digital transformation of the state and the economy became widely known to the citizens. The crucial thing is that the digital transition is to be inclusive and not to create new kinds of inequalities, to pass all citizens into the new era and not to be left behind and to include small and medium-sized enterprises, newly-born and domestic research. This is also the difference between the neoliberal view of New Democracy and the left-wing and progressive proposal that we have. Get two examples of neoliberal analgesia. First example: the government of the 'newly-flavoured' opened the shops by click away when with GSE elements only 17% of enterprises, i.e. only large chains, can e-shop and e-commerce services. What have you been doing so long and you haven't made programs for the digital transformation of businesses? Why have you not taken care of the creation of a central digital trade platform under the auspices of the chambers? You didn't care. Your aim, as you say in the Pissaridis report, is to close many small and medium-sized enterprises and to stay only the small and the small ones. The second example of analgesia of the globes is that the 'neutral excellent people', therefore, left our children without universal access to telecommunications. Many children and households don't have access to the internet, they don't have a computer to connect, but even when they're connected, the private platform that you've clearly recruited falls. Why didn't you take care of these seven to eight months to build a public television platform, to upgrade the entire school network through SYZIZIS II published by the SYRIZA government? The Government, the Ministry of Digital Governance, had in their hands the National Digital Strategy 2016-2020 and many "current" projects and you have not succeeded in completing these or new horizontally or sectorally. Recently, the Digital Transformation Bible, which includes four hundred works, sixteen months after and three times after you legislated it, came out. I very much doubt that, with your performance so far, the government will be able to make effective use of so many funds. But everything will be judged by the result. We will make a public submission next time on our own proposal to make use of the Recovery Fund and on the digital transition. Describe the main axes. They are infrastructure, new generation networks and broadband with the expansion of the UV networks up to the "Home for All", digitisation of public administration and simplification of procedures, digital transition of operations to survive in the new era, digital skills, removal of inequalities and exclusions for equal access for citizens by creating stable structures for the production of modern and educational quality programs rather than Skoil Helico, Mr Brutsis. And, of course, with the protection of personal data and security in public data that are the new gold in today's era. The country needs a new production model based on innovation, high technology, but without disintegrated labour rights. The budget is a revival of the green statistics in terms of its forecasts as the previous one. Your collapse will make such a frustration, as soon as fear retreats from Greek health society and then you will find that neither propaganda nor cruel repression will save you. I am voting against the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u167	Please, get the Step ready. I will call for the floor for seven minutes, the Member of the New Democracy Mr. Ioannis Andrianos. Mr. Adriane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this year's budget has the peculiarity, as we all know, that it has been drafted and debated these days under the extraordinary pandemic treaty. A treaty which has a strong and global impact on the effectiveness of state mechanisms, on the flexibility of national economies, on the durability of social cohesion, on the ability of governments to face this multi-faceted crisis and, of course, on the next day of recovery and development. The pandemic crisis ensembled in our country at the very moment when we started again, after a very hard adventure of the last decade, to take deep breaths, optimizing the future. It is clear, therefore, that the pandemic has hit us both in health and in economic and social terms. But with the government's responsible manipulations and thanks to the enthusiasm of the whole society, from doctors and nurses to teachers, from free professionals to farmers, from retired people to students and students, we stand up. And today we see with confidence the light at the end of the tunnel, especially as vaccination comes closer. Of course, we had to move into uncharted waters, like the rest of the planet. Of course, continuous strategic adjustments were needed. It took the continuous enrichment of public policies. Of course, hard-built structures and practices have been tried. Of course, the course was and remains difficult. But we stood up and proved first of all to ourselves two very important things. Firstly, that we can manage as a society effectively a crisis that is so urgent and complex. Secondly, that we can do this without sacrificing social justice and sensitivity to those who are most affected, without jeopardising our national laws and interests and the long-term prospects of the country. I note that only in Argolis during the pandemic crisis were EUR 13.4 million in financial assistance for workers, 30 million from the Guarantee Fund, 17.7 million in the framework of the repayable advance, 10.6 million in special-purpose allowances for workers under a comprehensive programme of measures that is expected for the whole country to reach EUR 24 billion in 2020. I would like to point out the government's readiness to constantly update the list of beneficiaries, but also to take specific measures where necessary, such as in the case of sellers in public markets outside the prefecture of residence and the compensation of EUR 30 per acreage for the main producers of oilseeds or the EUR 4 per animal for farmers or the compensation granted to growers of forests. In the context of this preparedness, the support measures for farmers who see their incomes should be continuously enriched, of course, not to cover crop costs, free professionals and employees, to tourism and to focus, to small and medium-sized enterprises and to shops that have been closed with the quarantine more than they are unable to pay and 60% of the rent or to young professionals who have just opened the quarantine. These all must, of course, be supported. It is particularly important that, at the same time, not only is it increasing - as is reasonable - the targeted expenditure on health and education, but also maintaining tax reliefs and contributions to households and businesses established before the pandemic. As also, it is particularly important that the pandemic crisis does not disturb the planning for the effective reinforcement of our Armed Forces at a time when Turkey's provocation and reformation impose vigilance and preparedness. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic crisis has given rise to a number of valuable conclusions. Firstly, that we need a state as effective and flexible as possible, which is a citizen-friendly and arrogant to its needs. It is important that the large digital upgrading of the state mechanism was not merely extended in the midst of a pandemic, but on the contrary accelerated. It is also of particular importance that the Prime Minister's commitment to the effective support of the ESS for a new health system modern, corresponding to the enormous supply and sacrifice of medical, nursing and other personnel at this time of the pandemic is very important. Secondly, we need as a society reserve to enable us to cope successfully with such exceptional circumstances. These reserves can only come from strong growth, from new investments from the creation of many good jobs, from the implementation of the small and large investments needed by the country, from the implementation of reforms leading to the new development model that fits our country. It is important that the strategic planning of the government, the contract that we have signed in elections with the citizens, has not only been derailed by the circumstances, but continues to be implemented with unsatisfactory dynamics. The third conclusion is that the effectiveness of State interventions has as a prerequisite a strong capital of social confidence. And this confidence in turn depends on the government's ability to honour its promises and produce tangible results for citizens' lives. So if the government today enjoys high rates of confidence in the midst of this harsh trial, if today both the citizens and the markets, our institutions and our partners unanimously confirm that we are moving in the right direction, this is due to the seriousness and responsibility both in the short term of the pandemic and in the preparation of the next day. With the strong conviction, therefore, that this budget clearly records the road map that the country needs to leave behind and this crisis and to go on self-confidence in the future, in the future of growth and prosperity that Greeks and Greeks deserve, with a sense of responsibility, so I am voting in favour of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Please prepare a sanitary step. I will give the floor to the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mrs Mendoni, for ten minutes. Then Mrs. Abajidis will speak, and Mrs. Skondra will speak. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our readiness to respond to the rapid and subversive changes and challenges that the pandemic brings in many areas is directly linked to the redefinition of our productive model. And this can only be achieved on the basis of knowledge, extroverty, innovation, efficiency, the use of available resources and the effectiveness of the country's comparative advantages; in what the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is investing. Culture has an extremely strong socio-economic dynamic, as it negates and affects almost all aspects of social and productive activity. It is therefore an important factor in the economy and society, as well as in the growth of both. The cultural sector is considered as a distinct economic sector, uses resources, produces products and services, creates income and jobs, attracts and causes investment. It therefore acts as a lever for growth. Our aim is to resilience the sector and strengthen workers and professionals. We are working on structural space reform and dealing with fixed and time-related problems relating to labour relations, education, training, access to financial instruments, intellectual property protection, the promotion of investment projects. In view of the above, our policies concern: ensuring the conditions, economic and organisational, as well as the creation and continuous improvement of the infrastructure and services associated with the protection, accessibility, integrated recruitment and experience of cultural heritage by the general public. Support and strengthening of contemporary artistic creation and creative industry that enrich with new elements and further diversify the above-mentioned chapter. The implementation of appropriate synergies and partnerships to combine this with multiplier effects in achieving smart, sustainable and universal development. The Ministry of Culture and Sport is rapidly implementing many important projects to combine sites and monuments, to create new or to improve existing cultural infrastructures, in the context of integrated and economically viable projects for the development and upgrading of urban and suburban areas. For example: the operation of the National Museum of Contemporary Art after years of announcements. The task of restoring and highlighting the former Vasilikos Tatoi, which was put into implementation for the first time by a specific project, based on feasibility and viability studies. The work of the National Archaeological Museum, its collaboration with the National Technical University of Athens, its association with Acropolis and the renewal of the wider region, which is progressing according to its timetable, with the completion of the necessary precursor studies and the institutional shielding of this major and innovative work for the capital. The National Gallery, which is finally completed, so that the inactive construction site that we received in the heart of Athens will give its place in a modern international gallery. This includes cultural infrastructures through the restoration and performance of new use in old abandoned buildings, upgrading works for the services provided in archaeological sites, with a leading example of the works in the Acropolis, lighting and, above all, accessibility for all visitors. And a comment on topicality. For the flooding phenomena in the Acropolis, those who stopped works and plumbing studies in 2015 must apologize for doing absolutely nothing to their five-year government. Now that for the first time there are complete plumbing studies and rock drainage projects, they denounce those who implement them. It's so frustrated because a project is being produced that they can't hide it. Over the last eighteen months, we have made use of the possibilities of cultural development programmes, the budget of which exceeds EUR 56 million, while the projects carried out by the Archaeological Office throughout the country in projects from third countries exceed EUR 40 million. In the current NRP 2014-2020 we increased by 67% the number of integrated projects throughout the five-year SYRIZA, 45% of their budget, 67% of legal commitments and 99% of expenditure, that is, we doubled expenditure. These projects are implemented throughout the country and contribute to the employment of numerous scientific and technical staff in the midst of a pandemic crisis, while the supplies of materials and services benefit from dozens of small and medium-sized enterprises throughout the territory. We have stepped up our efforts to implement the structural reforms that provide solutions to the constant problems of modern culture and creative industry, starting with the necessary mapping of labour relations and workers through the creation of a register of cultural professions in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and the settlement of dating intellectual property protection issues. We have established, the long-awaited 'dynamic blocking', as well as protection measures for illegal live audiovisual broadcasting of cultural or sport events, digital training and access to financial tools to promote the resilience and competitiveness of professionals in the industry. In addition to the horizontal government measures, which were already taken in March to support workers and, obviously, workers in the cultural sector during the pandemic, the Ministry of Culture and Sport planned in March and started implementing a total budget of approximately EUR 30 million in April. Enterprises, natural persons and self-employed in the fields of cinema, theatre, dance, book, visuals, video games and design were awarded, strengthening AMKE and cultural institutions. In addition, in cultural organisations in 2020, grants doubled. The EUR 52.5 million of regular grants was added EUR 51 million of emergency aid to cope with the crisis. We have founded with Law 4708/2020 the "Acropole Across" to modernise, support and strengthen the cultural and creative sector and professionals in the sector by providing technical support and digital training in the process of demanding and exploiting economic tools, opportunities and opportunities offered through national and European programmes and networks. We established the Agency for the Development and Management of Cultural Resources with clear development features aimed at upgrading the quality of the services provided to visitors of archaeological sites and museums, implementing an effective sales policy and exploiting the property of the Ministry of Culture and Sport in a productive and beneficial way. We are planning and implementing value-added and extroverted actions in synergy with entities from the public, local government and the private sector. For example, I mention the joint initiative on the operation of the diving park in the first visit to the archaeological site of the Alonissos, which lays the foundations for the country's potential opening up to the rising diving tourism sector. I note the cooperation of the Ministry of Culture and Sport with "MICROSOT", a cooperation in the form of a cultural sponsorship involving the provision of virtual tour using mixed and increased reality technologies and the international promotion of Ancient Olympia as a focal point of olympism, a project estimated at EUR 3.5 million. On this occasion, I stress the catalytic contribution of private donors and donors, on the basis of which immediate needs have been addressed and which have been resolved with time-consuming problems. A characteristic example is that of accessibility in the Acropolis, while new stimulus of emblematic works that have been left in stature for a long time, such as Tatoi. To conclude, I stress once again that culture is a social, public good. At the same time, however, it is also a public capital with enormous growth value and dynamics. The lack of this capital due to obsolete perceptions is, in particular, at the present juncture, not merely unforgivable inertia, but criminal negligence, which deprives society and the country of valuable resources and leads rapidly to depreciation and the extinction of unique cultural non-renewable resources. I assure you of our will and determination not to allow that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Mr Skourletis has asked for the floor for two minutes as a Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. You have the floor, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, you have spoken about the readiness of your Government in the conditions of pandemic and the intention to support professionals in the cultural field. And I ask you something we had asked you a few days ago here, in this Chamber, when you had brought a bill from your Ministry: how do you mean it? If this support is to be studied, why should this not be included in the budget? Why did we not accept our very specific, processed proposals concerning the commitment of radio stations to play Greek repertoire and thus, through there, have rights for the respective authors? Why have you not accepted this proposal to strengthen the Agency for the Management of Rights or the proposal for low VAT and digital books? So there is a question about how you mean support and how you implement it. No support, because it's not on your priorities. However, this, which is in your priorities, has been seen in what has become law and has been predicting the Ministry of Culture the dealer of Greek antiquities for 50 years. Is that entrepreneurship? For whose benefit? Not us, though. You know, keep in your hands gold, literally and transportly. Greek hydrocarbons are our ancient ones. A good use could project the country and bring similar resources. The Minister, Mr Brutsi, who is preparing to privatise subsidiary insurance was just there before you. One of the problems of the insurance system is the resources. Why couldn't a place, through a plan to exploit our antiquities, be a new resource for the insurance system? Of course, in order to do all this, it must be understood and not a concept of serving the interests of others in the end. And one last thing about the Acropolis. It happened what happened. I would like to ask you something: these studies which led to the specific ramps, which we - and most of them - were responsible for the flooding phenomena, had taken into account the relevant plumbing studies? What kind of studies are those that are incompatible with what you are supposed to do now and are concerned with hydraulic systems? These are unanswered questions which you should finally answer. And don't tell me about ramps. It wasn't about that. They were runways with a 6% inclination. With a 6% inclination, there's no ramp for AME. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u173	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Gregoriadis had precedented his request, Mr. Loverdos. Mr Claus Gregoriadis has the floor, as a Parliamentary spokesman for Mera25, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u175	Thank you very much, Mr President. I won't need one. Not to tire you too, Minister, repeating the reasonable questions Mr. Skourlet. It's all true for our part. I would just add the following question, which is simple. Why don't you meet the representatives of the people working in the arts? They've been asking you to do this for weeks. You are asked by their entire Greek trade union movement, the "Theme and Acroama". You're being asked by the Greek Actors Association. All the trade unions are asking you to do so. A good start, to show a good intention, is to sit on the same table, you and the two co-legislative ministries, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Economy, in order to show, at least, that you intend to discuss with them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, too. Mr Loverdos has the floor, as a parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u177	Mr President, since last week I have been waiting for a chance to have this debate. And why am I saying, since last week? Because when Mrs Mendoni discussed in plenary the draft law which was being put forward, there was a very interesting debate, but I was not a parliamentary representative, and I spoke through Webex and our voices were not listening to the technicalities that exist. The Minister raises this issue, the parliamentary representative of the Officerial Representation, Mr Skourletis answers, and like Mr Gregoriadis, I am taking the floor to raise this issue in the Chamber, so that we can all be present. The initiative of the Ministry of Culture that our museums can expose the wealth of the findings they have in warehouses and boxes, through agreements, abroad, we praise it. We're taking initiatives, institutional guarantees are in place. He said Mr. Constantopoulos, the opinion of the CAS. Yes, the Minister accepts it, and it's a law now. Mr Papandreou, who took the floor from the Chamber, said our antiquities are our ambassadors. And that's true. Is it better to deceive these antiquities in the underground museums? When I was in charge of these matters and went to Samos and saw what the basement of this museum has - the 2000s - I was shocked. And Greece is full of them. Is it preferable to stay there, or is it preferable to be exposed? To put it out with guarantees, Mr President, the guarantees that my party has proposed and I am proud of that. I call on SYRIZA to see it again, because the sale of waste - Mr. Skourletes has not said it - which has been heard...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u178	Fifty years?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u179	Yeah, why? There were twenty-five plus five years of renewal. That's how it happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u180	Five or five doesn't do when there are closed museums they don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u181	Please, no dialogue between you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u182	Listen, he's right. He says, fifty plus fifty. Oh, no. Twenty-five plus five years with the CSCE, which it delivers its opinion. So there are too many guarantees. But the line and the view to build in every city and four hundred museums and it doesn't come out and defends anyone who wants nothing to happen. I think SYRIZA should think again. Our antiquities are our ambassadors. I underline that. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u183	I would like to give the floor to the Minister, Mrs Mendoni, to respond, in the way she thinks, to the colleagues who raised these issues. Here, Mrs. Mendoni, you have the floor. That's three minutes enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the professionals in the cultural sector - and I say this again, I said this to the topical question, where we were here four and a half hours, and we discussed these issues - were backed up and supported in exactly the same way that the government treated all of the workers. They had all the measures horizontally. In addition, the Ministry of Culture has, as I said a moment ago, drawn up a programme of some 30 million - development measures. As for the amendments tabled by your party, Mr Skourletis, I have said - and I say again - that there are issues which need to be resolved and we are already dealing with them with the appropriate ministries of finance and labour, because what you have proposed, as you have proposed, can be good in theory and as ideas, but they do not apply. In particular, the strengthening of the Intellectual Property Organisation, in order to assist the IACs, creates huge institutional issues. You're ignoring them. Similarly, as far as the support for the Greek-speaking song is concerned, I was the one who said that the Greek-speaking song must be supported, but it must be well supported, as has been done in other countries and not with proposals that are in theory good, but administratively unspeakable. As for antiquities, Mr. Loverdos said absolutely what I would have told you. Moreover, I would like to tell you this: why are you so opposed and fearful to the extroversion of Greek culture? Greece is a capital of international power for its cultural heritage. You choose an introvert, a misery, when, in fact, the application of the archaeological law is given. We talked about it in all the committees. We discussed it with the Change Movement when he made his suggestions. It is obvious that the archaeological law is being observed. To conclude, I would like to say about the Acropolis. What happened, Mr. Skourlet? Did you forget what happened in 2013 with the corresponding flooding when part of the north wall fell to the height of the Propylanes, due to construction houses that went there? On the occasion of this, the Ministry of Culture began to perform plumbing studies. And the latter's approval was on December 31, 2014, signed by the current President of the Parliament, Mr. Tasoula. But for the next five years you have done absolutely nothing! And today we have implemented the programme that we have implemented both with the lift and with the routes which, obviously, serve disabled people. For all the things you're saying, someone's given you the wrong evidence. It's the first time plumbing has taken place. That is why there was no problem in the southern climate. The North Clyde studies are currently being conducted. We are also trying to deal with this problem that we inherited. As for not seeing people and civil trade unions, who told you that? We've seen them live and live through teleconferencing. The other day, when this particular request was made, the corresponding Secretary-General of Contemporary Culture saw them. Of course we see them. And I've seen them many times, and the Secretary General sees them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u185	Thank you. Ms Maria Apatzidis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as we read in the third chapter of the State Budget report for 2021, the cash total of the expenditure for the Ministry of Health is reduced by EUR 572 million. In 2020 health expenditure was 4.829,000, while in 2021 EUR 4.257,000 is foreseen. Amid the greatest health crisis facing societies and health systems over a century ago, the government has foreseen EUR 572 million less for health! Specific expenditure to address the negative effects of the pandemic of a total of EUR 523 million for 2020 and EUR 131 million for 2021 has been included in the health ministry's ceilings. In other words, pending the third wave of the pandemic, Mr Mitsotakis' government provides for a reduction in additional resources and special interventions by EUR 392 million! And as if the overall reduction in expenditure on health and the pandemic crisis were not enough, there is also a reduction in the Public Investment Programme by 10 million, from 70 million to 60 million. It is certainly not an excellent move and the reduction of health and welfare funding that specialises in spending on hospital equipment, for the operation of children's stations and nursing homes, for the creation of structures for the decommissioning of mental patients. Where's the social person of the government? This is a reduction that also applies to mental care structures and to the implementation of actions in the immigration field of the Ministry's competence. How will the government carry out its commitment to strengthen hospital equipment when the amount is reduced by EUR 10 million? The increase in expenditure on hospitals is only EUR 74 million through transfers from the ordinary budget and 2 million from the Public Investment Programme. However, as we know from the report, transfers from the regular budget to the EEA are halved by EUR 308 million. In fact, the remaining 300 million will be covered by the exception to the national vaccination threshold at a cost of EUR 170 million. While it is a common place to strengthen the role of primary health care as a strong frontline for public health, the estimated expenditure for it is reduced by EUR 97 million. Finally, by EUR 130 million, the amount for pharmaceutical expenditure and by EUR 96 million for other medical benefits is reduced. These government priorities are being promoted, while public debt is coming out of control to an unprecedented degree. We cannot talk about a state budget in the view that public debt is sustainable and settled. This deliberate deception is a real scandal, while Greece has turned into a debt colony. Without a real debt settlement, as Mera25 suggests, we cannot talk about serious growth in the country, with decent jobs. Greece is in danger of losing the train of the fourth green industrial revolution, which is a key pillar of the growth vision of Mera25. This conscious governmental option, adding to the acute demographic problem, creates an explosive mixture, which combined with the ageing population creates chain reactions across the range of economic and social life, health protection, health care and the care of citizens. The reality shown by the figures for the health budget is that the inhabitants of the islands live firsthand. What will it mean for a residents of Lemnos, who are forced to come to Athens or Thessaloniki for chemo, to reduce health expenditure by EUR 572 million? What will this reduction mean for a large proportion of the population excluded from access to basic health benefits due to distance from the national road network, from ports and airports? Many islands are vulnerable in conditions of desertification and ageing due to geomorphology and geographical isolation, difficulties of access and communication with central urban poles of connection. How will the enormous shortages of medical and nursing staff, hospital infrastructure, multi-purpose regional hospitals, the island health centers? Greece is the third most oldest country in Europe and within the ten most old on the planet. The demographic problem is a time bomb on the foundations of the insurance, economy and labour. The decline and continuing ageing of the population, along with the decline in births, affects the proportion of workers to pensioners, the working age population and the economically active population, which constantly declines. So we should not see these government choices and budget forecasts as unrelated to each other in the areas of health and labour. At the beginning of 2021 we expect a new employment bill, a bill that, based on the data available to date, will provide for the deregulation of the overtime system, the unpaid overtime work, the further elasticisation of labour relations and the reduction of redundancies, a bill that will follow the new law on the Banking Code, an equalisation law - monstrous work, through which generalised pillaging is under way from foreign private wealth funds that remains in Greece. After this disastrous legislative abortion that violates the Constitution, the budget therefore comes and provides for a reduction in health expenditure. It is a desertification budget that sends us to the fifth memorandum, starting with the bankruptcy law, i.e. the multi-brand bill, which turns the country into a slogan of many small private debt enclosures. This is a budget that supports and deepens the overall debt-sharing regime and desertification. Merra25 will stop the desertification of this country. We have tabled a comprehensive proposal for a law as a direct therapeutic formula for the current state of Greek society and economy. It is about burning issues, which the government systematically underestimates, such as red loans, public property, tax software and others, for which we are proposing solutions that can be implemented rapidly, Mr Ministers. We are voting against the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u187	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Skondra, Member of the New Democracy Parliament, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our country is experiencing a period of complex challenges and intense difficulties, which Mr Mitsotakis and the government together are facing and managing with wisdom, coolness and success. I remind you of the burning issue of immigration, the ones in Evros and the total destruction of the Immigration Centre in Lesvos. Since the beginning of 2020 we have been in the vortex of the global pandemic of COVID -19. The government has quite rightly faced this exogenous challenge and we have overcome the first wave with the best performance compared with the rest of the world. Then we had natural disasters on the Ionian Islands and Central Greece, an earthquake in Samos. Karditsa, my region, was at the heart of the theorem that "Janus" caused, recording the greatest damage to her history. There, however, in Carditsa, something other unprecedented was recorded, which was the speed and determination with which the government dealt with this issue. I can say with pleasure today that my fellow citizens have been arrested over 100 million allowances there to be able to stand on their feet, as well as I am glad to hear that yesterday it was decided on the initiative of the Minister for Infrastructure, Mr Karamanlis, to allocate another 150 million to rehabilitate infrastructure projects, with the possibility of reaching 250 million. I would stress this because all of this, ladies and gentlemen, you have not voted for and that is what the Cardiotians know. At the same time, it hit the second wave of pandemic, forcing the governments of the world to impose a second lockdown on their societies and economies. And within all this we have the challenges of Turkey, which has exceeded every limit and has almost angered the entire Western world and the government to fight again and to take care of the country's defence equipment. At the time of all these difficulties, our Government did not stop preparing the ground and the conditions so that after the end of the pandemic our economy and society could recover as soon as possible. In this context, the 2021 budget is also being initiated, which in fact is called upon to provide for many unstable factors. Therefore, it presents significant cash reserves to support the real economy. We all understand that the first half of 2021 will be difficult, but we also know that the pandemic is coming to an end with the vaccinations that start in a few weeks. The big bet we all have to win together as a state is to deal with the recession caused last year throughout the world. However, intrinsically, the government and faithfully its programme carried out the reforms that set out the conditions for a rapid and significant recovery of all sectors of the economy that were affected. It is a given that the financial result will be a deficit this year. This, however, is not a direct problem, as budgetary targets have been suspended for this year and government bond yields remain low. Ladies and gentlemen, a very brief reference to the question of outstanding pensions, because it has really been employing many of our fellow citizens for many years. There has been huge work by Minister Giannis Vroutzis on the digital modernisation of the pension system. It essentially puts an end to the "regular dinosaur" of decades from which many of our fellow citizens had a problem of survival. It is the prime minister himself on this. A number of things have been heard from the Opposition, the Most High Anti-Policy. SYRIZA is anyway in a permanent denial and misappropriation of everything. We have heard criticism of the ERC, of the IMs, of public transport. He keeps asking for new permanent staff to be recruited everywhere, he whinestling about work, disagrees with all sorts of reforms, i.e. he is plundering with conviction. He made a motion of censure and asked for the resignation of the Minister of Finance, Mr Stakoura, in an in vain attempt to blame him for the recession - what recession? That is what the pandemic has caused worldwide - and it should be congratulated, such as my fellow citizens in Karditsa, have congratulated him, because at the moment they have collected EUR 66 million in their pocket - only in Karditsa - from the repayable advance and from the support of workers, which were also not voted on by SYRIZA colleagues. Generally, colleagues of the SYRIZA, you have not once stood up to the circumstances, voting against all the initiatives taken by the government. You did not support anything, nor did you support the challenges of the refugee, nor did you support the treatment of pandemic, nor the treatment of natural disasters, nor even the compensation for the flooding and support for farmers with European funds, nor the reductions in taxes, nor the mobilisation of investors. It's a long list. Even the Pissaridis report - an independent economic report - has described it as a catastrophic one, a development plan for the Greek economy which, by making use of the additional resources of the European Union's Recovery Fund, leads us to a long-term growth of the economy, but also of the welfare of Greek citizens. Many elements of this report have already been implemented or have already been launched, such as the reduction of HICP, the reduction of taxes on natural persons, productive investment, the provision of incentives for more investment in research and innovation, the collection of public administration, the creation of a reciprocity pillar in our insurance system, the practical support for family and pre-school education to tackle the demographic issue. In all the opposite, because they do not follow your morbid ideological perception, that is to say, the increase in income through benefits, loan benefits, the method that has brought Greece to the forefront of bankruptcy. We propose another way through the application of best methods of productivity, support for entrepreneurship, the digital transformation of investments by covering the ten-year gap of the crisis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, by emphasising that the 2021 budget is a reformist, flexible, development-realistic, realistic budget, a budget that does not bring any new additional tax on households and citizens, a budget that strengthens the public health system, makes the necessary expenditure increase, where necessary, protects entrepreneurship and workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u189	Close, colleague. Don't say it again, you said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u190	So I conclude, Mr President, and I say: Whew and alas if SYRIZA, who is mourning today, had to deal with this kind of crisis. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the budget for 2021 and we shall change the way for Greece either together or on our own, gentlemen, of SYRIZA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u191	We continue to speak with the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance, Mrs Catherine Papanatziou, for seven minutes. Here you go, Mrs. Papanatsiou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr President. The substance of the debate on a budget is important. It is called upon to transform the individual government's programme into implemented policy measures. Your program should currently meet the emergency needs created by the pandemic. In the health sector you had all the time to prepare the public health system. You failed! Public health is threatened and you are deaf. Instead, use the juncture to implement neoliberal policies with as few reactions as possible. You have revised all the basic elements of the budget. You have also failed to manage the economic crisis. You've fallen out on every prediction of yours. It makes us wonder what scenario decisions are made in the country, when you are constantly giving us different numbers. In the preliminary draft - so as not to go away - we remember the Minister - Mr Stavros is not here now - to blame us for refreshing criticism. He ironically stressed that he has been editing and comparing and evaluating the views of the Opposition, the views they have condemned since then as a waste of the forecasts of basic economic sizes. Similarly, the Deputy Minister of Finance stated clearly that the markets are listening and we must focus on optimistic scenarios. But the markets - as I know - also consider credibility. You bring a virtual reality budget into whichever virtual reality your government and the Prime Minister live. So let us compare because here - I agree with the Minister - we will all be assessed on the basis of what we are saying. The budget figures show the degree of recession, this year 10.5% and the estimated growth for 2021 to 4.8%. EUROSTAT shows our country to have the second largest reduction in incomes, the third largest reduction in the incomes of workers. EUROSTAT notes that we have recorded the lowest growth rate between the euro area and the European Union. ELSTAT announces a recession in the third quarter at 11.7%. The OECD notes that the development of the Greek economy will move for 2021 to 0.9%, very far from the coveted "V" of the Prime Minister. The GFCM Research Institute records in the Annual Employment Report that in the second quarter of 2020 private consumption was reduced by EUR 3,8 billion from the corresponding period of 2019. At the same time, more than a hundred thousand workers have left the workforce and live with 534 euros a month for several months. The average monthly wage fell by 10%. The proportion of persons employed from EUR 0 to EUR 200 doubled. The European Commission's 'SAFE' survey puts the small and medium-sized enterprises of Greece in their latest positions on access to bank lending and notes that they have one of the largest European-level cuts in the turnover of the last six months. The gap in the government's alleged aid is revealed, but your plan to restructure the market is also revealed. Were we either right or wrong about the need for direct liquidity to households and businesses? How do you assess them, gentlemen of the government? The budget does not provide for any new measures to support incomes. You have no conscience about what really happens to the economy and society. You are not planning a qualitative or quantitative improvement in the policies implemented. Instead, we have reduced health expenditure. What is your development forecast scenario? Apart from the excessively optimistic assessment of investment growth, it is based on the resources of the Recovery Fund. The way the fund operates in itself creates reasonable uncertainties as to whether the funds, in part, will always reach the time that the government expects, overcoming the long internal and European processes. Expect the recovery of GDP losses for next year at around 40%, despite the negative forecasts I have outlined. How will you do that? The Public Investment Programme remains stable at 6.75 billion. A further 2.6 billion will be added from the Recovery Fund, thus a total of 9.3 billion and nothing more. In fact, you predict that some 45% of the planned growth and recovery in 2021 will come from the resources of the Recovery Fund. This is not a serious design. Your government's plan to manage the pandemic and its economic dimension is consistently failing. It works for a particular part of the market rather than society. It includes restructuring of the market and labour compression at the minimum cost. The balance between private and public, capital and work is overwhelming for the citizens. You are a deeply ideological government that at the critical moment you choose to strengthen private interests instead of public health. We are now provoking you to bring direct arrangements to reduce VAT in the tests and in the pandemic and related work, as the recent amendment of the directive on VAT in the Union provides. We have the margin. You have spent more than half the budget space that we gave you last year on measures which have favoured fewer, 2.5% of all enterprises.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u193	Finish up, Mrs. Papanatsiou, you don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u194	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm just gonna need a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u195	No, you don't have a half a minute. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u196	We are told by Mr Deputy that every euro we spend on the pandemic is future taxes that will be required. The development model outlined by your policies comes from the past. It's the well-known recipe that's been tested and failed. Those who have to accumulate and, at the same time, have the opportunity to hire cheap and consumable workers. This model leads to social cohesion in full decomposition. You don't convince anyone anymore. As far as authoritarianism is concerned, social movement will disprove you and overthrow you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u197	The speaker of the New Democracy, George Kotroyas, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the drafting of the State Budget for 2021 is a complex task which requires, on the one hand, knowledge and realistic approach to the socio-economic, national and global environment, on the other hand, targeted planning to address the many and unprecedented challenges, but also a vision of rapid and stable development. Under the conditions of the biggest health crisis in recent decades, but also the side-effects that the country is facing, the government is called upon to draw up an action plan aimed primarily at maintaining the policies that have stimulated the economy, the morality of the citizens and the confidence of international markets in recent years. However, the uncertainty that is planned for us for some time still requires this aim to be based on realistic foundations, and that is precisely what strengthens the credibility of this budget that we are called upon to vote on. On these same basis, therefore, the new budget is continuing the development path that our Government has set up to date. An important role in this direction is the Recovery Fund whose resources will be used to support entrepreneurship and boost employment, attract investment, upgrade infrastructure, green development and support the region. The central objective of the government is the gradual increase and convergence of per capita income with the corresponding European one. A key instrument to achieve this is the activation and encouragement of investments, by adopting a number of permanent measures that provide for a reduction in taxes, a reduction in insurance contributions and a strengthening of liquidity. In summary, I will refer to the reform of the taxation of natural persons and the reduction of legal charges to 24%, the reduction of HICP and its abolition to the remote islands, the reduction of insurance contributions, the reduction of dividend taxes to 5%, the suspension of VAT for new buildings and the provision of incentives for newly created enterprises in the field of energy and digital technology. However, our health crisis also imposes additional and non-permanent measures for 2021, such as a reduction in the advance payment of income tax on natural and legal persons, the cover of insurance contributions by workers to seasonal enterprises, the provision of a reduction in the payment of regulated tax and insurance debts and the offsetting of the amount of VAT in the short term with future tax obligations, the reduction of VAT on transfers, focusing and spectacularly, the reduction of the insurance contributions of private sector employees and the abolition of the solidarity contribution on incomes derived from private economic activity. In completing my approach to the development dimension of the budget, I will make a special reference to the issue of the stimulus of liquidity, which is expected to exceed EUR 12 billion this year by receiving support from the TPIX, the Guarantee Fund and the repayable advance that will apply in the new year. The new data that pandemic creates, of course, require rapid decisions. In this context, our Government has increased health expenditure by about EUR 800 million for staff and equipment and at the same time adopted support measures for affected enterprises, workers and sensitive social groups. In the same logic, it is planned to launch, in 2021, additional measures to tackle the pandemic of EUR 7.5 billion, which together with the amount of EUR 24 billion allocated in 2020 raise the total amount to EUR 31.5 billion as much as the funding of the Recovery Fund in the years to come. At the same time, the agenda of measures planned for the new generation includes the development of the economy by exploiting the European resources of the Recovery Facility, strengthening the Armed Forces, supporting vulnerable social groups by increasing the benefits of OPEKA, supporting health with additional infrastructures and recruitment, supporting education through recruitment of teachers and, of course, continuing the migration. In the midst of a pandemic, the budget shows the government's social person with actions that support vulnerable social groups and aim to tackle social phenomena, such as birth and unemployment, which are planned to continue as long as the conditions require. It is worth noting here that in Fthytida, in which I am elected, significant sums have so far been made available that have kept the workers up and alive. In particular, the amount paid from the repayable advance 1 to 4 of EUR 33,500,000 corresponds to eight thousand taxpayers of whom on average each received EUR 4,101. The amount of EUR 31,500,000 from TPIX and the Guarantee Fund from which two hundred and seventy companies benefited. The amount of EUR 5,800,000 from the special purpose compensation to employees. In addition, the amount due to suspensions of work through the 'CONTRIAL AND WORK' programme and tourism, totalling EUR 8,600,000. The next period is to provide for regular allowances to be paid to one hundred and twenty - three thousand unemployed, exceptional aid to thirty thousand long-term unemployed, exceptional aid to four hundred and two thousand minimum guaranteed income beneficiaries, special purpose compensation to three hundred and ten thousand workers whose businesses have been closed down by government order. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is clearer that this year's budget for 2021 has many unstable factors. That is why it provides for significant cash reserves to support the real economy and the affected citizens with all the benefits I have mentioned. It is a realistic budget that faces the unprecedented challenges, but at the same time has a vision and leads to rapid and stable growth. That is why it must be supported and voted for the benefit of Greek citizens and the country. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. The reason for this is from New Democracy Mr. Ahailos Lazarides. Colleagues, I would like to ask you, in the seven-minute time period, as do other Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, whatever way I thought I would start my speech before the National Representation and by extension of the Greek people everything came to the conclusion that everything is different this year. We are all living in Greece, but also throughout the world, a completely unprecedented situation for our own generation, at least, an unprecedented aggressive and insidious health threat with a heavy price in human lives, but also a very negative figure in our economic, personal and social activity. At the same time, we are called upon to face parallel crises, such as the consequences of the majesticism of Erdogan and Turkey, but also the permanent and potentially dangerous management of migratory reality. In the context of this multifactorial equation of instability, uncertainty and uncertainty, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is called upon to reflect its given determination, its persuasiveness and its consistency with regard to continued support for all the affected, the response to the consequences, but also the creation of the dynamic recovery conditions since 2021. And I am very proud in this budget to send a strong message of hope to all my fellow citizens in Kavala and Thassos, my fellow workers and businesses who have so far supported them with over EUR 130 million. So the message is: In unprecedented situations we respond with unprecedented support. In 2020, the Government put in place a series of measures aimed at supporting the economy. These interventions are divided into sixty two categories of measures totalling EUR 23.8 billion. It is an unprecedented financial support to deal with the financial consequences of the pandemic. Government interventions focus on supporting workers, self-employed, free traders, farmers, householders and business so that nobody stays back when this nightmare we are living for is over. Of course we also support the National Health System by supplying equipment, sanitary materials and staff strengthening. By the end of the day, 800 million euros were disbursed for health in addition to what was provided for in the 2020 budget. And here we are to constantly support the public health system. I now come to the budget of 2021. Despite the expected forecast of recession even if we are talking about 10.5%, the second budget of Mitsotakis government clearly describes a two-fold of hope for all Greek women and all Greeks. How? Firstly, with an additional EUR 7.5 billion in support of society, and measures, inter alia, to reduce insurance contributions and to cover insurance contributions under the 100,000 new jobs programme. It is two measures - I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that you have cut off on the popular layers - which you have voted against. Secondly, with the absorption of the European funds of EUR 32 billion of the recovery plan, which the Mitsotakis Government ensured for the country. And precisely thanks to these funds that will be influencing from 2021 we can talk about growth of 4.8%. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we manage to strengthen, in addition to the public health system and the pillar of our country's national defence and security. The budget also has a national dimension at a time of intense geostrategic instability and strong Turkish challenges. That is why it provides for the strengthening of our Armed Forces. It provides for the acquisition of new fighters, the upgrading of older men, the renewal of the armaments systems of the Navy and the Drought Army, and not just. It makes it clear that in front of us an antidote is unfolding in uncertainty designed and based on a thorough strategic plan to address all the crises we have to face. A plan that the government has drawn up and followed from the first day of its election. A project that has never been abandoned and which daily proves its adaptability for the benefit of each Greek and every Greek. We've kept, kept, and we'll keep Greece up. And in 2021 we will be able to start with a new momentum, with new breath, with new dynamism, with new hope, just as we did two hundred years ago. It is, above all, a matter of national responsibility to remove the extent of the circumstances. And as I have just proved, the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis can even do so under these unheard of conditions. I personally believe that the greatest danger in a period of turbulence is not the turmoil itself. It's about acting on the basis of his logic yesterday. That is why it is time for everyone in this Chamber finally to realise that success towards all the challenges that have arisen is not a personal success, but is a success for all the Greeks. I therefore invite you to vote in favour of the 2021 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides, for the time first of all. Mr. Ministers, if you please, have more distance between you or come sit next door. Mr Pappas has the floor from SYRIZA, and I would ask you to be there in time, just like other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u202	The ministers in what order will they speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u203	After Mr. Varvitsiotis, Mrs. Michailidou, then Mr. Pierracakis, Mr. Besiropoulos, Mr. Papathanasis and Mr. Dimas. Please, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is experiencing a tragedy and I really wonder if majority MPs are trying to get in touch with reality. Because I'd understand some attempt at exorcising what's going on out there. But the triumphs really can't understand them. You've done so well to be champions - and we call it painfully - and deaths per million in the second wave of coronary and recession! And you're talking from this Step forward as if you didn't hear your own political leader say that you were both reassured and surprised by the second wave, and of course you're also careless, the merciless! And in this situation you come up here and instead of asking for an apology, say what went wrong, you say you've done it all great. Well done, congratulations! Champions in recession, first and foremost in deflation! I really think we need to make an effort, but there's a lack of empathy here, it's obvious. Because if there were a sense of what is happening and a sense of what people feel and what citizens experience, there would be no inertia - let us say - in urban transport. Where after the voices we have put in this Chamber all opposition parties and workers have succeeded in doing two things: Bring underwear from Leipzig, which as soon as they rise up to Chortiatis, are on fire and make a call for workers, who - listen to me, gentlemen! - You published the list of successful and contagious people's personal data. You withdrew it - don't laugh, it comes the best - and you've re-published it with changed ranking order. So to distribute to the gentlemen who handled this story that it does not end here. There have already been public complaints. There are publications today. Well, this is your state. And, of course, we have - let me refer to this - a great mobilisation of workers at pan-European television stations. It is extremely good that the workers have found support from all opposition parties and society is on their side. And I want to call from this one that Step the government back. The limit of four hundred workers per national channel is a positive discrimination in favour of workers who ensure that the programmes are well suited, but also jobs. You do not need to insist on this and you should retreat. And since of course you are unconscious, you come here and deposit a budget that is both virtual and fake and provocative in particular. Is it possible in the middle of a pandemic to reduce health expenditure? So who really sat down and put the tux down and decided that these are reasonable choices? You have not taken any practical measures. We've been telling you since March. But in March you told us that 0% would be the recession. And on April 5 you told us it would be -4%. The summer assessments you triumphed again in Santorini and you opened up tourism and said for -8%, but that growth will come with 7.5% and so 0.5% will cost us the pandemic here in Greece that we are pistols. And now you bring a budget that speaks of -10% recession and of course the growth in time will be at 5%! And one wonders: Why should someone believe you when every three months you fall out? So, you wondered what you did wrong to your predictions and you come and review them all that much? And the OECD came next door and said that the country of time would have, he says, a growth of 0.9%. You have reached GDP levels in 1996. And the new medicine is, of course, the Recovery Fund. Don't lift the cubit too high. If you show a terrible change in your administrative competence and you can absorb all available money, it is three billion for time. And you pay off half the development that you promise with this budget to the Recovery Fund. And this money will be taken through the Pissaridis report, which considers it very normal to die a hundred and fifty thousand businesses by June, as the Athens Chamber of Commerce warned. These people aren't SYRIZA. Professionals are and they know what's going on in the market. And you know, because they know both the needs and the possibilities of their business, triumphs of this Step here don't like to hear and you should be careful. Well, there's no "V" growth. There will be "K", if there is. I mean, it's gonna be for some and chosen. And I would like to ask, since Mr Skoplakis is here, that the Pissaridis report, Mr Psilakakis, says that there are zombies. Those excluded from bank lending are zombies. When you take the floor, tell us if you agree with this, with that reasoning. Allow me now very soon - I will not break time - to say that the Public Investment Programme for the Ministry of Infrastructure is reduced by 45% in the co-financed section. Is that reasonable? The infrastructure and construction sector within the pandemic could be the sector that would stabilise and give the impetus it needs. And you've frozen all the big works. You have them all frozen: both the North Road Axis, and the Patras to Tower and the E65 and the metro to Thessaloniki. What logic, then, in a recession of 12% for the third quarter, does it say that infrastructures cannot play any role, while they could play a role, and money would fall into the economy and have an improved infrastructure reserve? The prospects of the Greek economy can only change if you change direction and have a direction that goes away from the logic that we have to go back to the surpluses - Mr. Psulakakis, you said so and I would very much like to hear if you confirm the view that the Greek economy can go to the surpluses soon - if there is support in the medium term of Greek businesses and to survive, but also in order to move towards digital transformation, if there is a prevention of privatisation of the major infrastructure, if the Development Bank comes forward, in order to support the economy, and if public projects really take the role of the steam engine for the economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The country can and must soon enter a progressive orbit. And the progressive forces are called upon to stand up to the circumstances and this prospect of making it every day that passes even more realistic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr Pappa, and thank you for the time. We will now continue with the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis. Minister, you have the floor for eight minutes, and I would ask you to be in time, as are my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we are leaving behind a difficult year, a year in which we have assumed the responsibility of managing a multi-level crisis, a health crisis, an economic crisis as a result of the health crisis and a national crisis through different insults, which we have received from the Turkish side, but also an escalation at all levels in relation to Turkish provocation. We faced hybrid threats, faced rhetoric threats and faced threats within the field. If we do the balance sheet for this year and the way we have dealt with these crises, and in particular we have dealt with them in the field of external relations, the balance sheet is certainly not an account that makes Greece more difficult. We have managed to forge much more alliances, to promote consensus as a deterrent, to develop strong traditional relations with allies and to deepen them, as with the United States and France, and, of course, to bring the issue of Turkish provocation to the table of the European Councils on a permanent and pressing basis. We know that this road is not an easy road. And we do not expect every European Council to resolve all the Greek-Turkish issues. However, what has certainly become a common place is the clear condemnation of Turkish provocation, the clear and firm support for Greece and Cyprus, and of course, the extension of sanctions, as decided in 2019. However, what matters to us is that through Europe, which is trying to build a common future for all of us, we have not only broadened the issue of strategic support, which it wants to have, but has been organised and organised effectively and support for the other two crises. And that is very important. In the face of the health crisis, Europe has come with a comprehensive response, and for the first time it has supplied the vaccines, which we hope, following the completion of the European Agency for the Evaluation and Approval of Vaccines, will be made available jointly and uniformly to all European citizens, which, for the first time, Europe is doing in something that concerns only the Member States, because health protection is the subject of the Member States. Of course, it took a huge step forward in relation to the shielding of the European economy against the recession brought about by the coronary pandemic. The decision taken last April at the central level was completed in July with that terrible summit to draw up a Recovery Fund, which was, in fact, the first step towards debt-sharing. And the completion of this process yesterday by the European Council following the agreement reached on the regulations through which the Rehabilitation Fund funds will be allocated is essentially fortifying the European economy. Our country is looking forward to making use of these 72 billion, which will start to flow from the beginning of the year, having already drawn up an integrated plan that has been submitted to the European Commission and which is under approval in order to recover the Greek economy, but also to transform it. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, at European level, we have made progress in the enlargement policy, which is an important decision concerning our neighbourhood and is completing a Greek national strategy which was adopted in 2003 as a European strategy with the Thessaloniki Summit concerning the enlargement of the European Union to the Western Balkans. And today we are in intensive negotiations with Albania and Northern Macedonia, so that we can lift any reservations, resolve bilateral issues and give the green light to their European path. Finally, through our Presidency in the Council of Europe, we have managed to highlight three key issues. First of all, we have raised the issue of public health as a human good and health protection, which has now entered the European legal culture and the European Charter of Human Rights. Secondly, we have managed through the Athens Declaration to give the guidelines for the faithful application of the basic freedoms of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights in the pandemic period and how these human rights will be restricted through democratic processes. The third was the adoption of the Observatory for the History Study. We as Balkans know very well that the Balkans produce more history, Mr Loverdo, than they can consume, and that is why, many times, those written in our neighbours' books actually form generations of people who may be away from the logic of dialogue. We would like the new generations, the ones coming, to be people who are receptive to dialogue, receptive to good neighbourly relations. I want to say two things, ladies and gentlemen, about what we are waiting for next year. We expect to move forward, at European level, in a new strategy which has to do with security, the protection of territorial sovereignty, the effective control of external borders, the development of a common immigration and asylum policy, which is a policy that divides Europe over recent years, which often makes it retreat to the Turkish challenge, which is a policy that has brought our country many times to the margin of European developments. That is why we want to work in the next year in a coherent way to finally adopt a new policy that lays strong foundations for border security, guaranteeing the rights of asylum seekers, but also guaranteeing the right to the security of citizens. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, you have told me eight minutes and you have put seven.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u207	I've got eight, but one minute we'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u208	Yes, sir. The second concerns the economic recovery of Europe. It is not just the package that we voted on and, anyway, we acted on. We need to move forward towards green growth - and that is why it is very important to finally adopt the climate objectives - and to translate Europe into digital transformation, so that it does not become a reality at world level and not lose the new challenge of the digital transformation of the economy. And our country certainly needs to be at the forefront of this effort. Finally, we have to talk about what Europe is. Because it may be an economic giant who does not have and does not show the strength he has. That is why we believe that, through the dialogue on the future of Europe, we should raise the question of how Europe's power is being raised in the geopolitical developments in the neighbourhood, that Europe cannot look through bilateral economic interests the system of security in the Mediterranean, the security system in south-eastern Europe, the security system in the wider region is being looked through. Europe must have a role, it must have a position, it must defend this position and it must be consistent with the positions it takes. That is why we have before us - and we are going to challenge and invite all other political forces to express themselves - a multi-level struggle at European level, because our own policy that wants Greece to grow, strengthen and create prospects is a country that is in the heart of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Skourletis has asked for two minutes. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Loverdos will speak. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I was sincerely pleased to hear you say that you have intensive discussions with northern Macedonia so that good relations can be deepened. Honestly, at last, welcome to the path of correctness! From there on, though, because that is where things went well, imagine that we had not opened this way, in this crisis with Turkey, what might have been the role of Northern Macedonia now. I hope that you will recognize that even afterward. It's not bad anyone admits their mistakes. They can hardly see you as more reliable. From there on, the summit has been held. You put the cubit where you put it. You've been through a lot underneath, but too much underneath. We had three summits where you told us there would be sanctions. Penalties one, sanctions two, sanctions three. Now the sanctions are reassigning. What's going on? Successful meetings on the diplomatic level how much did they pay? We hear that you are committed to a Mediterranean conference. With what guarantees? Will the connections be better there? Do we have any guarantees in relation to Greek-Turkish, for the Cyprus issue? Or are we going to find ourselves in a context that will not once again be favourable to us? One advice: Do not be foreseeable and predictable. Refresh the thread of a multidimensional active foreign policy. In March 2019, the channels for Greek-Turkish dialogue had been opened. You let the four months go losers. And now you're coming with what results? No reference to yesterday's communiqué, contrary to what had taken place at a summit in 2018 that was held by SYRIZA, the Prime Minister at the time, on the issue of Turkey's provocative actions in the Aegean. Why are we going backwards? These are questions which we will not only put, the Greek people themselves. And because it was one of your strong points as an abstraction of national matters, it seems that I see it here as delusional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u211	Thank you. Mr. Loverdos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, a year ago, in 2019, in a central committee of our own party with Philip Petsalnico who is no longer with us, we were discussing the issue of the European Union's sanctions in Turkey in general. Turkey was still challenging, has not become aggressive, as it is in the last year. We have said that sanctions are very difficult to enforce by the European Union and, when they are imposed, they may be ridiculed. These were now thoughts of two experienced politicians without a specific case. The story of the arms embargo on Libya came where the sanctions imposed were blatantly despised by Turkey twice. We have lived through the self-satisfaction of Brussels that has at last been penalised and we have, in practice, also experienced the glimpse of the European Union, a European Union with leaders of Germany and Ms Merkel, which, Mr Constantinople, we both remember well what role she played in 2009-2010 with its lasting procrastination. We all lived up to what role it played in 2015 with immigration, making the maps of Turkey and now, in 2020, it was the precursor and leader that reversed the climate and we went to this yesterday's decision that did not satisfy us at all. A country absolutely aggressively mocked by the European Council. That's what we call those who understand and those who still have a perception, and I know that you didn't expect more. I have an update on how the negotiations were going. The issue is the New Democracy and your party. Your MPs on the right and the left why are they so lifting the bar? That's right. My colleague said you've been down there. What made your party, your government, direct your MPs and especially those who go out to the media on their own, without controversy, as transnationalists? Getting out as a constitutionalist too, giving me fair and unfair on the basis of my knowledge! They emerged as transnationalists who have always concluded that "the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis will,” permanently. None of this would have happened. What mistake did you make and where did you not understand that this summit, this European Council, the main issue, did not have Turkey? How can news be channelled for the strict reason of the Prime Minister not - it is my last point - and the Prime Minister from Greece then tell us that the threats to impose sanctions are better than sanctions themselves? I don't understand you. Mr President, one second to close. We and as a political party, but also myself, like all our Members, said that if sanctions are to be imposed, they must be strict. Turkey must be in pain and Turkey is in financial pain right now. The rest about sanctions against persons, the Croatian people, do not count. They were attacked with Libya and the Union was ridiculed and relaxed. We are not parties and politicians unaware of what is going on, Mr Varvitsiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u213	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u214	Here you go, Mr. Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. The conclusion of all of this, Mr President, and even my dearest Minister, is one, is simple and I think all Greek citizens have understood it. The European Union, of this kind, which blackmails the weak and is always subject to the strongest, has a way of moving, hearing and acting. Unfortunately, Mr Orban proved him the other day, who went through his own action against the will of all the countries of Europe, exercising the veto that your Government, like the previous governments, refuses to exercise in the budget of the European Union. We have weapons that your government is dismantling, as did the previous one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u216	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u217	Here you go, Mr. Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. As the masks seem to have fallen again for the European Union. He cannot guarantee the peace, the rights of Greece and Cyprus. That's what the last summit has shown.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u219	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u220	Mr Minister, you have the floor, but for two minutes, why does this have to be closed? We are in the budget debate and we must continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u221	Three things I want to say. Firstly, the veto of Greece in the Union budget. I don't know anyone but the inspiring negotiator in the first half of 2015, who would shoot his legs when he's bleeding. I don't know anyone who would like to shoot at his feet while he's bleeding financially from such a deep health crisis. We would also be hurt and - I will tell you one more thing - we would be shattered. Because Europe had found the way forward - and that is why the two countries, Hungary and Poland retreated - in the preparation of the budget only for the Member States which agreed and which would effectively be removed from our participation in the Recovery Fund. If our foreign policy is multidimensional or not, I think it is seen, Mr Skourletis, all the world, with the deepening of the strategic relationship with Egypt, with which we finally signed an agreement on the development of the economic zone, the deepening of the relationship with Israel and the United Arab Emirates, with which we signed an unprecedented agreement, like Saudi Arabia. And, of course, I will tell you that the agreement and support it has received from the United States in recent years shows that the multi-dimensional foreign policy exists at the table and is active. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I now come to the question of sanctions. You have accused me, from Mr Tsipras to the last member of the SYRIZA, who does not understand in what context we are discussing, of what sanctions we are discussing, that I am negative to sanctions and because of Varvichiotis' attitude, they have not been able to impose sanctions on Europe. Sanctions are the means through which you want to put pressure on Turkey for one thing, to stop the provocative behaviour - which is written out in a way described for the first time in the conclusions of yesterday's Council - to return to the negotiating table to discuss with Greece, on the basis of respect for international law, the issues that have to do with the definition of maritime zones. This is described in yesterday's decisions and it is a step that keeps matters open and sets extra conditions in relation to the October decisions and, of course, as far as Cyprus is concerned - and that is why no Greek Prime Minister could in any case veto yesterday's draft of the conclusions - the references to Turkey's provocative behaviour on Varosia and the picnic - the victory of Mr Erdogan in Ammochostos were unprecedented...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u222	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u223	Wait a minute, Mr. President. We believe it is very important that Europe should move, even in a slow, simple, miserable way, to say it, steps forward rather than close it and say that it is a bilateral issue and that Greece must solve it with Turkey. As long as the issue of Turkish provocation remains on the European Council's agenda, as long as the issue of Turkey remains on the table, as long as it calls for cooperation in key areas, such as avoiding unilateral provocative action, with duration and credibility, and secondly on the issue of the management of refugee flows - because there is this report which was not in October and, of course, calls on all European institutions to prepare a comprehensive assessment of Euro-Turkish relations - this shows that this is not a Greek issue, but a Euro-Turkish one. And of course, everyone comes to this debate at a different angle. We are trying to be the ones who will drag Europe in the direction of imposing and demonstrating its strength towards Turkey, so that Turkey will comply with the rules of international law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u226	Mr. Villardo, don't open another circle. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't want to talk, but I was impressed by this hypocrisy I was seeing. In other words, I see three parties, which signed memorandums, signed the PSI, protesting certain issues that they have already signed, have agreed. When a country goes somewhere, as in the European Union, as a beggar, it obviously cannot have any demands. That is exactly what is happening and that will always be the case in the future. On the other hand, I can always see that we are talking about a programme of 72 billion. It's a fairy tale, it's a lie. We shouldn't do it all the time. We know that the 20 billion is from the ESRB, which we have always taken, the other 20 billion is from the CFP, which we have always taken. All we get is 22.5 billion, which will of course be regarded as our participation when we start paying them back. These myths must be stopped. It's a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u228	I just want to say that the addition you said is 62, it's not 72.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u229	I didn't say the loan. Sounds like 8% interest rate. What can I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. Mr Keletsis has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes. Please, Mr. Keletsi, in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u231	Yes, Mr. President. The 2021 budget, ladies and gentlemen, is being discussed within a global context in an unprecedented emergency situation, with incalculable consequences, created by the health crisis due to the pandemic. It is not an exaggeration to say that this crisis is the ones that change the world. Businesses are closed or shattered, jobs are lost, markets are crumbling. Nothing is the same and everything will be very different after the end of the pandemic. There are few economists who say that the consequences of this crisis will be wider than those of the 2008 crisis, even 1929. The consequences of this crisis will not only be in the economy, but also in society, in businesses, in work, in education, everywhere and of course in health. The new challenges show us both the new roads and the directions that need to be followed and the new policy priorities that we need to put forward and which must of course be reviewed. The health crisis has highlighted new priorities. Of course, the value of the good of health and the need for a reliable, well - organized and enhanced personal health system has emerged. The need for digital organisation and transformation of the administration and of the way in which citizens are served has emerged. This is where we have to say that important work has been done. He is here and the Minister responsible, and I must say so publicly. New forms of business organisation and operation and new types of work have been identified, teleworking. The same was the case in training with tele-education. And, of course, the value of the existence of a social state, the social protection net we have been talking about, to support vulnerable and weak groups and citizens. These are the new priorities. Apart from the priorities, however, I think we should draw the conclusion from the pandemic and three assumptions. Firstly, in addition to the negative effects, there were some positive consequences, some changes that came to stay and largely operated as a catalyst in the digital transition, accelerated the changes that were characterised as the fourth industrial revolution. Secondly, we need to draw up a new strategy, new priorities, a new recovery plan for the post-COVID era, which will certainly take into account the priorities of the European Union for Europe of the next generation, as it has been called, that is, priorities that have to do with green growth, the digital transition, of course, always taking into account the Greek specificity and the existing discrepancies and deprivations of our economy from the European Union's average terms. Third admission, in my view, is the classic assumption that always has its value, that to create a social state, to have good quality benefits, health, education, you can only have a strong economy. A prerequisite for this is the existence of a strong economy. So we are going to go through the essence of our debate today, namely how we manage the next day to build an economy adapted to the new conditions, taking into account all the new parameters, taking into account the new tools, the framework and, of course, the brave financing of the European Union. As far as the previous Council is concerned - and I say this by commenting on previous speeches - it is true that, within the country, it has rightly monopolized the interest in developments in national matters and the imposition of sanctions that we may have expected and in fact Europe's hesitant attitude towards Turkey. It is, however, very important that critical decisions were made in this Council for the economy of the countries of Europe, the Recovery Fund and the support of economies with the largest economic package ever in the history of the Union, amounting to EUR 1.8 trillion. For Greece this package together with the NRP is EUR 72 billion for the period 2021-2027, that is, for the next seven years. So the tools exist, the funding exists. Two things need to be done. The first is to fight with our evil self, namely to be able to absorb these resources, to achieve where we have failed in the past. What has always been the problem of Greece, the Greek economy, the Greek administration? That he couldn't absorb the money. It's what we were talking about about absorption. The second is that we need an integrated plan and a proper orientation. It is true that Europe is gearing towards green growth and digital transformation. These two were rightly chosen together with the other two, the axis of social cohesion, concerning health, education, research and technology and the axis of private investment in targeted options and sectors. Green growth, however, and digital transformation, and of course being a lever of growth in the economy along with new technologies, is basically, in my view, the tools, are the means to modernise production, to become more efficient, more productive, to drop production costs, to become competitive, not to burden the environment. However, this already presupposes an existing production base. And here I think it's our problem. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. Of course, companies providing these services to green growth, digital transformation, contribute to growth, production, job creation, and GDP growth. However, in order to have the maximum return on the exploitation of these tools, we need to expand the production base, namely to invest in companies producing goods with international demand. We therefore need a new strategy. If anything - and I will conclude with that, Mr President - the economic crisis has highlighted the need to broaden and strengthen production, primary and processing, to create self-sufficiency conditions for the country, of course by an export-oriented approach, of course by exploiting new technologies and digitisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u232	Please, Mr. Colleague, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u233	I'm closing, Mr. President. It is not possible for the country to import 70% of the meat it consumes. It is not possible in the period 2015-2019 - listen to this element, it is ELSTAT - to have imported from Germany, Italy and Spain cars worth EUR 3.4 billion. For the same period from the same countries we introduced meat, eggs, dairy products EUR 4.2 billion. And yes, we cannot produce cars, but meat, eggs, dairy products we can produce.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u234	Please, Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u235	We therefore need to give priority once again to the primary sector of economy in order to ensure the country's balanced development conditions. I think that this budget sets these foundations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u236	I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to be in our time. We continue with Mr. Stoltides Leonidas from the Communist Party of Greece. Immediately after Mr. Nikolaos Manolakos, the Minister will follow Mrs. Michailidou and will continue with Mrs. Perka. Mr. Stoltides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr President. You are played on every occasion that you serve a system that, based on the logic of competition and profit-driven, moves the strings of society's progress. A sign of progress is also the budget under discussion. To see this progress on the level of the economy and with a brief parallelism. On the one hand, there are sectors of the economy that are inactive, thousands of factories - shells, strategic operations, construction, metal, clothing, food industry, processing, everywhere. Why is that? It is like saying that we have a field that can produce all that we need to eat adequately, we have the potential to cultivate it, we have the seed, the water, the machinery and you come, the state, and you say 'top, it won't work', so 'you won't eat' because there is no profit for a parasite. The result is of course known: thousands of unemployed, hunger, impoverishment, dependence on imported products. We still haven't started the description and it started to stink about progress! Let's go see the case of the 'healthy economy that works' in the other field, which is where the parasite found the much-needed profit. So there, and while labour productivity increases are so glossy, it offers the possibility of working for all in less and less hours, it is precisely the opposite. Half of those who could work stay unemployed, too, in the bucket of "progressive" impoverishedness, not because you don't need the workforce, but because you've arranged for the rest of you to work for two at the wage of one, of course. So let's go and see a little closer to the root of your 'progress'. Those working with work produce an economic size that is relevant to the entire wealth produced. It's him, isn't it? Let's get to it. Isn't there anything else? We don't know if you've invented anything else. If you have anything to tell us. From it comes the profits of businesses, the wages of workers, a portion of the wages paid by employees to the funds to once take the pension, a portion of the wages paid by means of taxation in the state to return it to them by providing state services - education, health, unemployment benefits, infrastructure, security, etc. - also part of the wages paid to workers who fill the European Union's funds through VAT. And this is where the big festival begins. On the back of those who work are all the institutions, parliaments, European Parliaments, regions, municipalities, bills, tons of paper with plans, thousands of speeches. All of you with guaranteed strong income, which is the incentive to take such an important role, work on how to get more and more of the pieces produced by the wealth workers and how to make it profit in the pockets of the parasites we talked about earlier. Try with 30-year-old budgets with this year's and you get a piece - part of what the people have conquered against the socialist production relationships that forced your system to retreat to struggles and claims. You would have taken it all with a budget if you hadn't found the firm resistance of the class labor movement. You're indignant that you can't put it in hand, not in judgments or quarantines. You continue, of course, with tougher repression. We cannot, of course, ban you from the right to hope, although history does not leave her much room. And just because everything comes from the labour force, all of you, all of you governments have given their business groups the laws they need to disguise her to the full. You abolished collective agreements, applied flexible forms of work to hide behind four hours eight and ten hours of work, broke working time, eight hours, and spread it over the whole 24 hours with split hours, rotating work. On the occasion of the pandemic, you invented the suspension of contracts for periods of no profit, applied telework as a method of utilizing workers without time limits. You are now preparing the unpaid overtime and you are selling to the people that you will bring us growth with more and well-paid jobs, while you have opened the way the employer can work with one instead of two and three employees and with a salary that tends to the lowest, that is to say, that he cannot reproduce his own labour power either, get up and go the next day to work. And above most of the people you are sending unemployment through this process, you now say 'unemployment benefit' because you are giving it to the workers by reducing insurance contributions. It's not enough that you intercepted the wages, you keep robbing those parts of the wages that are related to meeting the most basic needs of the workers. In insurance, after the two hundred billion euros have been robbed over the years, sent to the bankers and industrialists pockets, you have cut the pensions for the majority of the pensioners under 700 euros and the saturation of 500 euros for six hundred thousand pensioners, those who built Greece. You now cost EUR 2 billion for the main and EUR 127 million for supplementary pensions, and you formally call on the insurance cords to put the next 100 billion of the subsidiary of the current generation, after you have legislated on the basis of new industrial relations, not to be able to get to the pension. And while you are raising taxation by EUR 3.5 billion, by reducing the already through this process of poor income, not only do you not give a health franc, even now, which, under the responsibility of all governments, the world is dying massively either because of the pandemic or thousands that are not counted because of your recipients of the development path that cannot be treated, you remove almost EUR 600 million from the health system with the greatest concern - if you have your God - the primary health care, the root, that is, the health tree of our people. We're talking about crime premeditated. You're ruthless. And where are the tens of billions of European and domestic, gathered from the crack of our people? Same parasites that brought us here. Will the development be brought by the ones you say? It's not a joke, it's all the evidence. That's the capitalist crisis, though. And the government, all of you, the rest of you, what did you suggest? Additional funds for strengthening business groups in one way or another? It's a wonder what you didn't understand. Don't you know that means more overtime unpaid, more unemployed without benefits, more hospitals and schools closed down, more years of work and a lower pension? You're not playing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in seconds. So, this sick construction all of you call it social progress and development? The profit of a hundred, the maximum of two hundred big shareholders sucking the lives of millions? Your rotten system has no prospect but to push the limits quickly and tolerance and endurance of our people. For the disease that causes our society the profit and competition of the vaccine to know and there is, unfortunately, for you in the hands of the workers, those themselves, that is, the producers of wealth and the Communist Party of Greece will contribute with all its powers to organise it as quickly and efficiently as possible. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. We will now continue with Mr Nikolaos Manolakos from New Democracy and immediately after Mrs Michaelidou. Come on, Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every year the Greek Parliament is invited to vote on the annual state budget, the official presentation of the government's objectives for all the activities of the state for the following year. I'm gonna avoid talking with a lot of numbers. The Armed Forces that I served for forty years has always been the desirable achievement of the result, and in this case the only result that matters and for which our Government is fighting is not the welfare of numbers, but the well-being of Greek citizens, the integrity and progress of our country. It is worth wondering that the Qualification does not owe a good reason for this government, even for its successful manipulations during the first wave of pandemic, which restored our country's prestige at international level. Looking around us, we find that the whole world is being shaken by an unprecedented pandemic in world history, which has depleted states economies, humiliated powerful leaders, kneeled countries' health systems with tradition and advanced economy, while extinguished societies to the ultimate limit of their resistance. Our country, thanks to the recovery plan, which the European Union has generously approved by 2026, will raise some 32 billion euros to support employment, education, health, the social state and private investment. But what is the final target? The ultimate goal is to leave us behind these difficult days and enter our country on a path of growth and progress. The government brings us to vote for one, I would say, a war budget, oriented to give the battle to three fronts: pandemic, social cohesion and development. The strengthening of the National Health System, launched in 2020 by supplying equipment and health material and by increasing staff, will continue and increase in 2021, since, in addition to the budgeted health expenditure, there is a 3 billion-billion cushion to be provided where the system presents needs and in any case to the remuneration of the necessary additional staff. In 2020, we supported social cohesion, which was threatened by the pandemic, with sixty-two measures, amounting to 31.5 billion, which are also defined in 2021, aimed at supporting enterprises of workers, self-employed and vulnerable households. From the fourth quarter of 2021, and by exploiting the first inputs from the European recovery plan, strong impetus will be given to the country's development progress. Ladies and gentlemen, from this step last year, I asked for the funds for national defence to be increased, considering that the Armed Forces of our country should be strengthened, taking into account the growing Turkish activity and the question of our sovereign rights. Today I am pleased to see that, in this time of crisis, I find that what I asked for at the time is being done in the programme announced by the Prime Minister and reflected in the budget to be voted on: Defence expenditure for the supply of weapons and the strengthening of the intellectual potential, which we so much need, amounting to EUR 2 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, this government, which successfully surpassed the first wave of pandemic, gaining international admiration, this government, which continues seriously and responsibly to resist the climax of the coronary, this government, which is the only one that can guarantee the recovery of the economy by attracting investment in a stable and healthy environment, is trustworthy and that is why I call on you to vote in favour of the budget tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr. Manolak, for the time, first of all. Mr Domna Michailidou has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget is always a difficult exercise. It is a difficult exercise, because it measures the government's ability to disarm the needs of society, to prioritise them and to ensure that they are effectively covered. It is an exercise of visibility in the next financial year, but it would be a shortage if it did not take into account the specificities of the current year. 2020 closes as a year of crisis, a health crisis, with a social and economic footprint. In this difficult reality the budget we have tabled stands at the height of the circumstances, not only because it gives a solution to the problems it inherits us in 2020, but because it reverses the climate. It responds to the concern of our most vulnerable fellow citizens with a number of concrete measures of prosperous, but also broader social measures, which ensure that the state is present, is good at the critical moment, especially at it. We have done so, not by accident, but after a lot of work and have already set the foundations of a national social policy, realistic and resilient, a political consistency between deeds and words. I want to show this consistency by looking at specific measures that we have taken the difficult 2020, followed by the budget of 2021. Starting from 2020 in a climate of distrust by an opposition that considers the privileged political privilege to be the exclusive one, we were right to prosperous impurities in the health crisis, protecting the most vulnerable and exercising a substantial and long-term social policy for all of us. No one, ladies and gentlemen, is monopolizing in social policy. You exercise social policy effectively or inefficiently, but never monopolistic. For a year and a half we have been protecting our vulnerable fellow citizens and leaving no one behind. That's the truth. But the truth, ladies and gentlemen, needs two: one saying and listening to it. So listen to me. A set of four specific measures, which I had mentioned some such days since this Step, proves our consistency and effectiveness. First measure. Minimum guaranteed income. We didn't just bring back the name, as superficially counting us. We strengthened the beneficiaries and expanded their 'basket'. Two extraordinary allowances have been paid within the year, one in May and one now, 30 December, a double allowance, indeed. We also broaden the beneficiaries, already integrating homeless and abused women living in temporary hospitality structures for the first time. Second meter. We shielded our nursing homes and patient structures. With EUR 8 million we have ensured that workers in these countries are strengthened by 30% in key positions, such as doctors, nurses, infants, bankers, carers, so as to ensure that the beneficiaries receive the services they need, without any discount, without any shortage. Third measure. We didn't just cover up, but we overcovered the demand for places at the nurseries. With a new 30m euro programme, we have implemented the commitment of our Prime Minister: no child outside the nursery. This is a very important move from our side, which not only helps children themselves, but increases the available income of families and, of course, helps women claim the place they want in the labour market. Fourth meter. We were committed to taking concrete measures on inheritability. We did it. In 2020, we announced, legislated and implemented the birth allowance of 2,000 euros for each birth in Greece. It has already been received by sixty-one thousand of our fellow citizens and we have given almost 100 million euros for a bonus, which I would remind you is given in two instalments. With this consistency of commitments and actions we are coming today to discuss the budget for 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, in the budget of 2021, the government is increasing its social spending to EUR 4.2 billion. This is an increase of 22% or 747 million euros over the previous year. I invite you to reflect on what other parts of the budget you can see such an upward change, a positive change in almost a quarter of last year's expenditure. This is our practical response to the unprecedented social consequences of the health crisis. An answer to those who have declared that our Government would "death" social policy. I now come to four important financial aid. First and most critical, minimum guaranteed income. We increase expenditure by 15% for 2021. Second reinforcement. Housing allowance, which until now was given to six hundred thousand fellow citizens. Expenditure increased by 34%. Third backup. We're protecting the family. The child's allowance, the largest allowance, the largest payment we have, in over 1.5 million children a year, is increasing it by 20%. In the same context, the fourth aid for our fellow citizens with disabilities, where this year's budget is increasing by 11.5%. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget you are calling on to vote on is a budget of inclusive recovery, a budget for all of us. It is an inclusive budget, which - beware - is precisely because it is inclusive, it is not just social, but is also economically viable. We have a budget increased by 22% and bringing together EUR 4.2 billion in the regular budget and the funds from the Recovery Fund through very specific and targeted proposals that we have made, I can assure you that the pro-racial policies have never had more coverage of funds and resources to date. In closing, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that by adopting the 2021 budget, you have adopted the most ambitious and well-designed forward policy of many years. I therefore urge you to vote in favour of him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Minister, for the time. The next Minister to speak is Mr Pierracakis. Now, Mrs. Perkas from SYRIZA will come to Stepma, followed by Mr. Heimaras, Mr. Snowides, Mr. Barkas, and then by the Minister. Mrs. Perka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say to the Minister that you have cut very many allowances and joined them in one, which suddenly seems to have increased. As regards the nursing homes, let me also speak as a Member of Parliament, we had cases everywhere. We had requested in time to strengthen both the performance of a test and the employees. The same happened in Lamia’s nursing home. He's been to the district attorney's office. Let's not say we've noticed the structures. Anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, last year you saved the positive results of the SYRIZA government. This year you believe that you will be saved and escape criticism due to pandemic, by this dear method of selective amnesia and amnesia. We should therefore all forget that we had underdevelopment in the third quarter of 2019, a recession in the first quarter of 2020. 2.8% of July 2019 seemed to you "anaemic" growth. The failure of your government is deafening in all areas. You failed to manage the pandemic. In one month we have three thousand deaths and a negative record in relation to the European average per population. You failed to manage the economy. Our country has the second worst service in the European Union in the third quarter of 2020. You are literally following this theory of neoliberalism that collapsed in the recent financial crisis, both as an economic theory and as a political doctrine. Depended and involved with your ideas, you face the crisis as an opportunity and an excuse to promote a program that would under normal circumstances be politically impossible to promote. Uncovered support for private interests. You refused the support of the ESS, saying cynically that 'it's about threw money'. Our rapporteur mentioned in Table 330 with the many zeros to support social groups. No support. But I will refer you to another zero table. It's Table 55, the plan of the demilitarisation. Revenue from airport concessions. No revenue in 2020. No revenue in 2021. No revenue in 2022. Is this the mutually beneficial agreement made by the Prime Minister of the country with the 'FRAPORT'? What is the risk of private investment? When the ‘FRAPORT’ had over-profit in 2019, it did not share it with the State. Of course, all this support is not based on the concession contract and certainly does not provide any employment clause. So that we do not remember 'Aegean' with the EUR 120 million. You have submitted us with a provocative budget that, among other things, in the middle of a global economic crisis, reduces public health expenditure and provides for increased revenues from citizens' taxation. How will this miracle be? Above all, however, you do not miss the opportunity to confirm your cynicism. You do not feel how the majority of society experiences the pandemic. You drive the country into constant social cohesion, with a rapid decline in incomes, an increase in unemployment, an increase in business locks and a rapid increase in social inequalities. In addition, your President has said quite clearly: 'Equality is utopia'. So we assume that for you inequality is normality. Like also, for you the economic crisis was something of a natural phenomenon rather than a result of some policies pursued or a development model that threw the country on the rocks, a productive model that we are again horrorously seeing by reading the Pissaridis report and we see it get flesh and bones with every bill that is voted on, although all of them have a very nice cover, usually pro-environmental. Your environmental profile, however, is not substantiated by the reference to the environmental dimension “there is the green budgeting” and is not confirmed by your legislative practice. The budget is slightly increased, but we believe that these planned funds are minimal when we have deflation and direct increased needs for western Macedonia and Megalopolis. The rapid and unprepared announcement of the Prime Minister for defoliation bound the country and weakened its negotiating position with regard to the Fair Transfer Fund. This has led to the inclusion in the criteria of the speed of defoliation and the unemployment rate of the lignite regions. You know, he is this ruthless Prime Minister, the willing one, who is committed in advance and then admires himself for his failure, just as with foreign policy. On the subject of the summit, we are anxiously awaiting it. Mr. Varvitsiotis didn't cover us. Did we win that this isn't a bilateral thing? So the issue of frustration, to come back, concerns the whole country. It concerns energy adequacy, electricity costs, but above all it is a model for changing the production profile and the green transition so that no one is left behind. Unfortunately, the experiment is not going well. It was designed without the participation of local actors and local society and was left to market forces. The two regions, Peloponnese and Western Macedonia, voted against your master plan. And they're your district managers. We already have two and a half thousand unemployed in the region because of the residual function, another six thousand are planned, and the European Commission's forecast is for twenty and twenty-five thousand in total and no support. Because whatever happens, and these vague investments are not the ones who are now losing their jobs. But what is challenging is that, in order to satisfy some of the interests of natural gas lobbys, the government risks the country's commitment to fossil fuels and the compatibility of investments with the Green Agreement. Because the European Commission notes that investments in fossil gas are inert capital. More generally, I can say that the period of the green transition shows the two different political plans for investment in general, vision, the productive model. You are talking about huge projects of billions of two-three major investors, sponsored by public funds, in special economic zones, without employment rights, in the absence of the state and in the absence of geo-technologies monopolies. We support an alternative model that the state builds tools for participation, funding, digitizes its services, promotes innovation, leaving local communities together with investors to build on it. Participation processes, encouragement of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and smaller-scale projects, such as energy communities. This model supports fair growth, with a strong and effective social state, with investment in work and new jobs. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by making a reference to a very large investment. You know who. The one that would close in a week and then close in early 2019, at the end of 2019, at the beginning of 2020, after the summer of 2020. Last year's budget was the first instalment. I'm talking about the investment in Greek. Meanwhile, in every bill that has come, he has an amendment to the Greek. Extreme are the last two. So, what's one of them doing? It gives partition of the right to surface, without the consent of the gentleman, that is, the Greek State. So it gives the investor ownership, the opportunity to sell. And we asked. And what would he sell? However, the second amendment was tabled the day before yesterday. So it gives the investor the right to sell tourist dwellings because it allows co-ownership hotels. We've told you many times, that's not how investments go ahead, the appetite opens up with gifts and it doesn't stop anywhere. Will the procedure be completed in the first half of 2021? I have a great deal of reservations about this, both in terms of the course of the distribution of the property and in terms of defending the public interest. So we have a ruthless Prime Minister who leads the country back, where his predecessors of the New Democracy left it, to failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u244	Thank you. Mr Himaras from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, listening yesterday and today to colleagues from the Officerial Representation once again to raise the tension and seek a scene of division, I have reached a broader political conclusion: at the time when all Greeks must be united in the face of difficulties, the opposition shows that they view these difficulties exactly as the field to be cornered by the government. You see as allies the problems of the Greeks, you act like misery feeds you. You are angry because, in an unprecedented circumstance for the country, this government still enjoys the confidence of the Greek people. And that is because, despite any mistakes that the Prime Minister himself has recognised several times, this government is struggling to correct them, fighting on many fronts and winning them. In spite of the great difficulties, this government has promoted bold reforms, while at the same time in support of our weakest fellow citizens. Because science finally found the vaccine for the COVID pandemic -19, but it seems that the Latitude vaccine will never find it, colleagues of SYRIZA. So I urge you to stop unnecessarily escalating political controversy. I urge you to stop exporting your own internal crisis to society. I come to the budget, ladies and gentlemen, which is undoubtedly the most difficult in recent years. It has to deal with the unbelievable factor in the pandemic that has violently hit economies throughout the world and obviously the Greek economy could not be an exception. In these circumstances, therefore, the 2021 budget cannot fully reflect the real facts of the policies that our government would like to finance. Let me start by attempting a brief review of last year's budget forecasts, 2020, which, except for the pandemic period, undoubtedly reflect this very desire for the policies that the government has chosen to implement. This government has been trying since the first day to support the long-term middle-class by reducing the taxation of natural persons, businesses, agricultural cooperatives and property, by decoupling insurance contributions from income and by introducing a new free-of-charge insurance system, by recognising the obstacles to bureaucracy and simplifying the framework and procedures, by changing the business environment to attract investment. Finally, it gains the confidence of international markets and investors. It is a confidence that demonstrates its historically low lending, as well as the choice of our country for the realisation of large investments, such as the 'MICROSOT'. I come to the special measures that we have taken to tackle the multiple and multi-dimensional effects of the health crisis. Special purpose allowances, repayable advances, suspensions of payments of tax and insurance obligations, extensions of cheques, reduction of professional rents, loan through TIPS II Guarantee Fund and much more. I won't mention numbers. Our rapporteurs have done so with enthusiastic adequacy. You all understand, ladies and gentlemen, the shock suffered by small and medium-sized professionals like me when the government announced the lockdown in March. In our minds the obligations we had before us were reversed: Payroll, tax, IKA, checks, banks, uncertainty about tomorrow's work, about our families, about our children. I describe something similar to what I myself experienced as a small professional in 2015 with the closure of banks and the imposition of capital control, you know, at that time of creative ambiguity and the shadow of the memorials. I think you do not want, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, to compare what you did then and what we do today. So if we want to be at least objective, we have to agree that this government has managed to respond with a sufficient degree, has quickly demonstrated reflexively, has listened to the market and has supported the economy. As a small-scale, then, I would firstly like to say that the government, without any previous experience, has been able to respond, because there is no manual, without such a mechanism. But he did something else extremely important. Despite irresponsible voices of opposition populism, Mr Tsipras' urges to blow the fund out of the air and give it all up, the government has chosen to keep forces for the uncertain future. And this choice justifies it today that in our country the second and most powerful wave of pandemic has come. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget forecasts reflect the impact of the health crisis on public revenue and public expenditure. It is well known to everyone that the activation of the general clause for the escape of the Stability and Growth Pact allows for a temporary deviation from the budgetary requirements in force in the context of enhanced supervision in 2021. It is certain that the next bet of our Government lies in the rational and immediate utilization of enhanced European funds. Minister, it is happiness that you are at the wheel of these resources and I must confess with knowledge. The bet is there because this will create the financial space, from 2022, which will allow for the uninterrupted continuation of the reforms that our economy needs. A determinant that will affect the financial performance of the economy is the development of the pandemic and its health control. Despite uncertainty, therefore, the budget of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis focuses on the development direction and is based on realism. Ladies and gentlemen, out there the small and medium-sized professionals, farmers, the day-to-day labourers are struggling to stand up and we must unite everyone together today to say how we can do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u246	Thank you. Here comes Mr. Snowides.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u247	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to vote at our top session. I would like to make it clear right from the outset that I support and then vote for this budget on the basis that it has a rule to draw up realism, it has clear objectives that have been formulated through figures, it is social, it is developmental and it is also flexible. It gives flexibility because in such situations we are living, in any case, but in particular in these situations, we need to have flexibility in management. This is very important and answers why we shouldn't have given it all over again, because we had to have care, because we don't know what the developments are. In this sense, I think it covers all these conditions. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis already has a rule that realism builds credibility every day and that is very important and its credibility is seen in economics. It is very important that, apart from the Prime Minister, who is a good captain and appeared even more to these huge forests and turbulences that exist today, it also seemed that the civilian staff are capable of being able and able to reach the circumstances, the civilian staff who have faced unprecedented situations. This in terms of the part of the government. I would like to describe a minute what the world situation is. We had World War I, we had the great famine of '18, and after a hundred years we have been in an even worse position since then. So I would say that two generations after the last war is the war of our generation, a war with many victims. And if it took the planes in World War I, if there were to be nuclear bombs in World War II, ladies and gentlemen, for this particular war it took five grams of coronary to die to date one million six hundred of our fellow men, three and a half thousand of them, sadly Collins, to make many people sick and to cost the international economy tens of trillions. These are things that we need to understand in what situations we are living in so that we can see in a very important and consensual way how to deal with, which we all have to do together. We've also changed our way of life. In order to understand where we are today, we need to put in our minds last December and ask each other, in each of us in the Chamber, but also in our fellow citizens who listen to us: How many times each and every had spoken electronically to Skype or to Webex or used electronic means to buy something? Today it is considered everyday. So we changed, we don't change. And this change must be anticipated and we must be ahead, because if only the large countries to date could have enormous growth because of the depth of their economy and their population now is the opportunity for small countries like Greece with the fourth industrial revolution to be able to achieve much more. Did the government do enough? He's getting ready for tomorrow? Because the whole matter is not today, it is how we are ready to deal with tomorrow, since we have the joy of scientific achievements, the vaccine will bring us to a better position. Is this also foreseen in the budget? Yes, it's the flexibility I mentioned before. Clearly there is the prediction. Clearly there are many infrastructures that run in a dead time for others. Is this a dead time? No, more than a hundred laws have become state law. We're running the part of the green transition. Digital transformation runs at speeds, the whole society sees it. We have the improvement in the functioning of justice. What we've always said. What's the matter with Greece? He's got paperwork. It's justice. Well, in this part by improving the functioning of justice, we will achieve much more. We have succeeded in pension insurance and employment and we do not have to say it alone, foreigners say it: 'Do it like in Greece'. And it's the only case? Oh, no. We have upgraded our economy to this great crisis. Are those who upgraded us or did they have other criteria? The low interest rates foreigners pay, who pay attention to their money and know what the world is like with zero interest rates and a huge benefit for Greece to deal with the issues, and they did not notice? Restricting tax evasion, I recently read in a German newspaper how well Greece is taking the measures and how bad Germany is not taking them. So we have to see how they see us outside. We're not alone in this world. The management of jobs has been mentioned by many colleagues, but the award of tourism, the management of our recent tourism product, has not been mentioned, to be mentioned. So moves are being made in this direction. Our big bet and gaze are tomorrow. The big bet is making use of all the conditions. And because we are usually talking about the Recovery Fund and the NSRF because I believe in this government, because I believe in Greece's capabilities, because I believe that everything will be better, I say, that we will also have to make use of the increase in domestic wealth, the domestic wealth that will come with a serious policy, with credibility, with investment by foreigners and Greeks, so that we can make Greece what it really deserves. On the other hand, I would like to ask: is everything all right? Is everything perfect? Small and medium-sized enterprises, those most troubled, perhaps all of them have been in good condition lately? Not even everything's perfect, but I mean, from the damage, you can't get a profit. So I think we could never have exactly the same income, the same conditions as normality. We have more to do and the government is a ready step - a step with soundness, as it does to date, to do what we owe society itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u248	Thank you. Next, Mr. Barkas from SYRIZA, then Minister of State and Digital Governance, Mr. Pierracakis, Mr. Voloudakis, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, Mr. Spanakis, Mr. Santorinios, Mr. Kotsiras and Mr. Besiropoulos. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor. I would ask you, too, for the time being.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u249	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, the debate on the 2021 budget submitted by the Government takes place on the basis of three failures of the government itself, which will surely lead to enormous crises for the country and also for the citizens, as well as crises linked to them, which have a common name that of Mr Mitsotakis. Failure to manage the pandemic, failure in the economy, failure and foreign policy and defence of the country's national positions. The conclusions of the summit are the worst possible result for Greece and show that Mr Mitsotakis is unable to defend the country's sovereign rights and interests at the most critical moment in time. In 2020, with the signature of the Turkish pact and almost four months of research, a few nautical miles from Kastelorizo and Rhodes saw the most serious escalation of Turkish aggression since the Imian era. However, not only do we have the third meeting for Turkey in just four months that we have not adopted sanctions many times and rather sanctions that bite, as the government said, but once again a clear signal is given to Turkey that it can intensify its violations until the European Council's eve of March 2021. At the same time, the Prime Minister himself seemed weak saying that sanctions are not an end in themselves. You failed to manage the pandemic. It is true that we have three thousand deaths in just one month's time. We also have a negative record in relation to the average European level in deaths per population. Our country has a very bad ratio in death index per 100 thousand people. The intubated index remains dramatically high every day, so does cases. At the same time that tests are being reduced, the confirmed cases are consistently more than a thousand thousand per day. At the same time, the government brings a budget which provides for reduced public health expenditure of 572 million to the Ministry of Health. You didn't even have a plan. No preparations have been made for months or for the effective support of hospitals with staff or for the elementary organization of the country. The ideological and political orientation of the New Democracy has led the Government to choose support for private interests, not to support the National Health System. SYRIZA's proposals since the first time in the government - which must even now be adopted, accepted - are an increase in public health spending to 7% of GDP. It is the average of the countries of Europe. We also need a plan of fifteen thousand permanent recruitments of medical, nursing and other health personnel as a deposit for the pandemic. And obviously a national health infrastructure upgrade plan is needed, which will make use of national and Union funds from European funds, such as the Recovery Fund, the ESDP, the EDP, so that we do not have to resort to the public-private partnerships so popular. You failed to manage the economy. Our country has the worst material results in the European Union. We have the second worst performance in the European Union recession in the third quarter of 2020. The members of the government suffer from a lack of consciousness of the drama experienced by the people and lead the country to a constant crisis of social cohesion with a rapid decline in incomes, an increase in unemployment, an increase in backpacks in businesses and a rapid increase in social inequalities. And in the field of the economy, failure is a frenzy. The Greek economy recorded the deepest recession in Europe in the third quarter of 2020. It was 11.7%, when Europe's average is just 4.3%. In 2020, the country will have one of the deepest declines in Europe. It is set out in the 10.5% budget, which also brings us to the last positions, perhaps even in the last place in Europe. The people's debts have been ejected. Two and a half billion new debts were created for citizens towards the public and the insurance funds. To these citizens with these debts, with this problem - which many of you have created - how did you respond, Minister? You came and legislated a month and a half ago exactly the new bankruptcy code as an absolute indication of social indifference, punishment policy and redistribution strategy. You want the people to go bankrupt so the few can get rich. That's who you are. That's what you're defending. You are voting for a virtual, fake, but also a challenging budget since, in the midst of a pandemic and economic crisis, you are reducing public health expenditure and anticipating increased revenues from citizens' taxation, even though you are aware of the well-known saying: 'Woe if you get it instead of having it.' In this ruthless situation you have brought the country and society, it is necessary to become a majority, directly majority, in society, the proposal of SYRIZA, which concerns everyone and everyone, who is outside the framework of the protection of the New Democracy. It is a proposal that gives voice to them and to those who live in depression that you and your choices have led them. For you the Pissaridis report is your gospel. For us it's a battlefield, not to be voted on and not to pass. This is the model SYRIZA serves. A model that can guarantee the reduction of inequalities and social well-being. For all these reasons, we are voting against the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u250	Thank you to Mr Barkas for the time, and I invite the Minister of Digital Governance to the Step. Here, Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget always includes two dimensions, one dimension of the report and one programming dimension. Starting with the terms of the report, I think no one could predict last year in this area what would follow in 2020, a pandemic incident equivalent to that of the Spanish flu 100 years ago. Perhaps we remember the well-known words of a British politician named Harold McMillan who, when asked what the driving force of politics is from a young man, had responded: "The facts my dear, the facts." So there is always a limit to the predictions, which is always good to do, but you always have to have the flexibility to respond. The government responded by setting as its sovereign priority in all the planning of this year the protection of human life. As far as digital transformation is concerned, last year we talked about a number of priorities. And especially in this area, due to the fact that pandemic has made the country's digital unbundling need, these loose ends have not only been made, not only programming has been achieved but has actually accelerated. By speeding up very quickly, we talked about the gov.gr platform, about five hundred one service it started with in March. And today we are with over seven hundred 20 services, having added a series of services to serve the worker, the Greek President, all of us. We have added the responsible statement, the authorisation, intangible prescribing, some of the specific demands of the EEAY, we have integrated teleconferences with the public services in our lives, some of the ADP, the OAED, the JEPs that can now serve digitalally with teleconferencing. Of course these steps are only some first steps. I think we should be conservative about how we describe them. It's important that it's done. It's been done in a very thick time. But the fact that it seems a lot mainly reflects the size of the outstanding we have to solve and in some things the size of the distance we have to cover. And we need to cover it too quickly. We talked about the fifth generation networks. We had said from the government's programming statements that the 5G auction will be completed by the end of this year. In most countries this auction because of the coronary if it hadn't taken place went back. In Greece he didn't go back. Some seventy administrative measures were needed. The auction is closed this week. This week Greece enters the fifth generation network. And it is very important that we have succeeded in speeding up the timetable and complying with what we have just said. We talked about a lot of other things too. We had talked about the auctioning of large IT projects, the pending works, we said about the system of human resources of the Greek State which was auctioned. Many other systems are auctioned daily, large projects not only small and daily. We had spoken about simplifying procedures on the facts of our lives, since the birth of a child as the process was simplified in relation to the bureaucratic declaration of birth, but also many other events found in the single digital portal. The cumulative objectives set must now be speeded up. The year has not yet passed. By the end of this year the gov.gr will now be applying to our mobile phones. We will be one of the few European countries that will have such application. By the end of the year, we will have integrated teleconferencing and consular posts, to serve as a whole by the democratic Greeks. By the end of the year we will also have created a new portal of open data for the Greek public, which will provide anonymous data for all, for the business, for the researcher, for any Greek who wants to process them. Because data is wealth, it is wealth of the Greek people, it is wealth of all of us and allows us to make better decisions, such as political decisions, planning, operational decisions. That is why we are choosing to invest in this as well. Of course, the next year is characterised by two very large central objectives which I would like to mention a little more. One is the Recovery Fund. The Recovery Fund is a Marshall project for Greece for our time. A 20% of this fund's money will be channelled to digital transformation projects. We have already announced the Digital Transformation Paper, which defines more than four hundred specific computer and telecommunications projects. In other words, it includes not only our strategy, but also the operational arm, the operational structure of this strategy. It comprises more than four hundred operations that will take place within the next four years, basically by making use of the money of this package. It is an exercise, of course, with our cumulative performance over all these years in relation to the absorption of European structural funds, which requires a rapid solution, so that we can not only absorb this money, but to absorb it targeted and edited. With regard to the digital sphere, the Digital Transformation Bible defines these projects and their design has already begun. We had talked about this project since 2019. Then, of course, we predicted less available funds. We are now being given the opportunity to implement the whole strategy which is extremely ambitious. That is precisely why there is no room for doing so. Vaccineation is also a major exercise, if you like, the biggest supply chain exercise since World War II. It is a huge challenge with hundreds of small details, and above all, which must be settled by all the relevant ministries, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Digital Governance, a total of government, and the objective must be achieved. As far as we are concerned, we aim to serve the citizen and the service channels in relation to the scheduled dates for vaccination. We have already announced that we will use intangible prescribing so that we can book a lot of the dates and go to the citizens and recommend an appointment for vaccination. Let me note that from the outset, two dates will be proposed as both doses of the vaccine and intangible prescribing will be used for targeted sms, targeted messages, to inform citizens and to confirm in hours we recommend whether to close this date or not. Alternative channel we have said it is a platform that will be created, the emvolio.gov.gr. That will also be the case for each of us, since specific population categories are prioritised by the relevant vaccination committee to close an appointment for the vaccine. But not all of our fellow citizens have digital skills. And for that very reason, the government will also make use of non-digital channels to close dates. In particular, the pharmacies of this country, which are more than ten thousand, will be exploited after the Ministry of Health as signs to be able to close their appointments. We are currently considering the use of JEPs for exactly the same reason. Other channels may be announced as we approach those days of vaccination. In any case, the aim is not only to enable all the co-legislative ministries together, the government to ensure the proper functioning of the supply chain of the vaccine, but above all to ensure that vaccination is done properly and planned and that citizens' appointments are closed in this way. In this context, I think it is the responsibility and priority of all of us, as we have already shown, in the face of every unscientific view, against any false news, against any conspiracy theory, to promote our stature as a political system. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close by saying this: the budget that is being put in your judgment is by definition and by generation of special circumstances. 2021 is a landmark year and not just because we will close two hundred years from the Greek Revolution. It must also be a year of landmark to overcome the very critical juncture that we are experiencing. They say that a budget is more than a sequence of numbers, it is a display of values, values which, in our case, are judged on a daily basis, are judged on a daily basis in the conscience of the Greek people and they fully reflect those priorities that will succeed in making it a success. That is precisely why I call on you to vote in favour of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time. I would ask all my fellow Members to be in time. Here comes Mr. Manosos Voloudakis. And because I see Mr. Spankee and he's always out of time a little bit, please be in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u253	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u254	Mr. Loverdos has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. In discussing a topical question with Mr Karamanlis, I raised the question of e-shopping and the many delays to share the goods. He told me you were responsible and right. This change in the supervision of the area has been made by the previous government and I think it was a good change. For the ELTAs you are now in charge. He also remembered the draft law, which was passed a few days ago. The problem with such trade which meets these tragic conditions is too great. You're partly competent. Are you thinking of helping out? Are you thinking of making some kind of intervention? We hear that companies themselves are saying weakness - I mean courier companies - and even they say that sometimes they will not carry out these orders. If I were you I would be worried and find a word to say about it, because it is also associated with the needs of the days, but also with the obligations of the government. I would like your comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u256	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr President. I have already contacted Mr Papathanassis and the Ministry of Development, which deals more widely with the regulation of the courier market, and at the same time I know that the National Telecommunications and Post Commission, the competent independent authority, has already sent specific questions and seeks a number of actions to further regulate the courier market. It is clear that there must be immediate intervention to resolve the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u258	Thank you. Mr Voloudakis Manos from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there may be many figures and tables in a budget, but in reality it is easy to tell the essence in a few words, so that the citizens understand the relationship between numbers and the reality that they are living today and the one that they will live next year. What does the 2021 budget reflect in a few words? First of all, a policy of effective defence against pandemic, first of all, health defence and, of course, defence against the financial consequences of the pandemic. At the same time, it reflects the continuation of reforms that only a year and a half ago the Greek people demanded. The government's economic policy has kept society up in the last ten months. This achieved the 24 billion in 2020 and this objective is served by all 7.5 billion scheduled for 2021. Anyone who tries to question these is in contrast to the common sense, with common experience, with what our eyes see. From March to today some three million natural and legal persons have been granted State aid, while the other obligations of the State continue to be fulfilled normally and the policy of tax relief planned and legislated prior to the pandemic continued. Obviously, the consequences are heavy. The recession will reach 10.5% in 2020, because Greece is the country of Europe most dependent on tourism. This fails to be said by those who speak of the dramatic decline in GDP in the third quarter and are specifically focused on the third, because it is the whole effect of tourism. If we look at the total time, it is with 10.5% Greece and about 8% the forecast for the entire Eurozone, again, with much more importance for us in tourism that obviously increases the problem. Large policies are understood when one sees them in their individual dimensions. Let's see a partial photo. What did state aid policy for the treatment of pandemic mean for Chania? Up to now, in Chania, nearly 40,000 workers received special purpose compensation, etc., 10,2 million special-purpose allowances and professionals, 500,000,000 net grant aid. In addition to this, 162m euros were granted to the four cycles of repayable advance and 106m euros to TEPIX II. These are summing up EUR 268 million market liquidity in a county of fifty thousand inhabitants, and these should be added to payment, taxes and contributions. These numbers are trying to zero off the opposition word of the Officerial Response. But society knows empirically what is happening. SYRIZA this year has exhausted the usual flawing tricks of reality to create impressions. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. In the year of the pandemic, expenditure will reach 69 billion along with the extraordinarys. Obviously, also the 2020 expenditure with all the above-mentioned civil aid programmes is not expected to be repeated again in 2021. I don't understand why the impunities are. 2021 will be the year of the return to normality. If we compare the 2021 budget to the last normal year, in 2019, we see an increase in expenditure by 11 billion, almost 20%. If things go wrong, there is a reserve of three and a half billion in the budget. This will cover any emergency needs of the health system or any other. They will not be spent, if necessary, if things go well, because these costs eventually end up in debt and at some point are paid for by the next generations. The budget also provides for an increase in expenditure on defence by one and a half billion, 37%. It is necessary in the light of the circumstances and a message in each direction. Allow me here to make a relatively brief request, a brief reference to the recent summit of the European Union. The inability of Europe to react to Turkey's continuing aggression, a weakness which is the result of German politics, clearly shows that the European Union is not and cannot become a federation. Of course, we want to continue to be at the heart of the European Union. Of course, we have great, huge benefits from our participation. But our national survival is and will remain our case. That is why the increase in defensive expenditure. Let us have that truth before our eyes. In the case of taxes, the policy of tax relief continues in the midst of the crisis. Last year we had the reduction of the ENPIA, the tax rate of natural persons, the tax rates of companies. This year we are abolishing the solidarity levy in 2021 for private employees and reducing private employees' insurance contributions by 3%, a reduction that SYRIZA did not vote on. You have confused them, ladies and gentlemen, with taxes and expenditure. You ask everywhere for an extra cost, you ask everywhere for doubling without a programme, without a strategy. It's typical of how you dealt with health. SYRIZA’s president faced the crisis by asking for four thousand health recruitments at the beginning of the crisis. When seven thousand sanitaries were eventually hired, he asked for fifteen thousand. This attitude is no longer forgiven in the face of this situation. You are trying, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, to maintain your central account, that you are the party that supports the economically weak against our own unrealistic liberal policy. But the policies to strengthen the weaknesses that you have implemented continue and are being strengthened. All benefits invariably continue and, in fact, one, the birth allowance is added, and total welfare costs are increased by 22%. The outdated liberals are implementing levels of social policy spending higher than yours, but at the same time we are creating the conditions for growth by creating a favourable business environment. Because this will create real wealth and jobs, so there will be real and lasting prosperity, not prosperity of election and Christmas bonuses. The lasting and real prosperity of our country serves the policy reflected in the 2021 budget. That is why I am voting in favour of him and I invite you to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr. Voloudakis for his time. I invite Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou to step in, which will also be in her time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u261	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in a few days' time, 2020 will be a past and will pass on to history as the year of COVID -19. Who, in fact, when we were talking about the 2020 budget last year, imagined that 2020 would appear to be a killing pandemic, while we would have a tsunami economic crisis that puts in great trial even the most powerful economies? Our country has been in a difficult situation. By living the heavy consequences of bankruptcy, in essence of all three memoranda, we have achieved what other countries have taken two or three years, while our country, Greece, took almost ten. People'sism, the rhetoric of demagoguery and easy solutions led to a third unnecessarily inappropriate memorandum which extended to at least four years the exit from them. In this situation, too, the health crisis has emerged in our country. In the first wave Greece did excellently. The early decisions of the government, the responsible attitude of all the political forces, with a special role for the Change Movement, the full coordination and the collective view of the scientific community and the compliance of society brought significant results when tens of thousands of people died in other countries. Then came disappointment. The government, although they all knew we were waiting for a second wave, although the scientists evacuated SOS, fell asleep. Cases increased at the beginning gradually. And what happened was just some fragmentary measures, which were not already implemented. Even the mandatory use of a mask has been delayed. No one was actually prepared. The additional buses, to reduce even slightly the crowding in public transport, remembered them in October. The necessary appointments of medical staff began a few months ago, at the beginning of November. Tests, which were supposed to be on a larger scale, never increased on substance. Sampling tests were never carried out at the beginning of schools. The government has shown weakness and this has not been left free of charge. We had an exponential increase in cases. The ESS has been tested and tested daily. We already have almost three and a half thousand lives lost. We had to go to a general lockdown. The Prime Minister has made his self-criticism for someone, not all mistakes. Sustained. But, ladies and gentlemen, self-criticism in no way can eradicate the consequences of these mistakes. Now we are running, without a clear horizon and with our thoughts in the hope of the vaccine, when it comes and when it is adopted. However, we need to get up until then. And the next four, five, six months are very critical. We must convince the Greek citizens to be vaccinated. Whether - if you like - they belong to the so-called anti-embryosist movement or they belong to those who have reasonable, reasonable questions, we must convince them with arguments and initiatives. And such an initiative was taken in favour of the vaccination in West Athens by the MPs of the New Democracy, SYRIZA and the Change Movement, and all mayors and mayors of Greece, this initiative to find answers and imitators. I have referred to the issue of pandemic, because - let us not hide - all budget forecasts, ladies and gentlemen, depend on the development of the pandemic and its duration. Otherwise, I'm afraid we're having a perhaps very interesting conversation, but absolutely theoretical. In addition, we saw this during 2020, how many times the government and the Commission, the IMF, have revised their estimates. Infinitely! So why not take the 45% growth projection as a fait accompli in 2021 as secure? I think this prediction will turn out to be a wrench of hope. The sure thing is that the economy, business, workers' lives and, of course, those who are unemployed are being tried hard and we still haven't seen it all. Some measures were taken, but in no case was it enough to deal with the problem sufficiently and holisticly. I have an appreciation, ladies and gentlemen, for hearing from the President of the Athens Chamber of Commerce that about 50% of the businesses, one on the other, are at risk of closure. I know what dozens of professionals have told me in West Athens that there is no liquidity nor for 20,000 or 30,000 euros. They suffocate for such working capital and the banks, as we all know, are elsewhere. I know very well that society itself is suffocating. A few days ago I tabled a timely question and the occasion was the power cuts in St. Varvara. We are talking about households waiting for the Minimum Guaranteed Income, about families taking food from the Food Aid Fund and about medicines going to the Social Pharmacy. We're talking about households where kids can't do televised. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the real problems, especially in its people's neighbourhoods like West Athens. A number of priorities which, in my opinion, need to be taken into account: First, in a country with very low productivity and higher debts than the product which produces the most important issue is the proliferation of investment, the spectacular increase in production, the significant improvement in living standards. We must therefore tackle the country's unresolved and pressing problems and the extremely negative, difficult situation in our economy. The overthrow of the negative course so far must be our primary concern. Secondly, a number of obligations, taxes and others go for later, but thousands of businesses are drowning, and I say very clearly, Mr Ministers, that you must seriously consider moving forward to a business cut. Thirdly, in view of a large proportion of the new European Recovery Fund funds allocated to large projects, the importance of smaller business projects should not be undermined. These will rejuvenate local communities and give twenty, thirty, 100 jobs, which are very important. It is not of little interest to local communities. And of course, the traumatic experience of the last decade shows on a major issue the support, upgrading, modernisation of the ESS and, of course, the support of the people who are fighting the frontline of the ESS workers. These were some of my thoughts. I see, however, because I have listened very carefully to the Communism and the Ministers, an optimism and predictions which do not seem to be based on the data we have. From the speeches I heard from the Congress, I saw a strange complacentness and self-sufficientness, which is inconsistent with the circumstances. For all these reasons, I will not vote for the budget proposed, which is covered by the overall reasoning developed by the Change Movement by the special speakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u262	Thank you. Mr Spankis has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days before we leave back in 2020, we are called upon to ratify the State Budget for 2021. We have to discuss a budget other than the others, because it contains expenditure that is adapted to the needs of the population today because of the health crisis. It is easy in times of crisis to judge, but it is difficult to propose here too is the big difference between the Government of New Democracy and the Civic Opposition. The government proposes, while the Qualified Opposition says a dry 'not everything', which is not done by opposition in other countries of Europe. But let us leave this debate on time and deal with ten points that need to be cleared and included in the 2021 budget, because at the time when we are living, ladies and gentlemen, citizens are asking the political system for specific things, concrete initiatives and, of course, rapid and appropriate decisions. Firstly, this budget will lead us to an increase in private consumption by 3%, and public consumption will be better than it predicts, which is about -1.9%. Secondly, we will have an increase in employment and a decrease in unemployment significant after the first quarter of 2021. Thirdly, we make use of the European resources of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. Fourthly, we are moving towards the introduction of the Second-Performance and Settlement Code to borrowers. Fifthly, we support vulnerable social groups with a number of appropriate social benefits. Sixth, we are strengthening our country's Armed Forces by increasing spending. The estimated expenditure is estimated at EUR 1,6 billion for 2021. Seventh, we proceed to new recruitments of permanent teachers at the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs and recruitment to the National Health System. Increase the admissions to the productive schools of the Ministry of National Defence. Recruitment of permanent professionals of PSURs and short reclassifiers. Recruitment in the Fire Corps, police. We'll have a new payroll at the Independent Public Revenue Authority. Eighthly, the implementation of the Public Investment Programme for 2021 provides for funds amounting to EUR 6.7 billion representing 3.9% of GDP. Of this amount, 90% of expenditure goes to projects cofinanced by the Recovery and Stability Fund and only 10% goes to projects that will be financed exclusively from national resources. Ninth, strengthening the municipalities with 1.9 billion from the CFP and an additional grant of 155 million euros to cover school-leaving staff, school-leaving staff, the "Help at Home" programme, while the CFP's second degree will raise the yields to 646 million euros. Tenthly, we have improved the social budget by EUR 578 million compared with 2020. You see clearly, ladies and gentlemen, one is the title of this budget, one is the budget of social justice, of social solidarity with a positive sign for the Greek society, because our policy is based on the strengths of the Greek economy and the Greek taxpayers, the reduction of taxation and social security contributions. The New Democracy Government will not stop giving the debtors opportunities to care about vulnerable social groups, not about words, but about works, acts and numbers. I could talk for many minutes about this budget. But I would like to take this opportunity to sincerely invite Members of the New Democracy elected in the southern suburbs, in the South sector of Athens, to conduct an open dialogue on the economy in particular, targeted, along with the colleagues of the Vice-President of the Commission. I call on colleagues to speak with numbers so that local communities can hear from us, so that the Greek people can hear from us. In our constituency over forty-five thousand ATMs received a repayable advance of more than 455 million euros. The special-purpose allowances were granted for more than eight thousand PVUs, and are estimated to exceed EUR 34 million. Of course the suspensions of tax and insurance contributions give breath to natural and legal persons and I wonder how something was said contrary to the Civic Opposition in this Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that these are your finances. I would like to mention the following. In Glyfada, more than ten and a half thousand ATMs received 95,687,000 euros a repayable advance. In Kallithea seven thousand nine hundred eighty-six ATMs received 58,000 euros. In Ilioupoli eleven thousand twenty-two PVC received a EUR 70,753,000 repayable advance without including these numbers and the anonymous companies, FAO Athens and FAE Piraeus. Corresponding to special purpose compensation, for example in Glyfada 12 thousand six hundred sixty - seven PVCs received 8,888,000 euros. In Kallithea, nine thousand three hundred forty - six PVCs received 6,466,000 euros. In Ilioupoli thirteen thousand seventy - five ATMs received 9,286,000 euros. These are the numbers. We are specific in our policy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just a moment of your tolerance. Of course, these measures are not enough when you have an ongoing health crisis with serious effects on the economy. But we have a government that listens to it, which takes appropriate measures and at high speeds. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has a strong social sensitivity. He is a reformer and of course does not fall within the trap of populism. 2021 will be a year with serious financial interventions to deal with the consequences of the pandemic. It will be the year of the recovery of the Greek economy and even since the second quarter of 2021. It will be the year we see the indicators improved. It is certain that we have achieved more in both health and the economy than in other European countries. That cannot be overlooked. It restored the climate of confidence in the Greek economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u264	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u265	I shall close, Mr President, and thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the big question is to go back to normality, and that requires a national unity and a proper prerogative. I therefore urge you to vote in favour of this budget for 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Nektarios Santorinios from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me, before I begin my position, to wish those who are currently fighting the coronary, to be passive, but in particular to wish the Minister for Maritime Affairs, Mr Placiotakis, a good recovery. We learn that it is better and soon to be close to his and his duties. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about a budget that has been drawn up with the ruthlessness of what is happening in society, with the ruthlessness of what is now realising that most people live from their wages or who thinks that unemployment or job suspension is just a supplement to someone's income. This explains why the payments for those on parole come at the implacable rate of government after two or three months. In your idle world, seasonal workers are invisible. About half of them are not entitled to help. Those who are not entitled to unemployment benefit have not been able to complete the fifty-sealed ones this year, so they will not take it for this tragic summer, while those who had more than eighty brands did not even receive the exceptional allowance last year. Business is a step ahead of the padlock. The people of tourism are at a border point. The majority of tourist businesses were unable to enter TEPIX. We hear those numbers that have shared you in non paper, but these numbers have gone to specifics. Those who actually opened this year were punished, because the repayable advance was based on the turnover rather than on real profits or losses. Because they had damages to those who had to implement the health protocols. And we told Mr. Theochari, at least let them be financed by the NSRF. And what were we talking about, did he hear us? You unpreparedly opened tourism without any preparation, without a plan. We told you "do a seventy-two-hour test", not only for security reasons, but also for reasons of protecting the country's reputation as a safe destination. Do you know that these agencies that forced you to open without a seventy-two-hour test at their own hotels didn't put customers without a test? They knew something. But you were attacked and you heard. The only thing you're interested in, like now, is communication idyllic backgrounds in Santorini and invitationing entrepreneurs to put back. And then what? We left them businessmen. They put their backs on, but they stayed alone. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, for the Ministry of Shipping and in particular for the national part of the Public Investment Programme, the account simply does not come out. The budget analysis is estimated at EUR 71.8 million for barren lines. But only from the Ministry's announcements, but also from the real needs to serve the barren lines, the sum is 135 million. The rest? So half of the budget is missing. Will you leave the islands without lines? Especially this year, where the ferry companies have recorded large revenue losses that exceed 50%, are you tabling a budget deficit for the shipping and the interconnection of the islands? But where we really can't make a difference is to the costs of the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy. The total budget of the ICP for the Secretariat is EUR 23.5 million. This amount must fit the transport equivalent. The annual needs of the transport equivalent are 157 million euros, i.e. not even one third of them. And I'm telling you this. How will you pay the island companies, how will you pay the islanders? You're gonna do what you've done this year. You owe them, since 2019, the transport equivalent, you abolished the fuel side, resulting in the small islands, resulting in the small islands launching the gasoline price and at the same time there are delays in the subsidies side for islanders. And because you have been shared by this "reserve" the "non paper" with ENVIA on the remote islands, you know, ladies and gentlemen, that ENVIA on the remote islands has not been abolished. It was not abolished for businesses. Repealed only for natural persons. Businesses needed this year and were not abolished for them. And I'm saying it, so we can finish with this dreadful non paper that you've been shared and reproduced. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget submitted by the government does not meet the needs of the country at this difficult time. At a time when the ESS is needed, you are obsessed with following your neoliberal doctrine and reducing health expenditure. At a time when the economy is falling apart and businesses are sinking into debt, you imagine that you support them and give us various figures and do not see any substantial support for them. It is no accident, after all, that all entrepreneurship operators say that about half the companies will be closed down. Your obsessedness, your discomfort, your procrastination, your procrastination, the country paid them by recording the biggest recession in the Eurozone in the third quarter with 11.7%. And it's no accident in the third quarter. It is the quarter in which the wealth is actually produced in the country due to tourism. Greece needs a progressive turn forward, with a change in the production model, with support for businesses and workers. It requires strengthening public structures and infrastructure. The island country needs new structures that support local communities by exploiting digital technology, such as the creation of electronic doors for the islands and for communication with all public services, in real time, from the island. Our islands require the improvement and modernisation of our ferry fleet with modern ships using green energy. A study on this subject has been carried out by the Chamber of Naples, which we as Ministry of Maritime Affairs had financed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need some time, Mr. President. This change can be achieved by amending the model for the award of the barren lines and the use of European funding and resources from the Recovery Fund. Island undertakings and islanders require the maintenance, enhancement and expansion of the transport equivalent rather than the abolition thereof. It is clear that both the budget you have tabled and your things cannot help the country moving forward. It's just out of reality. And I shall end, Mr President, with a reference to the summit. It is obvious that our country has lost much from this summit. It's obvious the national defeat. At a time when the "ORUC REIS" is swinging around the Aegean Sea, you celebrate. You're probably celebrating because we weren't even punished! Finally, stop lying to the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Let me inform the House that today the sitting will end at the end of the sixth circle of speakers, namely Mr Dimitrios Haritou from SYRIZA. Mr Georgios Kotsiras from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u269	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I begin my speech, since the previous speaker referred to a number of maritime issues, wishing the Minister for Maritime Affairs at length and hoping that we would soon see him in his duties as sound and strong. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] We are undoubtedly at a particular and unprecedented time for the country, which undoubtedly has global and historical characteristics. We are in the second wave of the fierce attack that the world is under attack from the coronary. This attack has hit advanced nations of the world, very powerful health systems and very dynamic and powerful economies all over the world. Our country is standing up in this difficult situation. He stands up with wounds, with difficulties, but at both a health and an economic level, he can and can cope, even though society continues to be tested and we are fighting a difficult battle in order to cope with this very unfavourable situation. My region, West Attica, has been severely affected by the coronary in recent days. In these extreme circumstances, the state, the scientific community, society has built a relationship of confidence and faces every day a battle from this great war that we are all experiencing. This relationship of trust and credibility must be safeguarded as an eye daughter. It must be the core of battle, so we can win and stand up the next day. In 2021, with the coming of the vaccine, this great scientific success, it could be better, with better prospects for our country, in order to make its way forward with the smallest possible social losses. Despite the cash economic data worldwide that are undoubtedly linked to the unknown development of the pandemic, we are talking today about a budget that is realistic, with substantial development, investment, reformist and prosperous aspects. But how did we get this far? How did the environment come up to today's budget? In the field of the economy, the Government of New Democracy since the beginning of its governance has strengthened its economy, strengthened its extroversion and credibility, with a typical example of this success of lending the country at very low interest rates. This success is much more emphatic at the difficult period we are experiencing, which we see that our country despite the orchid we have experienced from this unfavourable juncture can and can borrow at very low interest rates. He went to specific political interventions that favour and help the citizen in his everyday life. It has implemented structural changes. For example, I mention the complete abolition of capital restrictions, the promotion of tax interventions and investment incentives to strengthen the Greek economy's development process, but also permanent interventions with a significant economic and social impact: the reduction of HPAI, the reduction of tax rates for natural persons and businesses, the reduction of insurance contributions, which have literally kneeled the free professions and businesses, the suspension of VAT on new buildings to strengthen a sector which was violently affected during the previous 10 years, the provision of incentives to natural persons who contribute investment funds to newly-born enterprises and other tax incentives to strengthen our country's investment environment. Apart from that, however, we have had the very important treatment of exceptional economic events, such as the coronary pandemic, such as natural disasters that hit parts of our country and required concrete financial intervention, support for the health system, support for employment, support for the unemployed and the seasonal workers, support for vulnerable borrowers. In other words, all this time, the Government of New Democracy has supported society in the emergencies and has continued a reform work that we have been commanded by the Greek people since 2019, with main principles of development, reforms, social welfare, support for our weakest fellow citizens, tax and insurance alleviations. Today's budget, a budget under exceptional circumstances, continues this important effort, continues to support society, continues and extend support measures due to the pandemic, continues to provide support for public health, education, the Armed Forces, all these aspects that are crucial to the daily lives of our citizens, but also to safeguard the national interests of our country. It continues, in other words, to give a double mark, on the one hand, to support society and vulnerable people, but also to support reforms, supports strengthening the investment environment, supports the real next day for Greece in 2021. Undoubtedly, the uncertainty that has been caused requires vigilance and adaptability and in 2020 certainly our country's priorities have changed due to extraordinary data. In 2021, however, we continue to support society and reforms. The main pillar is the use of the European resources of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. At this point, we must not forget that our homeland with the negotiating insistence of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has managed and capitalised from the outset, gaining a significant proportion of the funds planned for the countries, so that our country has a significant weapon in its patronage for the next day, so that we can support the problems caused by the pandemic, but also go to the next day standing, strong and with an economic and productive model that is modern and compatible with the needs of the time. To conclude, Mr President, in order not to abuse the time, I should like to say that this budget is characterised by flexibility, social justice, a reformist perspective, supports the country's health system, supports the weak, shields the country against the risks of the present, but also of anyone who can emerge in the future and remains committed to the reform work and the objectives of the Government and Mr Mitsotakis for reforms, development policies, social justice, support for the weak. This is the target for the next day, a target with positive policies rather than an investment in misery and unworthy grievance. For these reasons, I also support and vote in favour of this budget for the year 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u270	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr Papapastasis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Madam President. The budget under discussion for one more year is moving in one direction of class and anti-grassroots. Its main pillar is the enhanced taxation of the people, the support for domestic capital, the opening up of new profit fields for capital, the attempt to load the new capitalist crisis to the people, the deforestation of funds related to meeting social needs. The government is baptising the current crisis as a coronary, except that the economy has been in a state of shrinkage since 2019, that is, long before the pandemic. He misled the people. It hides him that this crisis, too, is another evidence of the deadlock that leads to the capitalist development path. In the dramatic conditions currently experienced by the people, over 4.5 billion is budgeted for equipment mainly to strengthen NATO. NATO Secretary-General Stoltenberg recently, in October 2020, gave the signal. He cynically stated - with the government to be quiet - that the pandemic has not abolished any other challenges, that it remains vital to invest in the naval defence. I mean, this is where the cosmopolitan burns and dies, NATO's hawa! Stoltenberg baptizes natonic defenses, natonic aggression, participation in imperialist interventions, the blood flow of the people, the robbery of wealth production resources. He baptises Natali defence historical events, such as the bloodshed of Yugoslavia, Libya, Syria, Afghanistan and others. Yes, the government accepts the country's criminal involvement in all of this. She accepts it and supports it and extends it. He subscribed to Greece's conversion to an endless American camp. He even adapted the structure of the Greek Armed Forces to American standards. It captures a step-by-step country's shipbuilding and air industry in US companies' plans. He participates in the creation of unprecedented structures to support US armed forces outside the US borders and this here in our country. For the third consecutive year in the budget of the United States of America, expenditure on their bases is increasing. For 2021 there are 78.5 million dollars for their further expansion. The current Greek-American agreement turns our people into a target towards US and NATO competitors. The government's policy hides enormous risks even for a future nuclear blow to the Greek area, although when the appropriate conditions are established. A deceptive climate, a deceptive, deceptive expectation of implementing pharmaceutical equipment, which, allegedly, will ensure the country's territorial integrity and sovereign rights towards Turkey, is cultivated to the people. You have $2 billion to upgrade F-16, 2 billion to supply the Rafale, 5 billion to buy wells and more. You mislead the people and mislead him consciously and drunken, not to say you're cheating on him. Whatever weapon system Greece is supplied, it will in fact be useless as long as it remains attached to the NATO and the European Union chariot. As long as governments are begging those who turn it off, i.e. the United States of America, NATO and the European Union. You know very well that through these armaments, this economic haemorrhage in the conditions given to the people, the winner is NATO first. It is won because with Greek equipment and popular economic bleeding it strengthens its southeast wing. The government is aware of all this, because it is actively involved in naval planning, and is involved with a large number of representatives, military and diplomats, all of them in the east. Its responsibilities are maximized, because NATO and the US, aiming to not lose the second most powerful army of the twilight alliance, the Turkish army, premium Turkish aggression and illegal claims. In this logic, the Government is of the opinion that the concept of 'powerful Armed Forces' is translated into'strong weapon systems'. It firmly outlines the fact that the first and main element of military power is the personnel of the Armed Forces. This is what will give the status of a weapon to a set of metals and electronic circuits. For staff, however, there is no excess of naval billions to meet their fair and stable demands. Their trade unions are showing them every day and desperately. It is the compensation of night work, employment beyond the five-day overtime, overtime, cover the cost of uniforms, cover their shelter in an environment of constant travel, the allocation of travel expenses in any case, address health care issues across this concept, cover travel costs in public transport, and for the military coverage of all costs created by their term of office. There is nothing in your budget, but none of it. In conclusion, the government is serving a system that blows the globe, a system which, as far as its end is concerned, will reveal its appalling face more and more strongly, will become more brutal and more violent. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. The Communist Party of Greece calls on the people to intensify their struggle. It can reverse this situation, cross the wealth produced by workers in their hands, close the bases, release the country from NATO and the European Union and build mutually advantageous international relations with countries, but on the basis of the interests of the peoples of the region rather than the imperialists.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u272	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now Mr Maraveyas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u273	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget is undoubtedly an opportunity for all the parties in this House, an opportunity for the New Democracy and the Government to present its economic plan for 2021, but also for opposition to present their own proposals. At the same time, however, we are all given the opportunity to make an estimate for 2020, to assess overall the work that the Mitsotakis Government had to carry out in a very difficult year, a period of time in which societies worldwide have been tested by the most serious health crisis in the last hundred years, a year when economic superpowers have been engulfed and uncertainty has dominated international trade relations. In this environment, the extraordinary need for our country's defensive pledge has also been added to address the new Turkish challenges in the central and south-eastern Mediterranean. All these challenges and their great economic dimensions were, unfortunately, combined with local natural disasters, such as in Magnesia, which I represent, but also with directed migration flows towards our country. In other words, unstable factors and international developments have shaped an unprecedented state of emergency for the Government in 2020 as well in the economic field. However, the Mitsotakis Government has responded to the challenge by taking a number of measures such as: the payment of the special-purpose compensation to millions of workers, in conjunction with the full cover of the State’s insurance contributions from employees. Clearance with future tax deductions on late payment of VAT. The discount on the regulated tax and insurance liabilities paid in time. The reduction by three units of the premiums for private sector employees. The reduction, even zeroing the advance payment of income tax for natural and legal persons. The abolition of the solidarity levy for private incomes and, of course, the return of retroactive pension cuts, which the Council of State canceled. Within 2020, despite the unprecedented crisis, Greece has taken a number of active employment support measures. We had four cycles of repayable advance, four cycles of special-purpose compensation, the "SON-ERGASIA" programme and the cover of insurance contributions for the creation of 100 thousand new jobs. Thus, according to the latest forecast by the European Commission, Greece is expected to achieve the second largest reduction in unemployment in 2021 among all Member States of the European Union. Only in 2020 did the government grant EUR 24 billion to deal with the pandemic. Of this, exclusively for the support of the ERC with staff and equipment, we have spent 800 million euros. And we are now coming to implement another support programme for society in 2021, with another EUR 7.5 billion available for the consequences of the pandemic only for the next few months. Among these measures, it will be the extension of the repayable advance to other beneficiaries for 2021. At the same time, for 2021, we are providing increased pre-innovation allowances through the OPEKA to support vulnerable groups by EUR 600 million. We are paying extended heating allowance in order to facilitate vulnerable households. The most important thing, however, is that, with the new budget, the New Democracy Government is committed to normally paying for all 2021 all kinds of exceptional allowances, wages, pensions and allowances to employees, pensioners, selfemployed persons and unemployed persons as long as necessary. All this is being done following permanent measures to alleviate households and businesses, which we have implemented since the beginning of new governance, such as the reduction of income tax on natural persons with an import rate of 9% and an increase in tax on every child, the reduction of the EMI by 22%, the exemption from the EMI of small and extreme islands, the reduction of the income tax on legal persons to 24% and the tax on distributed profits to 5%, the suspension of VAT on new buildings, the exemption from the trade charge for farmers and fishermen, the provision of incentives for investment in the green economy, energy, digitalisation and basic research. In fact, the day before yesterday, and the good news from the European Council about the removal of the Recovery Fund and the adoption of the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027. These are new financial programmes, which will total EUR 70 billion and radically change the country's production path. It was, without doubt, a personal success of the Prime Minister, but also of our Government collectively. But unfortunately, there are no national successes. There is only misery and depreciation of any positive measure or favourable development for Greece. And that's because SYRIZA has decided to bet on the disaster. It provides for a constant increase in social controversy from the economy and turmoil everywhere because of the coronary crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that the SYRIZA disaster strategy is a one-way road to it. Because there is quite simply no positive plan for the country, except for overtaxation. Here I must stress that, as in 2020, there is no additional tax on households and businesses in the New Democracy budget in 2021. I would remind you, however, that in the five years of his administration Mr. Tsipras taxed what he found in front of him by collecting people's money in the great surpluses, depriving, in other words, the market and reducing the possibility of the wild taxpayers to meet their consumer needs. Where's SYRIZA finally made all this money? However, not in development, not in public investment, since the national part of the Public Investment Programme has been paid off, neither in new national infrastructure nor in renewal and maintenance of existing public networks. This is something that we have seen, for example, in transport too, with the melting of the railway and the lack of public transport, which you have inherited and experienced very strongly in 2020 with the suffocating conditions imposed by the pandemic. Mr President, only the idea of what would happen today in the country if Mr Tsipras were Prime Minister leads those who have instincts of self-preservation to very unpleasant thoughts. Good luck for our country has fortunately brought us a responsible government, which has tabled a serious political plan for 2021. So without asterisks, we are supporting Mr Mitsotakis and we are voting in favour of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Paul Paulakis has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, as well as the previous colleague, we would say that we had or had a positive project to support the public health system if the budget you submitted had the following: If, instead of 2 billion wages, remuneration to health staff, it had 3 billion people, to move directly to a 50% increase in the wages of the health workforce, the heroes who fight the pandemic. Because apart from applause, workers want bread. We would say that the budget was positive, if it still had one billion more, which would be divided as follows: 300 million increase in the cost of the health system, 200 million increase in the cost limit for the benefits of the EEA, 200 million and not 60 million for the national public investment programme for the development of infrastructure in hospitals and 200-250 million to cover vaccines and medicines. We, SYRIZA, would have brought that budget if we were you. That is the answer, Mr Maraveya, to what we would do. And I will now prove that what you have said - and I also challenge Mr Psulakakis, and I also challenge Mr Staikoras, who is before me now - that we have given EUR 786 million more for COVID this year, you have not given it. You've given a poor girl 200 million so far. To date, you have given EUR 239 million to address COVID for 2020. Not a cent more. In fact, 65 million are shown in the staff expenditure code last year and this year. The difference between 2019 and 2020 is 65 million. We delivered you 583 million and you did it for the auxiliary staff at 645 million. There's 65 million there. Also, 144m euros. I found them all the decisions of the direct assignments they have made and many are controlled to supply personal protective equipment. And you gave the EEAS 30 million to cover the test, which it still doesn't cover. We got December. He doesn't cover it. Let's find a patient throughout the country covered by the EPPY test. That's what you've given for the pandemic. The 260 million that you have so far given to the EEA, instead of 100 million, was to cover insurance contributions, to reduce revenue. Since unemployment has increased, the money received from the FYROM by the FYROM has decreased. What did you cover for? The same needs last year are covered by the 260 million you gave and may give a hundred more until the end of the year. This is not the way to deal with the pandemic. It's funding from the EEA General Accounting Office to cover what he's done so far, not the COVID. For COVID, it's 239 million. Not a cent more. And I challenge you directly to say I'm lying. That's what we would do. Now listen, because for the rest of my speech, I'm going to dedicate it to the main theme. Mr Loverdos came out on television at noon - the journalist, the Member of the New Democracy - and said - and he is not ashamed - that we must have respect for the dead and that we cannot talk about this. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. Because I've fought too much, I've had a lot of nights to save a human life, I've done this twenty years and I've done this again, and now I can't, I can't stand dying a hundred people a day! I can't stand it! We've reached three and a half thousand dead and you're playing the hawk! So I say it, and I'll say why. You've bet all the money on the vaccine. The vaccine is not panacea. Any vaccine, either ‘PFIZER’ with RNA or the other with the attenuated viruses. Although PFIZER wants to transport less than 70 degrees. Where are these infrastructures? They loaded them on Mr. Pierracakis to build the supply chain, because the Department of Health can't make it. There are no such infrastructures. Yesterday the American Rheumatology Society came out and said it was not appropriate to give rheumatoid patients, those taking biological agents, the cortisone-treated ones, to all immunocompromised individuals. So a large part of the susceptible population can't be vaccinated. Yesterday this came out. And today we'd start, now that they're starting to make us all the vaccine, it'd serve four to five months. Until then what's going to happen? Are people gonna die, and we're gonna accept it? Take it a little different. If it was me in the ministerial seats and you down there, what would you say? Listen. I say it for 15 days now and they all do the madness, and the Ministry of Health and the journalists and the media, and unfortunately also a part of the health potential. Listen to me, because you have a responsibility from now on. I'm talking about it in the most official way. There are two treatments right now: One got an emergency approval on November 9th from the FDA. It's the Bamlanivimab antibody. They've taken it now, two hundred and fifty thousand people there. It's like a big phase 4. We don't do it to everyone. We won't do it on the 20th. We'll do it to a vulnerable population, to a sick person who has sinister diseases. It's 80% of those who are bored. In a hundred patients, the eighty - eighty - five, those who evolve badly and need a unit or die are from this category. We're doing this to them. To the hospitals. So it turns out that it reduces 72% the chance of getting a severe illness. Is that what it means? It means we can save half the deaths of those we're experiencing today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do you understand that or don't you understand that? How should I say it? I've been saying it for 15 days. This medicine can come to Greece. When I was Minister, we had often given extraordinary approval for drugs that have been proven to work and which had not been approved by the Coreper. Besides, I hear we've already introduced some vaccines without being approved by the EMA yet. It's information today. Bring this medicine. We'll need about two to three thousand doses a month at the worst of cases. Yeah, a grand does. You gave 250-300m euros for the vaccine. Give me another $15 million for that. There is also a second treatment, which is the only treatment we have at the moment for those who are from the tenth to the fourteenth day of the disease, where the super-inflammatory reaction takes place and we cannot fight them, who develop the severe respiratory distress, the RDS, the multi-organic deficiency and die, which shows that it has a serious effect on them and many are improving and escape. It's not a miraclemaker, but we don't have any more. There is a combination of varicitinib given to rheumatoid arthritis, there is in Greece, and remdesibri. The combination turned out to work. Give the approval to start giving the units this thing. There's Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u276	Mr. Comrade, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u277	I'm done. I'm sorry, and thank you for your tolerance. Give me permission. Move, turn. I can't understand this conspiracy of silence. The vaccine will act in four to five months. We can't stand a society dying a hundred people a day. Do you understand that or don't you get it? That's what has to be done! Do it now! The cost isn't too much. As much as it is a human life if we can get away with it, we have to get away with it. Don't bet all the money. Because that's how fear will start to leave the world. It's terrified of society with all this stuff you're doing. Also, one more suggestion. Test for antigen in southern Greece and test for antibodies in northern Greece. In northern Greece, the institutions are over 50%. They may not need to take vaccine because they are covered and may reduce the cost of the vaccine there too. And so it might end the lockdown.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u278	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u279	Because with this thing you do, "seeing and doing", you only do the "death of the merchant" these days. Nothing else. Absolutely nothing else you do with the click away and all that shit.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u280	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u281	I told you. I've been talking about it for the last time in public and intensely. Move it, because from now on you'll have criminal responsibility!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u282	Mr. Comrade, you're done!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u283	All right, Mrs. Sacorafa! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u284	Mr. Comrade, you spoke ten minutes. What am I supposed to do now? I have to keep a balance in the Chamber. Mr Blucho has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u285	Madam President, after what Mr Paulakis said, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u286	Why, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u287	As a party's parliamentary representative, I would like to say just one thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u288	Please, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u289	Thank you very much. Finally, the Greek solution is vindicated. Mr. Polakis, it separates us from us abyssing ideologically.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u290	Abyss!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u291	Mr Colleague, say what you want without talking to your colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u292	I mean the following. Listen to me, 'cause you have to listen to us. After the speech of the President of the Greek Solution on Thursday, here in plenary, and the political statement by the former President of the Parliament, Mr. Voutsi, who put the concerns to the House, finally came Mr. Paulakis, who is a doctor who is renowned and does not belong to the Greek Solution but to SYRIZA, to tell the reality, to say what we have been calling so long. Vaccines are not panacea. Nobody's against the vaccines. However, no one can be put in favour of compulsoryity. And secondly, the government wants to save and well inoculate the Greek people before producing the medicine that already exists, Mr Velopoulos said the day before yesterday, let it be a little expensive. We're gonna save people, dead, Greeks, of course, we wouldn't lose with the lockdowns and these puppies that are constantly becoming 5 billion euros a month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Come on, Mr. Blucho, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is interesting that Mr Paulakis has now remembered the wage indifference of the doctors of the ESS. So many years no one has spoken and of course in five years there has been no talk. It is interesting, although he forgets, that it is now the ESS that Mr. Paulakis delivered just a year ago as the head of the Ministry of Health and it is interesting, but you must all know and know that for no health in Greece is tolerated, death for anyone. So not to say and not to talk about inaccurate in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u295	How many retrospectively did you get, Mr. Blucho, from SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u296	Please, Mr. Polakis, don't get excited.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u297	Mr. Polakis, please speak to your colleague!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u298	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u299	Please, Mr. Colleague, you were at the Step. Keep going, Mr. Bluehock.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u300	For the last time Mr. Paulakis said, I would ask you not to insult the scientific community of the country and the "government" of the orderly state as to whether it does or will do what is necessary for the pandemic, as all countries do and as the entire scientific community worldwide does. A permanent picture of human and numerical tragedy with reference to alleged political responsibilities is, as it appears, reproduced by public life actors, major and minor opposition, by presidents of professional and non-scientific unions, working on the seal of their professional team and possibly insulting the collectiveity they represent, by rigid fighters who have nothing to do with real heroes in public health, doctors and nurses of the first line who overreacted themselves, without simply continuing to work in hospitals. Pseudocy and mudology mixed with an excess of numerology, narcissistic television pain and a few guesses! Some even wanting to capture the blackness of the disease, not the hope and love of care, have rendered political responsibilities. It's a huge desire to be accounted for after a celebration. Mr. Paulakis proved it. Political negligence, public carnivals - apologies for expression - charity and solidarity. And yet, what is the truth and what is the lie? It is true that the health ministry's expenditure has increased - I will not say numbers - since 2019 in 2020. Nearly the total increase is due to costs associated with the coronary. The truth is that thousands of sanitaries have been hired and that hospital beds have been arranged so that, in principle, only with the existing hospital structures will there be a duplication of beds and health and that the ESS has withstand the pressure of the second pandemic wave. In fact, it was planned to what you blame us, and the entry of private hospitals into the system, if any. With an opposition plunging the numbers, requesting additional thousands of recruits, thousands entered, but calling for thousands of recruits, while the Left's insecurity demand for any disease and all the nonsense, "Appoint now, perpetuate now", sounded like an arrogant cymbal to inspire the masses of the anti-Cultural struggles against the visible enemy - who? The government - as the invisible enemy, the pandemic virus, no one sees it and there is no political profit credit in its symphony of combat. That's opposition malicious. Let's go to subsecution. I refer, for example, to two hospitals, one provincial, one of my own regions, which numerically falls short of doctors' seats at a hundred and a half in total who has at his headquarters the skilled, while in the nursing sector there is 100% completeness thanks to this government, and a very large hospital in Athens, a thousand beds, where the situation is exactly the same. We remain in skilled jobs by twenty-seven. Some people count the numbers differently because they take the assistants out. No matter what contract a man works today at the ESS, he works at the ESS, ladies and gentlemen. Works, is in the system and works in the system. In the empty medical posts of the small hospital or lack of presence of a sufficient number - what can I say? - dermatologists, ophthalmologists, has anything to do with the treatment of COVID? Absolutely nothing. What do we need for this treatment? First of all, specific specialities, pathologists, anesthesiologists, intensifiers. Did you see that specialties exist somewhere in abundance to appoint them tomorrow? These positions have been barren for the ESS since years. Mr. Paulakis, Mr. Xanthos and the whole Opposition. But specialties are now barren. There's no more qualified personnel. Why are we hiding it? You cannot know that the subsidiary lists have been exhausted to the necessary categories of professionals. So who do you want to appoint if they don't exist? It's a great lie that the health system as it claimed collapsed. The president of the L.A.'s came to my district and was raving for the hospital, for the surprise of the unsuspecting, obviously. It's a hospital that was under unbearable pressure from the pandemic phenomenon. We give out of the two hundred and fifty beds we have, the hundred and fifty for a COVID patient hospital - do you understand that? - when a central hospital in Athens gives a hundred and twenty of the thousands it has. Our hospital forces could not be inexhaustible despite their substantial staffing support in the previous period. Why? Because of the large number of staff he has had and is ill and will be in quarantine. And that's the pressure indicator. This pressure will be discharged and discharged by the retardation of all and we wish them a quick recovery from the heart. The simple beds of COVID in existing clinics, as well as ICU beds, were and are exemplary, data and emergency conditions. Our hospitals in the event of the pandemic are seen as living organisms with an unparalleled and life-saving dynamic. All this with the incredible reserves of the strengths of the servants, the real support we have done in this period, the operational plans and the readiness of the administrations of the health regions. Not to honour the presence in the 4th Health Region of Mr. Tsaliki and his agonizing efforts throughout this period, the leadership of the Ministry of Health and the Government in the end and in whole? Looking at the account, because on a pandemic ground that reminiscent of moving sand, you can't argue with passwordous fireworks, for you good is not public health. The good is the appointment to the public, the state's 'leaf tree' and the demonstration of religious famine of every left disease and all nonsense. A project is not health, but a demonstration of power. Who's involved in health? Appointments we want. The bitterness of your concern, suggest it as a medicine and the foam of mass appointings and simulations as a treatment. The government in an environment of moving sand has scheduled regular expenditure of over 4 billion, while it has provided for exceptional circumstances and an additional 3 billion. I do not remember such health sums ever planned for the last decade, but I am not the most appropriate one to number. But it is obvious that the concept of welfare, affection and support for public health as the main factor in caring for the good of public health. It is a pity that in today's difficult situation citizens' confidence in the state is not shaken, because today we have a firm state. Society and the state are no longer indulging in your immoral zealism and negligence. What political avengers do not understand, genome politicians are that in this battle they do not fit and victory is a one-way street. Or we assemble to make the vain possible and agitated or deserted. There are no gray choices.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u301	Mr. Comrade, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u302	I want you to put up with me. You tolerated Mr. Polakis. I apologise and ask for your tolerance. I'm just finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u303	Mr Colleague, please don't raise a problem with the Bureau!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u304	You are dreaming of the ESS of pathogenesis and extreme jurisdictions. Appetitiously and in time as expressors of his chronic pathogens, you are condemning that faith. We'll cost strength for his retrograde. You know very well that our hospitals once, in good years, easily and self-evidently, the years of wear, I mean, operate in less than doubled budgets, and over the last decade, they operate with increased demands, though far less, difficult and difficult. Why? I don't mean the conditions of wear, we all can identify them. I mean that either before, or now, there must be a brave assumption that the one necessary health treaty was not guaranteed. Who? That's the quality service. I would once again point out that it is very well certified that the enthusiastic engine of the ERC has been exhausted for a long time. I'm sure you know that the cognitive and cognitive requirement of funding in general and indefinitely and what and how it is required in the specific model that we have formulated requires possible analytical dives to be accurately determined.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u305	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u306	I shall conclude, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u307	Mr. Colleague, you sure know your time is seven minutes. You're already in ten minutes or four. Please very much. You are creating a problem with the Bureau. Why are you doing this? There are another hundred and eighty of your colleagues who want to speak. You're wasting their time. Do you understand that, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u308	I still need ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u309	I say this for everyone, not just for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u310	I want another ten seconds, and thank you for your tolerance. There has been a fundamental distortion - I am a servant of this national health system - and the ESS has been remembered by the state and also by its own officials, and this is about determining its ownership. Ladies and gentlemen, the ESS exists for the citizens and belongs to our forced fellow citizens and the debt of all of us is to ensure the necessary conditions for the continued optimisation of its quality services. Thank you and apologise for overcoming time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, to be clear, until the end of the sitting, I imagine that tomorrow there are another hundred or eighty of your colleagues to speak. If all of you are misused in time, there will be colleagues who will speak for two and three minutes. If you consider this right, fair and fair in this Chamber, we shall continue to do so. Time is seven minutes, there will be a relative tolerance, not more than eight minutes but fifteen seconds. I'm telling you, honestly. Mrs. Theano Fotio has the floor now by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u312	Ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 budget is anti-social, virtual and provocative, because it reflects two tragic failures of the Mitsotakis Government: the failure to manage the pandemic with about three thousand dead in one month as a result of your ideological obsession not to support anything public, such as the National Health System, and indeed the unheard of, to reduce the costs of the HS for 2020-2021 and the failure, of course, of the economy that recorded the worst recession -11.7% in Europe, because you refused to support businesses, workers and households, as SYRIZA suggested in front of you. We have the third largest reduction in Europe's low-wage incomes. But reducing incomes directly leads to recession and poverty. So the middle strata, that is, households who in 2019 had a decent standard of living while at the same time at risk of a new humanitarian crisis, are being impoverished. For all these European states, they have multiplied their welfare spending to prevent the massive recession. We proposed emergency income in May. Alexis Tsipras said it again 15 days ago. Refugee it. This is one and a half million households and three and a half million populations, of which at least one member, have received no aid. They are all those for which there is not a single euro in the 2021 budget. Tell me if I'm wrong, Minister. Unemployed, precarious workers, with blooming, seasonal, farmers, people with disabilities, workers with culture, free professionals and self-employed: these are the invisible to the incomprehensible Prime Minister. For these, we proposed 400 euros to the first adult member of the household, 200 euros to each additional adult and 100 euros to each child. Those were not all indecent and poor in 2018 and 2019. They come from middle layers that you have deceived appallingly. But for the New Democracy, as for the Pissaridis project, welfare is only about extreme poverty, that is, those who have an income of up to EUR 2,400 per year. You gave them the 2020 8 million less than 2019 and you achieved the impossible, to give a double allowance in December. This is a double miracle by Mr Mitsotakis and Mrs Michailidou. So you gave them 54 million less to extreme poor people in the time of pandemic, to return them, to give them a Christmas present. Shame on you, Mrs. Undersecretary. Shame on you to tell us that you also increased the beneficiaries. How is that possible? The division, can't you do it? You did the same for the most deprived elderly. We cut them 4 million in 2020 and continue in 2021. The elderly are affected by the pandemic multiples, the coronary reaps them in public and private homes. You did not perform repeated tests, the ongoing checks we told you about from the first moment, you still did not give the health equipment you announced in August yet. Why, Mr. Undersecretary? Is this reassurance or incompetence or at last, do you not feel any responsibility for it? Same for the disabled. To them you cut 97 million in 2020, you will cut 88 million in 2021. The numbers are clear. Answer me. You rejected twice an amendment to the SYRIZA for a double disability allowance at Christmas. This reduction is a premise of new reductions brought about by the Pissaridis project through the disabled’s functionality assessment system. You will be able to cut pensions and disability benefits in 2021 with the same plan that we rejected and did not do and which the IMF wanted to impose on us in 2015. Do you agree, Mr. Labour Ministers and Undersecretaries? You are also cutting off 6 million for the housing allowance. The costs for the child shall be reduced by EUR 49 million in 2020. Not one euro more for school meals in 2021. In 2021 we would give six hundred thousand meals a day to all the primary school children. You did not put a single euro on hot Mediterranean meals. Even the birth allowance that you would have solved in demographic terms - we have heard it before, if possible - you did not manage to absorb it in 2020, Minister, and that is why you will increase by 45 million more in 2021, not of course because the births have increased, since in the first half of 2020, a thousand children have been born less than in 2019. You are advertising each with different dusty large increases for welfare. What do your MPs say? '534 million more for the welfare.' What did the Minister say? '600 million'. Where did the Undersecretary get it? '747 million'. Let's finally tell us what it is. But what is certain is that the 380 million of what you advertise is for the "GEOFYRA" programme and the bankruptcy code. The FAO failed to pay up to now 9.9 million, Minister. But when Greece is the first in the pandemic to overcompensation for households, I cannot imagine and I find it disgusting to say in the budget that you will apply the bankruptcy code with 100 million. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, what you said about tolerance and me. So you think 2021 is the time for citizens to lose their first residence in the pandemic. In other words, expenditure on six allowances for children, the elderly, the most deprived and the disabled in 2020 fell by 164 million. For the five of these six allowances, the Pissaridis report proposes to merge to one, to the minimum guaranteed income. So this is approved by Mrs. Michaelidou? Is that what it means? That all the allowances they received and the middle layers cease to be taken and only the poor, the extreme poor will get them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u313	You've got to close up, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u314	You're right, I'm closing. Preferential expenditure is anti-development for you. We consider them to be developmental, because we believe that they are mainly reducing inequalities and ensuring social cohesion. We increased from 789 million in 2015 to 3,5 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u315	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u316	You're right. And we believe that the welfare state will always intervene to face inequality conditions with a new security net like emergency income...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u317	Madam Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u318	You're right, Madam President. We're not going back. We are voting against the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u320	Madam President, for one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u321	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u322	To have a sense of numbers, because here we will forget what we know, I would like to say the following: in 2019, the total expenditure of the OPECA on pre-school allowances in the last budget that your government has done was 3,200. In 2020, total expenditure was 3,600 as an estimate of implementation. And 2021 is 4.190.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u323	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u324	To say what took place in 2019, Minister, not what we put in. Disprove me of what I said one by one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u325	The Foreign Minister, Mr Besiropoulos, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, twelve months ago when we discussed the 2020 state budget, no one had thought of what would follow and I am talking about the pandemic event and its consequences. Prior to this, the Greek economy had entered a steady growth track, while continuously strengthening the climate of market confidence. The pandemic put the world and the Greek economy in a orbit of recession. But the difference is that in international markets it is still expressed and confirmed trust in the Greek economy, as is confirmed by the great majority of citizens' confidence in the government. I don't intend to enter party controversy. Our main concern is the new needs of the citizens and the economy. From the first moment on, a stable project for us has been to keep the economy alive and upright businesses, to support workers and to prevent job losses. This has also been done with substantial support measures. We have taken measures and made EUR 24 billion in 2020 and EUR 7.5 billion in the first months of 2021. These measures include the provision of liquidity to enterprises through the financial instruments, such as the repayable advance of EUR 5,54 billion, the working capital under the TPIX II Entrepreneurship Fund of EUR 2 billion, as well as the Guarantee Fund of the Greek Development Bank of EUR 5,2 billion, totalling EUR 12,7 billion. In addition, special-purpose allowances, prolongation of unemployment benefits, the 'COMPANY WORK' programme, reduction of rents with corresponding compensatory measures for owners of immovable property. The government's message to Greek society is that we have taken and will continue to take what is needed to support the real economy, the workers, the businesses and all those who really need it. We will continue to do so until we return to normality, which comes closer to the discovery of the vaccine. At the same time, the prospect of using the European resources of the Recovery Fund and the new programming period 2021-2027 illustrates the certainty of a dynamic Greek economy. Ladies and gentlemen, in politics and the economy there are different concepts of fiscal policy. The differences between our government and the previous government are given and obvious. These differences have become even more evident in the past eighteen months, especially during the pandemic period. They were reflected in the 2020 budget and are reflected in both the 2021 budget and in the government's institutional intervention in the field of fiscal policy. The previous government has taken the easy path of overtaxation that has cut growth. That is why none of the forecasts for growth were confirmed in the four budgets which it tabled and voted for during its term of office. We have made it clear from the first day of taking responsibility for governance that we have been committed to tax reduction policy. The reduction of HPAI by 22%, the reduction of the tax rate for businesses from 28% to 24%, the reduction of the dividend tax from 10% to 5%, the reduction of the initial tax rate for natural persons from 22% to 9% while increasing the tax rate by 1 000 euros for each child and regardless of the number of children protected was only the beginning. If the pandemic had not taken place, we would have gone ahead with additional tax relief. Even at this juncture, however, we have made direct institutional contributions towards reducing taxes. I would point out, for example, the reduction and, in many cases, the zeroing of the tax advance for companies affected by the pandemic, the reduction of VAT on transport, on certain products of the focus and on the tourist package. However, even in the 2021 budget drawn up under the pressure of the financial constraints, no new taxes or an increase in existing taxes are included. We also include tax reductions and insurance charges. I am referring to the suspension for one year of the solidarity levy with beneficiaries of private sector workers, incomes, professions and farmers, the extension of the power of reduced VAT rates until 30 April 2021 for specific goods and services - these include goods necessary for the treatment of pandemics - and the reduction of three units of insurance contributions by private sector employees, the suspension of the fee for pay-TV, the application of the excessive deductions for digital and green investment, the exemption from income tax and the solidarity levy for 50% of the income earned by employees and individual business activity for those who carry their tax residence in Greece, a measure that aims to be an incentive to return to the country of the Greeks and, in particular, the Greeks of the new generation who left the country in the years of crisis. Incidentally, some colleagues from the Anti-Fraud Office on the occasion of the forecasting of the budget for an increase in tax revenue to EUR 47.83 billion compared with EUR 44.26 billion this year, claim that the increase in tax revenue is translated into a new tax when there is no new tax, nor a tax increase. On the contrary, there is a reduction in tax and insurance burdens. That's our difference. Some are aware of the increase in tax revenues as a product of taxation. We seek to increase tax revenue through growth, through the production of wealth for the country. And the conditions for increasing tax revenue through high growth rates are given. Investments through the Recovery Fund will increase. Tourism with the advent of the vaccine is expected to recover at European and global level in 2021. The consumption will be increased if one calculates that it has been maintained at a satisfactory level during the pandemic period and at the same time, household savings have increased. From there on, institutional interventions have been initiated in the field of fiscal policy and others will follow in the direction of facilitating citizens and modernising tax administration. I am referring in summary to the new framework of arrangements for the debts created during the pandemic period, the reincorporation into the regulation of a hundred or a hundred twenty instalments or an out-of-court mechanism for those who lost it. We are giving a second chance to those who were unable to respond to these favourable regulations at this time. All of them are revivaling the specific arrangement they had with all its benefits. I am also referring to the suspension of tax and insurance obligations by 30 April 2021 for those affected by the pandemic. In the direction of facilitating the citizen, it is also the implementation that allows the declaration of immobilisation of passenger vehicles electronically, without a personal presence in the DUs. I would also remind you that, in order to facilitate the fulfilment of their obligations, the payment of travel fees is extended until 26 February 2021, as is the position of vehicles in voluntary immobilisation. I must also refer to a major and substantial innovation, in the new framework of the Committee on Tax Dispute Settlement, which has as a strategic objective, through a fully electronicised procedure, the dismantling of administrative justice, the rapid resolution of outstanding tax disputes and the stimulation of tax revenue. I should like to point out that this new framework gives the possibility of reducing the interest on additional taxes, surcharges and fines to 75%. But above all, the involvement of citizens in long-term judicial struggles is ending.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u327	I'm gonna need two minutes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u328	All right, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u329	Another step in the future is electronic books. The electronic invoicing will reduce the financial and administrative costs for businesses and professionals. Time-consuming and peculiar procedures will be in the process of dealing with tax matters, and tax refunds will proceed immediately. A few days ago the government brought and voted by parliament on the reduction of the smuggling of fuels, tobacco products and alcoholic beverages and other products. It is a bill based on recording all the gaps in monitoring and control that existed in the existing context of dealing with smuggling. We have made progress in upgrading the existing coordinating operational centre to deal with smuggling, which is now being supervised by a government committee to curb smuggling, established by a recent ministerial decision. The Committee itself will also monitor the implementation of the monitoring and data transmission system for liquid fuel and LPG outputs. At the same time, the installation and control through the GPS geographical tracking system in tankers and floating equipment are carried out and all LPG storage facilities must be integrated into the input-output system and molecular detection of these products is provided for. The activation of new ones and the development of existing electronic monitoring systems for the supply chain of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products are safeguards for the reduction of smuggling. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 budget was drawn up under specific conditions that we are all experiencing. It's realistic with clear and concrete targeting. The return to strong and sustainable growth rates, the support of the real economy, businesses and workers, the maintenance of jobs and the reduction of tax and social charges is reflected in the budget. The large social majority after eighteen months of governance continues to surround Mr.Mitsotakis and the Government of New Democracy with confidence. The majority of this House as an expression of this popular will confirm citizens' confidence in the Prime Minister and the Government in voting for the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, too. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Skourletis, has requested the floor. You have the floor for two minutes, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u331	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to ask the Minister who has just spoken. Minister, do you really believe that suspensions of commitments of natural persons and businesses to insurance funds and taxation constitute budgetary expenditure? Do you think the loans through the repayable advance constitute financial expenditure? For it is incomprehensible what your Minister, Mr Stagioras, said yesterday, is incomprehensible, which has just left, which said: 'But good, should we not cover them?' Of course they will be reflected in the deficit, but why should you cover it when there is an escape clause throughout Europe at one time and there is no stability pact? So what kind of public economic mathematics are these? It is what is needed to convince us that you have given 24 billion while that is only 6.7 billion. And I would ask you very much, when we submit data to the House, we should also see the last column, where it says on what date for each country the specific expenditure is concerned. If the figures for some countries are not up to date for three or four months, then do not bring them and claim that you can compare them to the costs incurred by the Greek State on 21 September. It was also mentioned that no country adopted what SYRIZA proposed through the program "We Stay upright I" and "We Stay upright II" to cover the wage costs of the pandemic companies. The case of France and the Czech Republic, which in 100% covered this cost, what is it? The case of Sweden covered by 82% to 96%, what is it? The Netherlands with 90%, what is it? That is why we are again in the last positions, second of all since the end, in relation to the reduction in the income of employees. In any case, I shall end, Madam President, this 8% increase in tax revenue, which you have already established is not the result of new taxes, but is the result of growth. What development? The 0.9% predicted by the OECD? Even with 4%, which is inappropriate, what you predict, 8% increase in tax revenue cannot be achieved. And finally, if you really want young scientists to come back, take the first safe step, a big recruitment plan in the public health system. Fifteen thousand recruits to start now for medical and nursing personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u332	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, Madam President. To respond as far as possible to one by one. Firstly, with regard to the repayable advance and the suspensions, I should like to inform you, in order to find out a little bit about the budget, that the advance is included in the deficit at the rate that is deemed not to be reimbursed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u334	When will that be, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u335	There is a degree of risk in these resources, and the European Commission uses a percentage, and it captures it there. So do we. There is, of course, a large part of it now which will not be returned anyway because we give it back. Secondly, the European Commission is again recording expenditure measures and revenue measures, such as suspensions, and passing them on to the deficit, which it considers to be financial intervention. Now'structurals' may not be regarded as budgetary intervention, but, in fact, budgets are considered. Thirdly, I read with great interest what you said about the OECD today. Only you didn't say exactly the way it is in this House. We're not talking about expenditure. We are talking about communications, that is, commitments, that is, announcements. The table you have given us is not a cost table so it has some meaning if they were spent in March, April or May. It is a table where governments have announced what they will give this year more for their health system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u336	Minister, you testified him to the painting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u337	Let me finish because you're annoyed by what I'm saying, it's obvious. No, the painting started by SYRIZA and Mr. Stakouras brought him up-to-date. Also, in the same table, which you say "substantially from the end" you have not looked at the footnotes, which say that we only put the OECD countries that had a significant cost increase commitment. Of the thirty-six OECD countries it has only twenty-four countries. The other countries did not have a significant commitment to spending, to know what is going on. Finally, let's go to the new scientists. Listen, you did everything you could with overtaxation to kick out the new scientists. That's the reality. The stones know her, too. And young scientists can't, when three hundred and four hundred thousand have left, go back because you're going to have some recruitments, if you'd come, extra to the public. It is possible that recruitment should be carried out, but coordinates, based on the needs, not on your communication needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u338	Samara's gone!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u339	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, ladies and gentlemen. And we enter the sixth circle of speakers, and Mr. Hadjivassiliou has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to ratify the budget for next year under the unprecedented conditions of the pandemic, at an extremely difficult time for the whole world. We have to ensure that the country not only will be able to withstand the economic pressure that is under way due to the health crisis, but will be ready to come out stronger than before. The situation requires a plan and seriousness, which is available to the current government of the country. We therefore have in front of us a budget that will bring the country out of the crisis and achieve the targets for sustainable growth and GDP growth, a budget for national realisation and sustainable development, absolutely realistic in terms of the sizes and forecasts it contains, a budget that the EUR 3 billion special reserve will support households and businesses as well as the first period of next year. However, in 2021 no new tax is foreseen, absolutely no one. And that is the main development axis of this budget. I have already mentioned the Step forward that the current government is investment-friendly. It has therefore succeeded in restoring the credibility of our economy internationally. The economic climate index has finally exceeded the European average and remains stable there. And this is reflected in the historically low interest rates of Greek bonds. For example, the five-year-old flirts sharply at the negative interest rate and just before the country first managed in its history to borrow an annual bond at a negative interest rate. In addition, there are many and substantial reforms going on. Accelerating projects, necessary privatizations. It is promoted to save organisations such as ELVO, ELTA and others. We create a friendly environment for every economic activity that brings investment in an international range, such as PFIZER, MICROSOT, VOLKSWAGEN, Leros and others. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has drawn up a comprehensive and coherent national strategic development plan with priority for attracting investment, promoting innovation, green development, technological upgrading. That is why it insists on tax reductions, green investment incentives, newly created companies and research and technology companies, insists on lowering the tax advance, offsetting and deducting the tax liabilities. We have therefore brought a reduction in insurance contributions, a reduction in income tax with an import rate of 9%, a reduction in income tax on legal persons to 24% and more. So we take care of every citizen's pocket, worker, professional, entrepreneur, retired. This government leaves no one behind and Greece has managed to protect the labour market and will continue to do so until the end of the pandemic. With the measures taken, income losses have been reduced, so Greece has reached the third pan-European level to cover incomes. In the meantime, we have presented the recovery fund, which was accepted with very positive comments from the first countries. We have also secured resources from REACT - EU. So in 2021 the resources that Greece will raise will exceed EUR 5 billion and our aim is to create stable and better paid jobs, which will obviously increase per capita income in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has been said about the pandemic. But I would like to remind you that this year this government gave an additional EUR 800 million to the Ministry of Health outside the budget. Recruitment of the ESS has exceeded seven thousand and the ITH beds in the hospitals have doubled, finally reaching the European average. So after this pandemic, the ESS will be more powerful than ever. Apart from public health, priority has been given to supporting businesses and their workers. So basic care remains for jobs to be lost, and the government has managed to keep the country's business world up using what it had at its disposal, giving life-saving rescue to the companies that were seriously affected. For example, in my region, in Serres, the amount of the repayable advance reached about EUR 27 million for seven thousand businesses. The loans granted to local enterprises under COVID and TEPIX II amounted to almost EUR 40 million, and that is what we should add EUR 6.3 million from the special-purpose compensation. As for workers, one and a half billion euros have been allocated to their support throughout the territory to date. In our region in Serres, too, an area where, unfortunately, unemployment is a major problem for the government of EUR 10 million for specific purposes compensation for workers. And for the next day, there is an ambitious programme for strengthening employment by covering insurance contributions and creating hundreds of thousands of new jobs, as well as supporting long-term unemployed people. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the opposition colleagues. Several of them have launched heavy accusations against the government, those who have managed to eliminate the middle class and expel investment from the country, those who claim exclusion in social sensitivity and protection of the weak. To all of these, therefore, the New Democracy Government responds with a budget of law, with a strong social figure, which provides incentives to deal with infertility, which increases by EUR 600 million the social benefits that goes ahead with the Christmas heating allowance. And we're not talking about an oil bonus. We're talking about a heating allowance that's normal. It strengthens social tourism and, in addition, grants the monthly instalment of loans for vulnerable households in our country. The government, therefore, listens to society, perceives the needs of the citizens and uses every means to support workers and businesses. The budget vote means support for the next day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u341	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, for being consistent in your time. Now Mr Arachovitis has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u342	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the country has the misfortune to be governed in the most critical period of its modern history by a government below the occasion, a government working on pandemic, to destroy the middle-class, small and medium-sized businessmen, traders and craftsmen, workers and young people, new generations, a government that with three thousand dead in a month does not understand what is happening to health, society and the economy. And the worst part is that, apart from not realizing it, he refuses to hear the voices of those who shout their anxiety and that he is heading the wrong path. He does not listen to the agony of farmers and farmers, he does not listen to professionals in tourism and focus, he does not listen to the hazard signals emitted by exporters. You celebrate, ladies and gentlemen of the government, for suspensions of payments, but you do not listen to the concern of society about the accumulation of obligations. All this is, of course, reflected in the state budget that we are discussing today. In its lines, all of this is captured and even more. The 2021 budget is extremely poor for the primary sector. In view of the conditions established within the coronary pandemic, there is in particular no single euro support for the sectors affected for the primary sector. While the year 2020 provided for 150 million, there was no single euro for the new financial year 2021.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u343	They haven't hurt yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u344	Is that what you predict? That they won't hurt? Yes, sir. That's brilliant. You should tell the farmers. On the contrary - and here we see what you are going to say - within the current year that is registered to be 150 million, in the budget, a sub-committee is being set up and that by the end of the year you will only have an absorption of 78 million. Even the rest does not appear to be going to the new year's budget to support the primary sector. But we also have a hypothesis in the rural development programme. The 100 million less take-offs from the European Union for rural development mark the establishment of the programme and the uptakes that exist so far are from programmes launched by the SYRIZA Government. No new measure absorbs money, leaving the funds from the European Union unexploited at this time. But the budget also reveals something else. Not only does it involve measures of permanent relief to farmers in these circumstances, such as the reimbursement of excise duty on oil, but it has another new oil raisin since the beginning of the year. It's a charm imposed by the Ministry of the Environment. After the cheering that took place in 2020 on fishing vessels, a new raisin comes in oil, which will be understood by farmers using oil engines for pumping water, water, traffic, cultivation. They'll understand it with the good day of the new year. At the same time, costs for employees at the Ministry remain the same. Obviously, the recruitments to the central offices of the Ministry which we had planned as the SYRIZA government are also frozen in 2021. At the same time, one million is directly allocated for studies that Greek scientific bodies could do. The Government and the Ministry of Rural Development present the Recovery Fund as a rescue. But their logic is unique: to promote what has a degree of maturity. There's no vision, no plan, no stated target. The proposals are very shallow and in no way innovative, and in any case they cannot respond to the challenges of the time we live in. Our logic of exploiting the Recovery Fund is moving towards shielding domestic production against crises, whether these crises are climate, whether they are economic, or health, as they are now. In the absence of a proposal for primary production, however, the Government adopts the proposals of the Pissaridis Committee. All proposals shall address or propose individual incomplete arrangements or interventions that do not comply with a specific target. It does not focus on the possible advantages of Greek agricultural production, so that, by exploiting them, it will subject the tools to the target. There is no reference to the text in predominant critical terms, such as the sustainability and durability of agricultural holdings, but also any reference to the vulnerability of agricultural income, as demonstrated by the health crisis. Where support was made for the effects of the pandemic - farming, cultivation or activities in the primary sector - these were both temporary and inferior to actual losses and excluding much of the actual producers. Fishermen. One out of 20 professionals received support in the 'provisional cessation of fishing activities' measure. Eagle sheep farmers. One in ten sheep and goats will not receive the special aid of EUR 3.9. Olive oil producers. Approximately half other than aid from measure 2.1. Acting on people's markets. Seven out of ten people's markets were left out. Vine growers. Only one in eight is entitled to the ‘Green Tree’ programme. The absolute failure and inadequacy of industry support. A repayable advance. Here and now! Six out of ten farmers' main occupations are non-refundable advance. You are creating two speed farmers. In short, ladies and gentlemen, very little, too late and too few. This government has taken final divorce from society and remains its formal ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u345	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Bougas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has faced and continues to face three unprecedented crises since March, the pandemic, the crisis in Greek-Turkish, the crisis in the economy. I would add a fourth, institutional crisis, the lack of seriousness and responsibility of the Vice-President. We would all call it a political storm, where no one wants to think about what would happen if SYRIZA were to take out as long as SYRIZA ruled. The budget to be voted on aims to overcome the unprecedented and multi-level crisis. It lays the foundations, not only for the country's sooner recovery, but also for restoring the healthy and widespread development of our economy and society, which are so hard to experience. The problems caused by the crisis have not shaken the government's reformist effort. The ministers and colleagues spoke about the measures taken in 2020. Let me stress what justifies the growth assessment in 2021. I am referring to the following: the confidence our country enjoys in the markets, in the European funds that the Government has secured under the Recovery Fund, in the reforms that are to be implemented, in the reductions in taxes and contributions, in the strengthening of the liquidity programmes to be continued in 2021, such as the repayable advance, TPIX II and the Guarantee Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, the achievement of high growth targets in the context of globalisation requires rapid action by the administration and rapid decisions by the judiciary, which in modern states is a solid pillar of growth and contributes to the economic well-being of the people. Justice is crucial to the economy as well. The great vulnerability of Greek justice, that is to say the delay in its award, is not solved by small and painless interventions. Synergies, long-term reforms are required, without taking into account the political or party costs. Since last year the Ministry of Justice has strengthened, as you know, the mediation institution, which gradually and with the encouragement of the state and the legal world has been developing as a basic alternative to resolving private differences. The government is going on dynamically in the reforms necessary for a more rapid administration of justice. In this context, a set of regulations concerning the functioning of the Court of Auditors and the possibility of setting up special chambers in the major courts in the country to deal with major development issues has been adopted, not only to regain lost territory, but also to make it possible to return to upward orbit. In addition, the Ministry of Justice has recently faced an outstanding situation that comes from the past, from the previous government, thus responding to the country's international and European commitment, the challenge of closing the proceedings opened in the context of the implementation of Law 3869 of 2010, the duration of which has or is in danger of exceeding the reasonable time limits, as laid down in Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. This is a reform law, as for the first time an electronic file is drafted, which marks the transition to the e-Time for Justice. Next year, the Ministries of Justice and Digital Governance take legislative initiatives for the electronic execution of more procedural acts, for the electronic performance of procedural documents, for the issuance and receipt of judicial certificates, for the electronic submission of procedural documents. This will bring about a reduction in costs for the administration of justice and for the conduct of procedural acts, and a large part of the spiritual potential spent on these activities will be liberated. It is also noteworthy that the recent, institutional character, incision to justice, the unification of Prosecutors of Corruption and Economic Crime, with the creation of the Athens Department of Economic Crime, which is a Department of Economic Crime. The Government of New Democracy insists on the institutional immunity of justice so that phenomena that have shaken public life are not reappeared and are already investigated by justice. The above, together with respect for judicial independence and state compliance with judicial decisions, create a more friendly investment environment in our country with favourable consequences for the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the real development and use of resources that are expected to flow from the Recovery Fund requires projects in the region that can create employment conditions everywhere. Since 2004, and every year, I have had the honour as Members of Parliament of the Fokidas to speak on the budget, I am referring to a great and very important task for Central Greece, but also for the whole country. I will not get tired of talking about the need to build it until it is implemented. Minister, this is the connector of the Thermopylon - Itea - Antirios, which will connect the country's major roads, the Athens-Thessaloniki National Road, the E-65 with the Ionian Road and the Rios-Antirio bridge. This road will create great opportunities for tourist and commercial development for Central Greece and the northern Peloponnese. There are mature studies on its construction and we have recently seen it included in the draft report on financing from the Recovery Fund. This is, of course, a major and decisive step in the implementation of an extremely important project. Ladies and gentlemen, at the most difficult time the government supported the economy, business and workers. Its efforts are recognised by the international community and the Greek society. Citizens in their overwhelming majority trust the Prime Minister and the Government. They turn the back on the images of misery made by the Anti-Population, with extreme, populist, sometimes hailed, but indifferent to the citizens. In 2020 we faced the difficult days of the crisis. In 2021, celebrating two hundred years of freedom, we will hopefully face the challenge of growth. I urge you to vote in favour of the budget. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u347	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Ilhan Ahmet has the floor now from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living without doubt, because of the pandemic of the coronary, in a gruesome reality, a reality characterised by the fear of disease, the loneliness imposed by the ban on movement, the suspension of data, freedoms and rights. Most of all, however, we are experiencing a new economic crisis that seems to be coming and will be the dominant feature of the new normality. Along with everything else, you are bringing before us today a make-up budget, a budget in which the estimate of the recession has been revised three times. Of course, you tell us that the recession is the result of your pandemic and not of your political choices. Unfortunately, this is as true as it is that, because of the pandemic, the country has successfully passed into the digital age. The bureaucracy was actually upgraded to electronics and I will acknowledge you how you managed to abolish the fax to the public. The coronary epidemic revealed the problems of infrastructure and the poor quality of the network, especially now that teleworking, teleworking, and access to health services, markets, and even entertainment exclusively via the Internet. We have low speeds, high prices on cell phones and bills, and daily network failures are data, as are the Minister for Digital Governance to ask people not to enter the internet during peak hours so that teleworking does not collapse. Do you realize that we are living at a time when access to the Internet is not just a right, but is it a condition for the healthy exercise of all other citizens' rights? I guess not. Because if you understood it, you would do something about buying a mobile phone cartel, which forces Greek consumers to pay for Internet use. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to also speak about Thrace, which has dealt with our political system on the occasion of the establishment of the intergroup committee, but also about its citizens who have learned in recent years to see the projects falling short of expectations. This does not mean, however, that the Thraces are ready to accept with their heads their fate, their poverty and chronic development, nor to tolerate the mockery and false promises of this government. I should like here to address Mr Voridis, the Minister for Rural Development. From this step you have answered twice my topical questions in the last 15 months - since you became a government, that is, on 19 September - for 2018 allowances for tobacco and cotton for Thrace. They are losses certified as capable of being included in the State Aid Programme by the competent authorities of the Region of East Macedonia and Thrace, i.e. certified ad hoc losses. And because the writings are left, Mr Vorides, and no one can escape his words, simply saying "writing incorrect" to you, I am reading your own words to see a little bit of your credibility in this government. Mr Vorides says: 'Because I think that the committee - he means the committee that will set up - leaves a window, my position on this particular issue is that a special scientific committee will be set up which requires the law in order to determine whether tobacco could actually be included in this programme', i.e. in the PES. At the same meeting Mr Vorides said about cotton 'I am not going to give anything, because he does not meet the conditions'. He finally gave for cotton - well he did and gave - while for tobacco, although he promised and even though there is certification, he has not given. I ask you directly. Where's the conclusion of this special scientific committee? When did he set up? Whose scientists consisted of? Who signed it? What's his conclusions? With what reason - if the compensation of the tobacco producers in Thrace were cut? Listen, Minister. With Thrace and the thirty thousand tobacco producers you can't play. You don't have the right to either your party or your mock them. The story that tobacco is cut because it is cultivation that does not bring added value to the Greek economy, does not "selling" and is a lie. As soon as yesterday, British American Tobacco ordered significant investments, bringing two hundred new jobs to Greece and a total of EUR 3 billion of taxes to the Greek economy. As you know very well, companies of this size work using the variety of basmas, at their best raisins, that is, there is also an economic impact on tobacco producers' support in the national economy either by taxes or new jobs. In Xanthi, 15m euros were invested just three months ago by companies that sourced tobacco from Thrace. You, Mr. Voridis, why do you want to eliminate the smoke from Thrace? Why do you not support Mr Vorides, the farmers, the cherry producers, the potato producers, cotton producers in Thrace? Why are they poor farmers? Why are they minority? Why do you think they're the easy victims and they can't pressure you? You Plan, gentlemen of the government, if you believe that. The world's response to Thrace will be overwhelming. Their indignation roots out my fellow citizens and leads them abroad as immigrants. However, I would like to make a few other points. It goes without saying that at the same wavelengths there are minority rights, the institutional issues that we are discussing in the intergroup, which are at a standstill. In other words, there is a stagnation everywhere on the issues of education, the vaults, the muft, the clubs. There is no mobility, no initiative, no substantial debate on these issues, no prospect of changing the grim reality of negative intervention on all issues relating to the core of these rights. For all these reasons and many more that the honourable Members will be presenting from the Change Movement will be voting against the budget that you are bringing before us today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now the Deputy Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Papathanase, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u350	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of the second wave of this murder pandemic. The budget you are calling for is a realistic plan, a plan that wants to mark the growth and acceleration of the economy in a difficult time. It is a project that also has a developmental and pro-investor character. It supports the market and entrepreneurship. Promote green growth. It promotes the digital transformation of our country. It provides for a reduction in taxes and insurance contributions, a suspension of payment of a special solidarity contribution to the private sector and provides incentives for investments in the green economy and energy. At the same time, it has social status. It strengthens the health system and the GEOFHYRA programme on the grant of first home to borrowers affected by the COVID pandemic. It supports employment and our unemployed fellow citizens. The pandemic tested the reflexes and resistance not only of the state, but also of the entire society. He asked the question of how the state responds, but also business, in situations of crisis. The answer lies in the change and adaptability of all of us in these new circumstances. Our fellow citizens and businesses have shown patience and responsibility. The government has provided and will continue to provide tools for strengthening the economy. All the programmes developed outside the Guarantee Fund were aimed at safeguarding jobs. We protect jobs by energising the 'COMPANY - WORK' programme and setting a non-dismissal clause. We have provided liquidity to businesses, particularly to small and small enterprises, even to the individual, who do not have access to the banking sector. We supported the real economy by achieving the absorption of the NRP 2014-2020 at present close to 60%, when we received it at 27% in July 2019. Now the real challenge is the next day, our 2021 planning and the prospects for society and the market in the post-COVID era. From the outburst of the pandemic to this day, we have handled the cash available wisely and rationally, supplementing the outputs with inputs and successful exits to the markets, at very low borrowing costs. This fact allows us to continue to strengthen the economy no matter how much it takes. The budget submitted clearly provides for support for jobs and small professionals. The cash flow initially strengthened the market was EUR 24 billion for 2020 and another EUR 7,5 billion from the budget for 2021 is provided for. At the same time, it provides incentives to investors who want to invest in Greece, such as the over-depreciation of research and development costs and the over-depreciation of investments in a green economy, energy and digitisation. At the same time, the reform of Law 4412 on public procurement, which comes to the House, will offer more transparency, but mainly speed in the execution not only of works but also of procurement competitions of the Greek State. Ladies and gentlemen, the development strategy we are implementing therefore focuses on direct investment strengthening, revival of industrial policy and the rapid adaptation of human resources to the requirements of the time. In order to transform industrial production and be able to talk about real benefits of companies at cost and efficiency level, a new development model is needed, with a catalyst of digital and technological transformation. The fourth industrial revolution is here. We are implementing very important actions that embrace new technologies and which aim to integrate them both into production methods and into the human potential of businesses. The Internet of things, artificial intelligence and robotics are now an integral part of our policies. Our aim is to turn towards a digital and green transition, to strengthen business competitiveness and to create new jobs. The Government has prepared a coherent recovery fund utilization plan that will create conditions for speeding up our economy and combined with the NSRF 2021-2027 will act as a multiplier for growth. We don't have time to waste. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is determined to implement its reform plan in order to reach the final goal, which is not to make Greece a modern, extrovert and competitive country. It is our national duty to work to get Greece back on its feet and to have the role it deserves in the world. I would like to congratulate the Minister of Finance, Mr Stavoura, the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Psulakakis, the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Vessiropoulos and all the financial staff for the amazing work they have done all along, and I would like to call on everyone to vote in favour of this budget, because it is a budget of hope and development. We deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, Minister. Mr Chryssomalis from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u352	Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are today in the budget debate, which started yesterday and will end on Tuesday night, a debate considered by the most important parliamentary procedures every year. And while that is the case, I still have a feeling - and I am not mistaken about it - that for society to a large extent it is a gloomy debate, especially for two reasons: firstly, because it is the nature of the debate. And I mean, a budget has the accounting part for the year it left and the appreciation for the year it comes. It makes sense in terms of the assessment that there are disagreements and that objective data can not be easily understood. To come, however, and especially the Civic Opposition to question the data for the past year, sincerely, that is what tires society and you are judged of it, because, as you know, by the digitisation of the state and the so many independent authorities that exist - both Greek and European - we have reached the point of having an objective duplication of the data and no one needs to question it. The truth is that when the numbers and the data and the irreversible truth that they show is not in line with the SYRIZA and the Left account, this is too bad for the truth and for the numbers and for the data. Fortunately, today everyone knows and sees and feels and that is why we will say below. Today's budget has a peculiarity, a peculiarity that is pandemic, and because pandemic happens once in a hundred years, it is indeed an intense peculiarity. Therefore, the budget for the year which has been closed cannot be compared with the budget that we have brought in. But now criticism and comparison by our fellow citizens are also being made of how we faced this extraordinary situation of the pandemic and judge us for it. So far we have been judged positively, and that is because we have made the right moves. First, we made a political decision, which was taken by the Prime Minister himself, credited her and which is why she has these positive percentages of acceptance from society. Above all, it's the health of each of us. Above all, it's public health. It therefore made difficult decisions with Lockdown, but at the same time it strengthened the health system just to withstand it. The data you know. It's more than doubled. Seven thousand recruits have already been made in health. I want to be objective. In these exceptional circumstances there may also be some mistakes and omissions. But we are also being given credit to this by society, which we listen to and recognize and correct them. So confronting pandemic in this way now comes to judge society, beyond the government and opposition, and what does it see? It sees an Opposition, which either disputes the data or supports and says and has the strategy that "we would give more". A characteristic example is that when the pandemic began Mr. Tsipras spoke of four thousand health recruitments, seven have been made and the other day said that "we would do fifteen if we were". Okay, now this tactic is known. But it doesn't lead anywhere. This tactic was experienced by the world in 2012-2015 that you were opposition and saw what happened to you after 2015 when you became government. The truth is that it also judges us for the economic consequences of the pandemic. And what do I mean? You come here today and you question what citizens have already felt in their pockets. A characteristic example is my special homeland, the Messiah. My compatriots, the Messinians and the Messinians, saw 55 million euros in seven and a half thousand taxpayers from the repayable advance. 11 of them have no way of returning them. It's a free subsidy. They saw that in about four and a half thousand ATMs they entered 8 million euros as special-purpose compensation for businesses. They saw 34m euros from TEIX, over 19m euros to support workers. Our farmers saw aid for both oil and potatoes and for early watermelon and for Kalamata olive. They also saw the government putting the retrospectives on their accounts last month. And that may have been a decision that has nothing to do with pandemic as a court decision, but it has nevertheless been a political decision to give now and to help them to strengthen our compatriots. They saw that 45,000 were generally paid to all of Greece funeral expenses, which you have had since 2015. So my compatriots saw that over 200 million euros were given in Messinia by this government. They saw something else. They saw you SYRIZA MPs, saw the representative from the SYRIZA MPs in Messinia not to have voted for a single euro of them and society knows it. Of the 200 million in Messinia, of the 30 billion total allocated to the pandemic, you have not voted for it. You voted against them. And not only did you vote against it, but then you come and say: 'We would give more'. The answer is simple: Do what all opposition across Europe did, regardless of what political space they came from. Vote on the measures and ask for more, to be at least believed. With regard to the second part of the budget, which is the estimate for the year coming, yes, the estimate is optimistic, because in the pandemic steps were taken to digitize the state which facilitates the citizen's transactions with the State and thus facilitates investors, through spatial planning, by reducing three percentage points in insurance contributions. All this shows a good investment climate. And that is what the forecasts of the markets show. So, yes, we think we will be going to an optimistic year, a good year, which will result in the rapid uplift of all of us, our compatriots, who have had a difficult time this year. We invite you to vote for him. We know you won't, because it's your ideality. But I would invite you, Madam President, to vote for one thing, because we as government know how to do the criticism as necessary. Because we have actually lived a very difficult year in terms of Turkish challenging and, it seems, while the European Union has made brave decisions on the treatment of pandemic economics, it has not taken such bold steps in this direction with Turkish challenging, the government as a duty, above all the country, will, after a decade, strengthen defence and armaments with EUR 2.5 billion. Show that you put the country above your ideologies and vote for at least this provision. Here we'll be on Tuesday night judging. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u353	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Famelos has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u354	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, the 2021 budget is being discussed at the heart of a multiple crisis, a health crisis, a crisis of economy, a crisis in international affairs of the country and democracy. For these extreme features of our country's multi-level crisis, Mr Mitsotakis is personally responsible. In the most difficult period of postpopulation, our country has a dangerous government, because, first of all, in the international day before yesterday, we experienced a diplomatic defeat of our country at the summit. The government has allowed the violation of the country's sovereign rights for four months, the question of national sovereignty, while returning with a third defeat from the summit. The Mitsotakis Government was unable to defend our country and is now vulnerable to national issues. Unfortunately, Mr Mitsotakis was not just a ruthless Prime Minister at the Council, but a tragicly failed one. In health the results of the second wave are tragic of pandemic. As a country we claim negative foundations, even in the death ratio. Can I tell you what is going on in Thessaloniki for five weeks now that there is no free IF, which is intact even outside the IF, that we have almost a hundred people in every hospital from the quarantine staff, why are the organic staff now less than half the seats? And the government is confined to the political exploitation of the pandemic, to the communication management of the Epidemiologists' Committee. No prevention, no recruitment of the ESS. Even the ITH announced by Mr.Mitsotakis on the "sterile" visit to Thessaloniki will take place in February, that is, four months later. They didn't hear the science he was talking about an explosion in Thessaloniki. To cover these criminal responsibilities Mr Georgiadis today told us that it was the character of the Thessalonians, proving that he was an irresponsible minister of an irresponsible government. The Prime Minister is also responsible, because he knew about the outbreak and decided not to take any action from October 15th. Hospital doctors are clear. We are told that "we have no support for staff, we have hypothesis, which leads to an increase in mortality, we have a pretext and incomplete plan and we now have autocracy in hospitals". What about the hand? Less than 600 million in the 2021 budget! So dangerous to health, too, the New Democracy. In the economy we are living the worst material results and a denial of Mr Stavoura and the staff for the results of the recession, while we have the second largest proven reduction in the income of all citizens and this is confirmed by the cry of agony of everyone, whatever your statistics say: traders, small and medium-sized enterprises, professionals, scientists. The middle class, which was misled by New Democracy, clearly tells us that it is your choice to sell out the public property and to play a "game" with few, to reproduce a state-owned parasitic elite. That is what we are living in the energy sector. Increases of 20%, 500 million since September last year at the expense of the citizens. High profits to competitors. Customers are leaving PPC. Distortion of competition and the very low price of coke does not come to the citizens' invoices. Four times the wholesale price of PPC sells in retail in April. And on the basis of EUROSTAT, we have an increase of seven positions in accuracy in Europe. The game of interests continues on the Stock Exchange. It is not institutionally shielded and we have monopolies toys. Mr. Hatzidakis says that. On the other hand, it bankrupt the RES account -270 million bankruptcy says the budget - while the energy market knows that it is not the COVID. It's Mr. Hatzidakis. So, what's he doing? New carpets in the RES, up to oil traffic, licensed suffocation in communities, throws away energy communities outside the ESDP, new carpeting in the middle of the trend, that is to say in businesses. It throws small producers away, all small projects of renewables. We're losing 700 million of the electrical connections, i.e. the NGOs we've been waiting for and we've moved forward and matured. So an investment winter in the RES. Everyone eventually comes out damaged, all consumers, Greek entrepreneurship, our country's competitiveness and households. The big game is in the privatizations. That's where the big game is. While Europe is recovering a public space to control the energy transition, to get to climate neutrality, all energy infrastructure in monopolies, the whole gas network, the entire distribution of electricity, we are told, with a green gold dust, that nothing from Far West is seen from the back door and that blue children, with supplies, are settled for which we are asking questions and are not answered, about what they are doing to energy operators. But the climate crisis is not shown in the budget. There is no expenditure on the resilience of infrastructure in this budget. There is no money to protect biodiversity, just to exploit, consume, that is, there too. Because they simply close NATURA all over Greece. Environmental crime has characterised it as all environmental organisations. Do you know what the structural problem is? It does not have a sustainable development plan, it only has superficial policies. For example, it speaks of savings in public buildings. Can we ask something? For a year and a half, why have you not gone ahead with the Elektara project, which also had funds from the European Investment Bank and which we started it? And last year you wrote about saving, I think 5% of consumption. They didn't do anything all over 2020, nor in 2021 will they. Possibly, some PPP will plan there too. Do you want me to tell you any other deficits? They are talking about 'principalisation' of the budget, 'green budgeting'. The 10% reduction of the land burned, do you know where they charged it? Not in the forest service that prevents, not where the reforestation is declared, not in the restoration, in the fire, that is after the fire. Also, the other one. The saving parameter is - it says - the upgrading, not energy poverty, not consumer protection. It's hypocritical when you say you're making a green policy not even knowing the institutional framework. On other issues, of course, they are sincere. Where they're talking about selling. They write in the budget for both PPC and Greek Petroleum and for natural gas for both the electricity grid and the Greek electricity grid. That, of course, is amazing. One week, Mr. Mitsotakis and Mr. Georgiadis wanted to see Mr. Mitsotakis. They didn't tell us which year a week. It's been eighteen months and we wait. In the next six months, Greek revenues are reintroduced. You have no idea what the features of the project are, such as when you first legislated in 2012 you did not know what the Greek problem was. No environmental studies or spatial planning. Again, the first dose is expected. But when we asked about the demolitions that Mr Georgiadis took with responsibility, we were told, Madam President, that Mr Georgiadis was not responsible. With two laws he has taken responsibility for demolitions and answered that he is not responsible. In the absence of a society, however, it is in the real problem of access to the good of energy, when the current is cut off by children who go to school in Komotini, Pagkrati, Agia Varvara, when we have complaints from many professionals throughout Greece, they have no policy on citizens' access to the basic good of energy. They did not vote for our amendment on vulnerable groups so that they could have access to basic goods. And they have no plan for western Macedonia, which is why they did not claim resources. They now have two regional bodies, with candidates supported by the New Democracy, against Mr Hatzidakis' plan. What's the plan? Collection of phone calls and ideas. Madam President, I close by saying that we have another serious issue in our country. We have a problem with democracy. We have a backwardness in democratic functions and in the rule of law. The IASC is abolished, forest maps, environmental control. They make construction service to take out building permits for the Minister to settle all cases. We're going back to the '60s. We have a problem accessing education for non-electric children. Manipulation and monopoly in the media. Thanks to canalarchs, police authoritarianism and limiting the right to assemble and persecution at the same time in hospitals to the trade unionists who speak. There is a far-right strategy in Greece, a new 'orbanism', which is why the government is still more dangerous. The vote on the budget, Madam President, is clear. But what we must all say together is that we need a new majority social alliance for a progressive democratic governance to limit the damage of this catastrophic government for Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u355	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr Liakos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u356	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, it is a impression that Mr Famellos would speak with such intensity and judge the New Democracy for anti-democratic policies when we know very well how SYRIZA ruled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u357	Please tell us. What's the matter with you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u358	The four licenses? Florence University? They don't tell you anything anymore. But you have now ruled, and you have to apologize for that too. Half the tension you've given you used to make self-criticism, now we'd talk....
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u359	People are fired from the channels. They're losing their job.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u360	Mr. Liaco, continue your speech and don't answer, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u361	Your problem is to have Greek repertoire. This is hypocrisy, talking about 40% repertoire when you have a hidden agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to state my sympathy to those of our fellow citizens who have lost their own people from a coronary. To wish good strength to those who fight hospitals, and to express my enormous gratitude to the medical, nursing and subsidiary staff of the country, who every day gives an unequal battle. Unfortunately, in my region, West Attica, in the last few days, despite lockdown, we have an increase in cases, which has been considered alarming. I know we're all tired mentally, physically and economically. We must, however, be patient, observe the measures and protect ourselves and all those we love. I am optimistic that soon with the arrival of the vaccine Greece and all humanity will be released definitively from the threat. I now come to our debate. I listen carefully all these days to Members' positions from all the groups, both here in plenary and before the committees and, indeed, what makes me an alpine impression are the positions of the Officers. It looks like they've been taken over by deceit for the second time in their political path. Only this time, frauds are very serious for two main reasons. Firstly, because now the risk is human lives in themselves and not our national currency. Secondly, because the reality, which they very much overlook, is global. The whole world economy is down. This is the biggest economic crisis the planet has had since World War II. If we want to make a match, we must return almost a century back to the spiral of Spanish flu. In other words, imagine the extent of the uncertainty and concern experienced by all those who are called upon to make decisions in all the countries of the world. And in Greece, SYRIZA believes that for the second wave of pandemic responsibility it has the opening of tourism, which, by the way, was four months ago. But let us come to truth and common sense. The budget to be voted was drawn up under unprecedented conditions experienced by the country and the rest of the world, while it is called upon to satisfy three very demanding conditions: first, to keep the economy alive by supporting the world of work, businesses and professionals, until we see a light from the vaccine. Secondly, to stand substantially next to our socially vulnerable and economically weakest fellow citizens. The harsh truth is that pandemic and its consequences are not and could not be the same for everyone. Thirdly, to lay the foundations so that, after the middle of 2021, there can be a stronger recovery. In short, the financial staff had a very difficult equation in front of him as he had to mitigate the 2020 losses and, at the same time, build solid bases for the country's economy in the post-COVID era. In my opinion, he did it. This budget is a realistic and consistent optimistic plan that will lead us to the new year. It is a project that not only suggests no tax increase, but maintains the reductions made last year along with the new ones. In particular, it maintains the second reduction in insurance contributions, which combined with the suspension of a solidarity contribution increases the net income of workers. It extends the reduction of VAT rates up to 30 April 2021 for specific goods and services. These goods include the species necessary to deal with a pandemic. It shall apply the measure of overestimates for digital and green investments. It grants borrowers of the "GEFHRA" programme who were affected by the COVID -19 pandemic. While let us not forget that the foundations for the beginning of a strong reform period, at the core of which is the best use of the Recovery Fund's resources, as well as of the NSRF funding through a national plan, are in place. At the same time, financial incentives are being given for the return of the Greeks who left the years of the crisis back to our homeland, transferring an know-how that is valuable to us. Perhaps this is the last opportunity for our country to transform itself into a modern European state, with a systematic increase in real income per capita, so that this starts gradually converging with the European average. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that even in conditions of unprecedented uncertainty the government remains consistent in its programme statements, while maintaining its vision of a modern and economically autonomous country in full. With this attitude we do not only take advantage of reforms, but also of the confidence that day after day is built inside and outside of the country, a virtue that our country needs more than anything else. It is trust which ensures social cohesion. It is confidence that puts our country in an unprecedented position both in Europe and in the world. It is trust that it will build up growth and bring investment. Investments and active enterprises are the ones that will bring jobs with good and satisfactory wages in a rewarding and competitive economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At this point - and I close, Madam President - you will allow me to stand in my region, in West Attica, a region with indiscriminate potential, which can certainly be a decisive factor in the function that I described just now. Emblematic investments have already been announced by colossal companies. The new Athens Penitentiary, which will be hosted at the border of the Municipality of Assyprus and given the government's commitments to compensatory measures, can create significant developmental and economic benefits. And while all this is evidently delayed because of the particular circumstances, I would like from this moment on to express my deep optimism that the serious work already being done to make use of the funds will quickly bear fruit so that the Western Attica can finally follow the country's development path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u362	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Fotillas from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, I have time-consuming my speech and it is within the context. But I'm going to need a minute of your tolerance, because I can't leave this recital of hypocritical and populism that we've lived in by Mr. Polakis unanswered tonight. Mr. Paulakis accused the government of analgesia, because while the coronary drug exists, we let the world die and the EOF does not approve the medicine. He failed, of course, to say that the same is true of the Italians, the French, the English, the Germans, the whole of Europe, the rest of the world, but a few Americans. Because this medicine has not received any approval from the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products itself, not even from the American Food and Medicine Agency itself, but only an extraordinary approval for limited use in a few in America. This, those who know, know that it does not enable any other country to export to it except there. All a country can do is manage to get into the program of clinical studies and thus acquire a portion of doses of this medicine until it is definitively approved. Because it's a good medicine, that's what we really hear. This is what Greece has achieved. It will be within the first two or three countries of Europe that will have access to this medicine immediately, 12 thousand doses, following the Ministry's interventions and the approval given by the IOF for this medicine. We will be in the first two or three countries of Europe. Mr. Polakis, I do amateurly about hypocritical, but you are the real theater of politics! The fact is that the budget we have been discussing these days in the House is at a very difficult time, not only for Greece, but globally. The health crisis has led to dramatic consequences and consequences for the global economy for the first time and makes it particularly difficult in all countries to provide a secure provision for 2021, especially the second wave of pandemic, which is affecting the United States with increased vigilance, but also for Europe, with hundreds of thousands of dead. No one celebrates the government, despite the fact that our country is in a much better position than almost all the countries of Europe and the Balkans, both in the cases and in the losses of the pandemic. But every human life is not just a number, but it hides a real tragedy. Of that alone, the criticism of counterpopulation should be more measured. After all, no country in Europe has taken a significantly different path to the management of the health crisis and to address its economic impact. Especially SYRIZA should be more modest. The other day, I would remind you by the way that it was announced, the Spanish Government was forced to announce that it was hiding cases and that the cases so far in Spain are 70% more than those announced by your colleagues Podemos and the socialists. Who will forget the clamps of Mr. Iglesias and Mr. Tsipras? Who will forget these chips: 'Tsipras - Podemos - Veniceremos'? Forty-seven thousand people have died in Spain, hiding it from us. Really, what did those countries that had more ICUs than we have, not the ones we have, the three hundred, the ones that you left us, the five hundred sixty-seven? But again what have those who have more than us achieved? They had more dead and more cases. Thus, the Greek Government has allocated more than 24 billion this year and another 7 billion will be made available for 2021 from the reserve that was prudently maintained by the Ministry of Finance. A large part of the money is therefore intended for health, as is the case with the economy in support of businesses and workers. The repayable advance where more than two billion went into the fourth round for hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises and we will continue for 2021. The same for special purpose compensation for workers with many billion euros as well. At the same time, the government doubled for December the minimum guaranteed income and unemployment benefit. It gives an even bigger heating allowance. Remember the bracelets that the world was burning up with, and you came and reduced the heating allowance of 75%, twice as much as 50%? That's the bracelets. There aren't any brats now. While the government increases for 2021 and the benefits to support vulnerable social groups by around 600 million. And while one would expect that despite the protracted lockdown, despite the high debt we will have to have this year, despite even the constant threat that there is from Turkey and force us on increased military expenditure, that the major institutional players of the economy internationally would have thrown us at the tartarium. But the opposite happens. They speak with the best words about the Greek economy. And it is not only the reduction in the interest rates on borrowing that allows the Greek Government better resources to be raised. They are the expectations that all international analysts have for our country and for financial institutions. And that's what you know very well he didn't come easy. It is a result of the consistent work done by the government in the area of structural reforms. You are aware, ladies and gentlemen, that in the global economy no secret under the sun. If you do not consistently and with a plan what you must really help the growth of your economy, everyone understands it internationally and refuses to lend you, interest rates are increasing to God and investment does not come. Because there is no royal road to development, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, and the tuuli unfortunately hit by investors, as you have seen with dramatic results during your governance period. And since we're talking about growth, you fell out on what you bet. You kept telling us that we were supposed to enter the pandemic with a recession. The evidence has shown that growth in the first quarter of 2020, to your great disappointment, and unemployment has been held back in total. Even the OECD updated the health data and is different from your catastrophe. Do you want to compare the figures from previous years to your health expenditure, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? The Greek Government made targeted tax reductions for all, such as the reduction of the solidarity levy, made changes in insurance, the simplification of investment procedures, the reduction of bureaucracy. And so, not only did it not incur a suspension of investments, but on the contrary it attracted new, large, giants of new technologies, see 'CISCO' and 'MICROSOFT'. More programs are being planned. That is why the great increase in the fixed capital for 2021 which the opposition colleagues do not want to believe. And you know how important it is to have foreign direct investment in our country, because only with them will there be a substantial reduction in unemployment. Finally, the role of the European Union in the Greek economy is very positive from the historic agreement reached at last at the summit on the Recovery Fund for the new Multiannual Budget. Part of this, a total of 72, will flow into the country from the first months of 2021. And it is estimated that more than 3.5 billion will work proliferationally in the economy. I close, so that I do not abuse time, saying this: ladies and gentlemen, we have all the preconditions, if we respect the precautionary measures together with positive developments from vaccination, in the first few months of 2021 to go well and reverse the negative course. A few more months have left so that we can all celebrate the new era that's coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u364	Thank you. Now Mrs Notopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u365	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of September we heard Mr Mitsotakis claim to raise a new national self-confidence. We heard your government officials admiring themselves because they had defeated the coronary, they had opened tourism safely and successfully, while anticipating unpredictable growth. The figurines of Santorini, of course, have succeeded very quickly the confession of your ruthless failure with the second lockdown. Only four months later, Thessaloniki sinks into the lamentation, mourning and fear. The ESS is falling apart, the health staff are declining, they're exhausted, the market is in despair. It is regrettable that our country is taking on board the mortal rate of Europe. We have a hundred dead a day. Looks like a few people are looking at you. Is three thousand dead indifferent to you? What are you waiting for? How many more are we gonna mourn and lose? No responsibility touches on Mr Mitsotakis' implacable government. What if, according to the expert's testimony, patients are being sorted in the hospitals in northern Greece, what if our fellow citizens die that could have been saved? The Thessalonians once again become impoverished in the hands of the known responsible - irresponsible of your Government. Once you feed us mirrors, to the indigenous Thessalonians, buses that fire in the middle of the street and sometimes, like Mr. Georgiadis, strive to cynic crescendos by blaming the Thessalonians for their scavengers without shame. I have not heard Mr Kalafatis smack a word, nor the other local Members of the New Democracy. Today, then, it is your fault that the Thessalonians who die because of their character. Where is IMAD in the crisis and in the management of the pandemic? Where's the Prime Minister's office? Unexistent, surprised, careless, reassured, failed in the Prime Minister's model, careless and unsuccessful. We are paying his failed choices today which prove to be dangerous to public health, to democracy, to our own lives. And, yeah, we talked about it. From the beginning we said: "Recruit recruitment, strengthen the public health system, prescribe mass tests, put unified strict protocols, check the private beds ICUs, join your design of primary health care, recruit doctors. You didn't do anything. And not only did you not hear us, but you also served in a fight of lies and hypocrisy. You lied about the costs the New Democracy Government has spent on pandemic amounting to 24 billion, and in fact you have just given 6.7 billion, of which 3.1 billion are loans. You lied about raising health expenditure by 786 million because of the pandemic, and the truth is that you are giving less than 400 million. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, I ask you again: do you really think, even today, that you have defeated the pandemic? We count a hundred dead a day. The percentages and numbers of permeated and cases are not dropping, and you are reducing the test. And not just. You are about to reduce the public health budget by 600 million in 2021. Your applause turned into a slap for the sanitary. You refused to pay their additional reports on the coronary. Of course, it's not all you refused. You refused to support disabled people. You refused to give an extra wage for the workers on the front line for the coronary. You refused to stop power cut etc. You refused to support anyone who is suffering in this crisis. You showed your true face: analgesia, hypocrisy and inability. Because you do not think anyone forgets because you ostracize your mistakes, your omissions throughout the course of pandemic management. You've opened the border, without terms and conditions. We have insisted on uniform, strict health protocols, seventy-two hours ago, strengthening the National Health System, strengthening business and investing in domestic tourism. You're the ones who've made our country a guinea pig. You opened the border on the basis of a theoretical algorithm without sufficient scientific documentation. You did back to the pressures of specific tourist agencies. Today he seems to owe the Greek hotel owners over 140 million. Do you understand what you've done? You don't understand. For then - like today - Mr Theocharis was fighting for us. He said: "If we had heard SYRIZA, the tourists would have been 100 thousand less." A similar statement was made by Mr. Petsa: "If we had heard SYRIZA, we would have thrown money to the ICUs." Nowadays, however, if you had to listen to SYRIZA, for intensive treatment units, as well as for restarting and maintaining tourism. Because, unfortunately, the 2.5% of GDP that we won from the improper opening of the tourism that it brought about and the early closure of the season are seeing that we are losing them. We lose 3% to 5% of GDP every month. Let's go to the Ministry of Tourism's budget. There is no provision, neither for injury nor for re-launching nor for a re-launching and sustainable development plan. The budget is clearly reduced. No expense in dealing with the pandemic. No vision today that the government needs to develop a serious plan, an integrated development strategy for tourism, today that needs to support sustainable tourism development, today, other words to be loved. Prove that once again you are just words and bad communication. You stick obsessedly, ideally, arrogantly to the same model that bankrupt the country. You abandoned the employees in the tourism sector. You flew a horizontal allowance whenever. You have forgotten thousands of workers in the country, seasonal, free professionals, scientists, long-term unemployed. What's to eat? Panspani, I guess. You are not aware of either the drama experienced by the Greek family or of the realities. The only measure you take for them is to increase taxes by 3.6 billion. As for small and medium-sized enterprises, you are leading them with mathematical accuracy in a padlock. And there, the only measure you took was to charge them with loan, when we called a subsidy, not a debt. Today, therefore, the chambers are screaming, but you are not listening to them, because you insist on supporting very specific interests. Failed to pandemic. A failure in the economy. Drive the country to the rocks. The second worst performance in the recession in the third quarter of the European Union has been recorded. And today, the country is a click away - rather, it's a lot of clicks - farther away from the growth that was brought to us by the excellents of your state of service. Small and medium-sized, of course, are many clicks closer to despair if you want to say things by their name. You put tombstones on households and small and medium-sized enterprises with the bankruptcy law that you voted instead of protecting the weak, instead of subsidizing the job, instead of giving liquidity to the market, instead of using the revised state aid framework. While inherited ‘cushion’, facilities, regulated debts, you get from the Recovery Fund an additional budget from the European Union. You insist on choosing policies that fuel recession, unemployment, throw the country on the rocks. As much as you're trying to hide behind the unprecedented situation, people don't eat spoon. You've had eight months. And not only that, but the reality itself disproves you. Provision for a recession of 10.5% and a debt evacuation of over 208%. You continue in the same model of development that serves very few, specific interests and you condemn the Greek people. The only hope is that 2021, not for the trade of hope you are trying to make, but for you to get away from the government and for a new social progressive majority to prevail with a new social agreement that will bring about a fair development in the country, a state that is truly strong and effective. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you can, with this budget, condemn the country - and that is why we are voting against it self-evidently - but we remind you that you cannot condemn the future. Because the future belongs to the new generation that gives despite the repression, despite the lists of Pesha a fair and visionary struggle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, my colleague. The Deputy Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Dimas, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u367	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the state budget for 2021 in the midst of the coronary pandemic, which has affected the entire world community, the national economy and the daily lives of all of us. But 2021 is a year of hope. A year of hope for a strong recovery of the national economy and gradual reinstatement of normality in our everyday lives. Why, though, is it a year of hope? It is a year of hope because the global scientific community, the researchers, have discovered safe and effective vaccines and we must all emphasise that the scientific community has been at the same level. Research in 2020 has been at the top of the global agenda. However, research plays a very important role in the real economy as well. According to data from the European Commission, for each euro invested in a peak research we return to the real economy of up to 11 euros. The European Union set a target for all the Member States in 2010 for research and development expenditure to be equivalent to 3% of GDP. Unfortunately, of the twenty-seven Member States of the European Union, the twenty-four Member States have not achieved this objective. Greece is in its 16th position with 1.27% of research and development expenditure in relation to GDP. But in the last year it has gained considerable ground. Let me say that while by 2017 the expenditure on research and development in Greece was mostly from the state budget, in recent years we have seen a significant change where the private sector has increasingly invested in research and development. Despite the fact that in Greece we have excellent academic research and our performance in relation to the European Union is even above average, unfortunately we have not managed this academic research to turn it into innovation and entrepreneurship. It is characteristic that in the European innovation table Greece is only in the 20th position compared with the twenty-seven Member States of the European Union. Therefore, the three priorities we have set in the Ministry of Development and Investment are to develop research into innovation and entrepreneurship, to increase research and development costs, and also to link the fragmented system of innovation. We designed in April 2020 by showing very fast reflexes and supported with national resources the flagship action for the coronary, where apart from the global scientific community, I must acknowledge that the Greek scientific community has also reached the occasion. We brought together six research centres and four universities for the epidemiological study of the coronary. We're conducting a very important number of diagnostic tests. We are also looking at the gene analysis of the coronary-diseased people. But we also had a very important success, the Greek research community managed to discover a Greek rapid coronary detection test. We have, however, also given the research centres more flexibility in order to be able to achieve much better results. We have also made significant changes in the management of specific research funds, in order to reduce the bureaucracy that exists in the research community, research centres and universities. However, we have also excluded from their single wages researchers who participate in research programmes financed from private resources or competitive European programmes. This is a very important reform, because it stimulates both research centres to claim more resources from the private sector, but at the same time it enables research centres to give more competitive wages and more competitive wages to researchers, so that they can attract some of our scientists, who were forced and left Greece in the years of the crisis. For the first time, the research area is also based on human resources. We move on to the ASEP competition for a hundred and fifty-two recruitments in the country's research centres, because we believe that investment in human resources, in the country's scientific potential, is absolutely necessary. We move forward to the building of the General Secretariat of Research and Technology, saving around EUR 450,000 a year from rent and rent. We also signed three important agreements with the European Investment Bank and the research centres, with Diocritos, the Hellenic Marine Research Centre and the Athens Observatory, and we proceed to discussions with the European Investment Bank to upgrade infrastructure for six other research centres. However, much of the research - as we have said before - comes from business. We have made a very important amendment, which is in force since 1 September 2020. And at this point I would like to thank all the financial staff of the country, Minister Stakoura, Deputy Minister of State, Kokulakakis and Deputy Minister Vessiropoulos. We have increased the excesses of research and development expenditure from 130% to 200%. Only by this change are we counting that, in the next three years, according to the impact study carried out by the Greek Government, research and development expenditure in the country will be increased by EUR 300 million. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Madam President, I'm going to need two more minutes. This is translated into new jobs, quality jobs for scientific staff. Especially when we had so many Greek scientists leaving the country, we now find reasons to be able to stay here at competitive wages. In addition to the excesses of expenditure, however, we are progressing very quickly through the NSRF, such as the "Research - I Create - Innovation", the Cooperative Innovation Structures and the Responsibility Centres that were missing from entrepreneurship, in an effort to link research more effectively to the real economy. However, we have also taken important initiatives for the innovation ecosystem. I would like to say that when I first met Deputy Minister for Development and Investment, we did not know how many newly created enterprises exist in the country, in which areas they operate, what turnover they do, how many people employ. We didn't have any clues at all. Especially when there is no acceptable definition of which companies are newly-born, not only in Greece but throughout the world, you realise that even if we wanted to legislate beneficial provisions for start-ups, we really did not know who we were addressing. We have looked at best practices in other countries, where we have seen that some countries have successfully dealt with this by creating a register of start-ups. That's what we did in our country. We've created a new-born business register. But we developed it and took it a few steps down, creating the "Elevate Greece", which is the gateway to the entire innovation ecosystem in the country. We established for the first time economic and tax incentives for investment angels, which did not exist until now as a thought. In Greece it had not even been discussed. We are, however, moving forward with the creation of the first state of innovation, a natural innovation area, a natural innovation site, in which newly-built enterprises, research and development departments, technobically, will be established, trying to create synergies for the creation of products, innovative products and services. I am pleased to announce to the House that the tendering of the first issue begins next week, a project that was not even considered before July 2019. Within a very short period of time, we have secured the extent and we have proceeded with all the procedures they need, so that we can auction a very important project. In conclusion, I would also like to refer to ThessINTEC, a very important project which we have had to do with it. We are trying over there to create a fourth generation technology park, attracting businesses to bring all the research and development centres of their businesses, creating an innovation ecosystem around them. In this we want the support of the Officerial Response and of all the institutions of the city of Thessaloniki, because it is a project for which we should all be fascinated. In conclusion, I would like to say that we have also made very important proposals which have been discussed with the European Commission. We are changing the institutional framework for the operation of technoblasters. They must be able to create technicians with very rapid procedures, operate them easily, even being able to shut them down. We are moving on to the creation of technology transfer offices to connect more effectively - as I have said - knowledge of entrepreneurship. We are moving towards strengthening basic and applied research. We are planning further reforms for additional investments in research and development. In conclusion, I would like to say that one of our main objectives is to finally link research with agricultural production more effectively, but also research with national defence and civil protection. This budget is a budget that supports research and innovation, helps the development of the country and I invite you all to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u368	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Melas from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 budget is a great challenge, not only for the Government of New Democracy, but for the country as a whole. It is a budget that comes into an unprecedented global health crisis with huge economic consequences on the global economy. The Greek economy could not be an exception to this. The recession in our country for 2020 is expected to be in 10.5%. However, in 2021 we will return to the path of growth, which is estimated at 4.8%, above the corresponding average of growth in the European Union, which will be at 4.1%. The Greek economy withstands and gains market confidence despite the crisis. We have already raised 12 billion in the pandemic with the lowest interest rates our country has ever borrowed. And we are first - as is shown by the figures - to absorb the funds from the European Regional Development Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis supports workers, businesses that are affected. And to this end, they have been spent by the government around EUR 24 billion. We also support our most vulnerable citizens, the long-term unemployed and we will continue to do so. How do we manage? By strengthening liquidity for enterprises through repayable advance. Four cycles will be provided EUR 5.5 billion, while only four hundred forty-eight thousand two-two businesses participated in the fourth cycle. The repayable advance as an effective tool will continue for 2021. We are doing this by suspending tax, insurance and credit obligations for those affected. We are doing so with the contract suspensions and the 'COMPANY - WORK' programme. The Ministry of Labour from March to November has given more than 1.8 billion. For the region of Piraeus only EUR 72.667.275 has been granted for the region of Attica 5,925.328. We are doing this by reducing the tax advance for companies affected by the pandemic. We have also frozen the checks for seventy-five days, a measure - for small and medium-sized enterprises and especially for trade. However, Mr Ministers, a framework for the repayment of cheques should be laid down when the seventy-five days deadline is over. But is that enough to deal with the situation? Of course not. That is why 7.5 billion is also provided in the 2021 budget for support for businesses and workers and a special reserve of 3 billion to deal with the consequences of the pandemic. An important point in the budget is an increase in defence spending by 2 billion. We will not risk it, as you wanted to do with Turkey, which directly challenges our sovereign rights and plays the role of the troublemaker in the Eastern Mediterranean. On the path of sanctions opened by the United States of America, the European Union and the developments at the summit yesterday showed that the countries of Europe are now moving in this direction. But what else do we do with the budget? We do not increase the tax burden for Greek households and businesses in 2021. We are reducing insurance contributions by 3% from 1 January 2021 for businesses and workers. A reduction that didn't vote for SYRIZA. We are suspending the special contribution of solidarity to the private sector. We thus prove in practice that our policy has been and remains to reduce taxation. Let me remind you what we did before the pandemic. We reduced from 22% to 9% the income tax to 10,000 euros. We reduced corporate taxation from 28% to 24%. We cut the ENPIA down by 22% and abolished it on the small and remote islands. It is a provision that SYRIZA has not voted on either. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the management of the pandemic, we must prepare ourselves for the next day. The question 'after the pandemic, what?' is largely responded by the Recovery Fund. The Recovery Fund is not just another European programme. It is an opportunity both for Europe and for our country. Greece will receive a total of 32 billion. The main axes for the use of this money are described in the national recovery and resilience plan. The project has been submitted to the European Union and is in consultation. The main priorities are to strengthen employment and social cohesion, support for entrepreneurship and attract private investment, green development, digital transformation and the development of new technologies. In the area of digital transformation, important steps have been taken by the Ministry of Digital Governance. With the gov.gr, as the Minister for Digital Policy said earlier, Mr. Kyriakos Pierracakis, we facilitated and simplified the daily lives of the citizens. It started in March with five hundred agencies, and today a total of seven hundred twenty-nine are provided. I will highlight intact prescribing, because intangible prescribing will be the key tool in planning vaccination against the coronary. Some time ago we also voted for the Digital Transformation Act and the Digital Transformation Bible follows. More than four hundred projects are reflected in the Digital Transformation Bible that will act as the digital transformation of Greek society and economy. Investment in new technologies can become the accelerator of the development of our national economy. It creates many well-paid jobs, while at the same time it strengthens and makes the Greek market competitive. We see it with the investments of large technological pools announced in the middle of a pandemic in our country. It is the one-billion investment by MICROSOT, which is the investment of VOLKSWAGEN in Astypalea, it is the Innovation Centre that will be set up in the building of COOPES in Piraeus and has already shown interest in companies active in the new technologies. It is also the "FASSITOS" fund, which has been established by this government, and the development of 5G technology infrastructure and services that are before the gates. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 budget supports Greek society, without exceptions and exclusions. At the same time, we are formulating the policies for returning to growth and normality after the end of the pandemic. A end that is close and will come with the safe, I stress, vaccination of all of us. There will also be mistakes, since there is no coronary management manual to show us the way. Nikos Kazantzakis had written in "Ascist": "Don't admit to asking: Are we going to win? Are we going to win? War.’ So it's time we fought. So don't rush, it's time to count again. I therefore call on you to vote on the 2021 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Haritou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Madam President. In the debate on the new budget, I hear you, gentlemen, constantly invoking the development of the pandemic to create a veil, that you are supposedly unresponsible. The truth is that in such major crises, the consequences of policies being pursued are even clearer. You guys were tested and failed. With your policies you left society unprotected in the pandemic. You've been impoverished by the workers. You've been acquitted of the middle class that so much you promised her. The diplomatic defeat at the summit with Mr Mitsotakis' personal responsibility shows your weakness and inability to defend the country's sovereign rights. Gentlemen of the majority, your policies have been doubled. You failed to manage the pandemic with the hundred deaths every day, with the three thousand deaths in just one month. What European country is such, unfortunately, a record of this? You have, gentlemen, failed to address the impact on the economy with what they are experiencing dramatically the affected layers of society and while the economy is sinking into recession, since we have the second worst performance among the European Union countries in the third quarter of 2020, you are satisfied. We are therefore invoking you, gentlemen, because without a plan you have left the country and the citizens unprepared in the friction of the second wave of the pandemic. It boils from cases of Thrace with irresponsible health structures, without free testing, without reliable information, with health personnel exhausted, but standing. But you did not learn your lesson, since the idea of just strengthening public health with permanent staff causes you allergy, while when it comes to private interests, you are euphoric. You are an ideal government that failed and wetted. Even in the newly built Komotini Hospital, which SYRIZA government promoted, utilizing the very large donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, you changed the public character and converted it into private law. So we insult you, gentlemen, because you failed to support the affected social strata that came up - down in their lives. The income, gentlemen, of low-paid workers according to ELSTAT, 2020 is 12% lower than in 2019, while your government is first, but from the end between governments for workers' protection policies. In another survey, in the European Union, small and medium-sized enterprises in our country have the greatest decline in turnover and access to financial instruments, and much of them in particular in the focus sector are doubtful to be able to reboot. All these people are amazed to hear you say that you have given the economy 24 billion money in 2020 and are reasonably wondering who you are mocking at. Because not all those affected understood, much of them excluded and helpless. Unhelpful by the government, without any financial support, there are hundreds of thousands of long-term unemployed, seasonal workers, vulnerable social groups, leading to extreme poverty. As helpless as small farmers, tobacco producers, cotton growers, farmers, Rhodope fishermen, who see their income shrinking, because their prices are low because of the general crisis. The budget, gentlemen, is socially unfair, fake and provocative. Along with the policies you are announcing, they create no prospect of recovery of the economy. Instead, you take advantage of the current crisis as an opportunity to pay the marble once again, the usual suspects, the world of work and the middle class. You are unrepentant, dogmatically insist on the same failed model that led the economy to bankruptcy, the country on rocks and the memoirs. The greatest, unfortunately, consequences of your policies will be borne by the world of the region. The promises of Prime Minister in Komotini last March that the "SHELMAN" industry will soon be reopened, that the Nymfaia border station will be upgraded, while the decision of the SYRIZA government to establish new departments at the Democritus University of Thrace was suspended by your own government. Thrace indeed needs a sustainable, coherent fair development plan, which will exploit its strong comparative advantages in the productive sectors and its cross-borderity. The mining activity of gold in this project is not in place, for which you are drawing the legislative framework. Also, stop, gentlemen, playing communal games with the needs of the region, in the name of the Intergroup, for the necessary infrastructure projects in agriculture, such as the one in the Opsitatos Dam. And I would like to point out, as the Intergroup Committee is discussing, that Thrace is not being offered any quarrel on critical issues that de facto take other dimensions. It needs bold policies in the direction of the development of the region, which the current government does not want and cannot take over. I am voting against the budget. Today the hope of a sustainable and fair development plan, which will be the man and his needs, comes even closer to the world's thoughts of work, creation and production and very quickly than you imagine, gentlemen, will be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u372	Thank you very much, Mr President. The list of speakers has been completed with Mr Haritos. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-12-S1-commons.u373	With the consent of the House at 22.51' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Sunday, December 13, 2020 at 9.30', on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, continuation of the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2021", according to the agenda distributed.
