ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 25 to 11-20, the minutes of the IGC of Wednesday, 25 November 2020 concerning the vote on the whole draft law were ratified by the Bureau: ‘Aid measures for workers and vulnerable social groups, social security arrangements and provisions for the strengthening of the unemployed’.]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: "Recommendation, operation and responsibilities of the Civil Aviation Authority, regulation of civil aviation matters and other provisions of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 19 November 2020 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, on articles and all. In particular, as regards the organisation of the debate, it is proposed that, in addition to the rapporteurs, special speakers and parliamentary representatives, as well as ministers who will be involved in a natural presence, we add two courses of speakers to this debate by teleconferencing via the Webex platform. Each cycle will include twelve speakers with the following ratio: Five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the Communist Party of Greece, one from the Greek Solution and one from the Mera25. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Stefanos Gikas, has the floor for 15 minutes. Please all, keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u4	You want to say on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u5	No, Mr. President. I want to make a statement. It's not related to the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Spirjis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u7	Yesterday, although the Prime Minister, the Chief of Officerial Representation, all the parties, all the speakers in Parliament expressed a certain perception of domestic violence, unfortunately the Ministry of Civil Protection, has arrested symbolic protests from women who have devoted their lives to the fight against domestic violence, to the torture of women, at a time when, due to the coronary and the lockdown - all over Europe and our country - very bad phenomena have been observed, even murders of women have occurred. We can only support this attitude of the government and the violation of the right of assembly and the behaviour of the government and police over those women who took all measures of the health crisis. We hope that, because we have seen fire-fighting vehicles coming to Parliament in response to meetings, demonstrations, because the strike is not a precursor - what happened last night - of today's anti-constitutional and anti-democratic behaviour again by the government and the Greek police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u8	Record your statement. The competent bodies will be seized. If there's any responsibilities, they'll be reckoned. From there on, the question of the constitutionality of the order has been resolved by the competent bodies, which are Parliament, the legislative body and the judiciary. From there on, if there are any infringements, the competent authorities will judge it. The rapporteur, Mr Gikas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, after Mr Gikas, I would like to see the point raised by Mr Spirtz for a minute. After the speaker, so as not to hamper the process. However, I would like to make a serious point.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u10	Sure. After all, you can take the floor whenever you ask. Mr. Gika, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a brief comment on what the colleague of the Vice-President of the Commission said. I think that no one is above the law, and when the country is going through such a difficult time as at this time with the pandemic, we must all, regardless of any important reason - here I will say that there was a reason - we must apply the laws. The law at this time is to protect our own lives and, of course, the health of society. I come to the draft law under discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a reform bill. However, let us say that the main guidelines existed, since the Civil Aviation Authority, which we are debating today, has already been in existence since 2016 by Law 4427, which was, of course, forced by SYRIZA to vote, implementing European legislation. European legislation therefore requires a clear separation of competences in the field of Civil Aviation between a Regulatory and Supervisory Authority, which is the AAC, the Civil Aviation Authority and the air navigation and air navigation and water management service provider, which is the PSC, the Civil Aviation Service. To say that the audited and audited could not coexist with the same agency. After all, the independence of the auditor is a prerequisite for its effectiveness. The current legislation is urgent, however, because the separation of competences and the establishment of the ADP, as we said it was voted on in 2016, opens up a parentheses - obviously with a heavy heart from the government at the time, because the reason was to secure the provision of 2.8 billion by the ESM, but was not implemented. It was, in fact, a problematic text, not being implemented, which created a Civil Aviation Authority that was daunty and complex with four hundred and eighty-seven employees, sixty sections and related responsibilities. Therefore, the non-implementation of the law from these three years of the SYRIZA government was that in the summer of 2019 when the new government and Mr Karamanlis as Minister of Transport and Communications took over, he found a situation which was very dangerous to bring about the downgrading of Greek airports. That is what EASA at least assured, namely the European Civil Aviation Safety Agency. Since then, it has started an effort, always in cooperation with the European Agency, working groups on working parties to speed up the establishment and operation of the Civil Aviation Authority. I repeat that the mission of the European Agency, EASA, is to ensure security in the field of civil aviation, and that is precisely the purpose of segregating the Civil Aviation Service from the Civil Aviation Authority. Therefore, it cannot be doubted that the draft legislation under discussion ensures and strengthens exactly that, the safety of flights, because this argument from the opposition has also been heard. Let us say here that all plans to deal with emergencies, such as accidents and others, will be fully implemented and the PSC will certainly be at airports and there will be close cooperation with the Civil Aviation Authority, the AAC in order to deal with any emergency or incident. So two words for the Civil Aviation Authority. With this draft law, the AMP is radically reconstituted. Its responsibilities are specified and enriched. This is an independent authority, with its own legal personality, operational independence and administrative and financial autonomy, according to the standards - I will say - and other European independent authorities. The APA is supported by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. Its purpose is to carry out the certification, supervision and enforcement tasks in the field of air transport, air navigation and airports of national and Union law and international conventions. It shall also carry out the tasks of the regulatory authority of the economic activity of the area. Now the ADA is getting a more simple and flexible form. The forecast organic positions are reduced by 65% and are seventy-two. This was the result of an evaluation, following cooperation with the European Agency, EASA, and of course the relevant Directorate-General of the Commission, DG MOVE. The argument we heard from the Opposition confusing the number of organic positions of the APA with the number of airports, helicopods, water and general population, is in the wrong direction and I think that its obsession is approaching populism. And I'm explaining. The needs of the authority depend exclusively on the air and transport work of our country. This is the basis for the evaluation, always in cooperation with the European Agency, of the number 'has been seventy-two'. In order to ensure that the principle is put into effect immediately, I will say 100% more - the staffing will result from the PSC with qualified and trained staff. So the RCF doesn't start from scratch. It takes an important dowry from the Civil Aviation Service and of course if there is a requirement to add staff, then it can also be taken from the wider public and if necessary, some very few places can also be taken from the private sector. One more thing. The reduced number of officials of the authority shall not amount to any reduced checks, in quality or in quantity, in any case. The electronic technology and digitisation that exists nowadays, which is constantly evolving and strengthening, actually enables many issues not to be present there, but can also be controlled by the centre. Of course, if necessary, the auditor will be there. The inspectors of the authority will carry out regular and extraordinary inspections of the supervised bodies. Where an infringement of national or Union law and international conventions is detected, they shall have the right to impose administrative penalties, starting from a simple recommendation until a fine is imposed, and even to suspend the operation of the undertaking. The administration of the authority is composed of the commander and the executive board and I would stress here that the qualifications of the commander are clearly provided for by the law and have no comparison with what happened in 2016, when your own law was passed after two whole years, with photographic provision, came the applicable decrees for commanders. As far as financial resources - and this is very important - financial aid of any form from the State budget is concerned only if the authority's revenues are not sufficient to cover its expenditure. Let us say, of course, that the basic revenues of the authority come from the route and terminal charges from EUROCONTROL. Two words about the Civil Aviation Service included in the bill. The PSC shall obtain the legal form of a legal person governed by public law from an independent public service body. Its purpose is to organise and develop air navigation and airport management and operation services. Its transformation into a legal person governed by public law is, ladies and gentlemen, a reform step, which guarantees more transparency. This is confirmed by the fact that, in its new legal form, the PSC acquires administrative and financial autonomy, which means, among other things, that it will draw up and implement its budget while making public balance sheets. Let me tell the SYRIZA colleagues and the Opposition in general, as well as a share of the trade unions of the Civil Aviation Service that I was really surprised at the fact that the transformation of the service into a legal person of public law and the correction of the earlier hybrid legal form provided for in previous Law No 4427/2016 is in the interest of the workers because they have the privileges, of course, of the civil servant, but also at the same time, the OSH gains the flexibility of the real economic and administrative self-sufficiency that a legal person of public law is doing. Moreover, the European Single European Sky Regulation, 317/2019, provides for this. I mean, it was a one-way thing to do. Now, scenarios that want to be the ultimate goal - we have heard it from a section of the opposition - the privatisation of the PSC and that the legal person governed by public law is the first step to become a legal person of private law and others are completely unfounded. Moreover, in the whole European area, a country - if I am not mistaken - has the same principle in the United Kingdom as in private. In all other countries the authorities are state-owned, State-Owned. Moving on, I will say that Greece complies with Community requirements and the Civil Aviation Agency - very important - is appointed to administer and allocate fees collected through EUROCONTROL. This draft law achieves full harmonisation of our country with the obligations arising from European legislation and international conventions, with a view to transparency, efficiency, flexibility and efficiency. In conclusion, I would like to point out this: it was supported by the opposition that Parliament's legislative work in mid-Lockdown should be strictly limited to matters relating to pandemic and that this important bill should not be discussed under these circumstances. Let me remind you - we will not get tired of saying this here - that Mr. 4427/2016 was done with the emergency procedure, yes, for the dose. I understand that. In our case there was a great debate, and I really would like to thank the Minister, as well as the chairman of the committee who gave us the opportunity for this broad debate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be out in a minute, Mr. President. Secondly, we do not have the right, ladies and gentlemen, to stay with our hands crossed until the pandemic ends. The government must continue its reform work. Sometime the pandemic's gonna end, and then what are we gonna do? We are therefore putting the foundations, voting for those laws which will help to restore the economy and develop the country immediately after the end of the pandemic. For all these reasons, therefore, this bill should really be granted a broad parliamentary consensus. And so I really call on colleagues - in particular SYRIZA, who had brought a similar law four years ago - to vote in favour of it because - I really believe it - this reform promotes, serves the national interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u12	Thank you too, Mr. Gika. Before giving the floor to the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Nikos Pappa, the former President of Parliament has asked for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u13	Yeah, for two or three, so much, no more. Mr President, perhaps I would not take the floor - because Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Spirtz, put it this evening about yesterday's very dangerous and undemocratic incident in the arrest of fourteen women - if I hadn't listened to you as a law-approved and experienced colleague, Mr Ghika - to give your full support to the legal basis in relation to these arrests. And when this is done within the Greek Parliament, you realise that it creates a reciprocity, a kind of case law, that is, which is totally unacceptable to the phase that we are going through. Because Mr Gikas quite rightly said that the government wants to continue its reform work. I am not critical of this because, of course, the pandemic was not in the Prime Minister's programme statements, nor did the government know about the entire year we spent in these circumstances. And so this work must obviously be questioned, namely whether it is possible in the pandemic to pass bills which create reasonable questions in relation to their social or public character. I am not going to go into this at all. But, at the same time, it is possible that workers, young people, women with all the measures appropriate for the committee to exercise the constitutional right of assembly, which cannot be lifted if these measures are retained, so that they can express their point of view. What kind of view is that? So we're gonna spend a whole year, huh? Today is also a strike in both the media and various sectors. Will the Greek Parliament accept that the assembly is forbidden for a whole year? Yesterday, Mr President: not only fourteen women from women's organisations, surnamed and surnamed organisations, who had declared that they would make this protest on the steps ahead of the Parliament with their distances between them - see also the photographs that exist - but that the provocations have turned into arrests. And I hear just now from you and Mr. Gika that "what can we do? In time of pandemic there is legal coverage in these arrests." There is no reason, because the ad hoc interpretation which has been given - with the doubts that have been raised - about the course of the Polytechnic, about the uprising of November, obviously a full interpretation of all the parties concerned that day. And I repeat that there are obviously disagreements that will be decided and when there is a debate here in this House on the unacceptable energy of calling the three parties' leaders before justice. I'm leaving that. Is it possible, then, to lodge inwards and arrests when health measures are observed at protest or demanding meetings? Yesterday, it was not even a protest, it was a statement of demands, at the same time that we in the House, Mr.Mitsotakis, Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Varoufakis, formerly Mr. Loverdes, all developed their positions on the major issue of feminine murders and the Convention of Constantinople and the day against violence against women, which is a global, international phenomenon, which, within the pandemic, has taken explosive proportions, as it is reasonable to say, is happening in prison situations. It is unacceptable, highly anti-democratic, that it is not covered by any legal interpretation, by any provision, and I repeat that it cannot be a precedent. Today I repeat that there may be some meetings, some events. It cannot be a precedent for the people in the next few months to remain silent, youth, women, parties to be silent, to move forward without any opposition or social criticism, so-called 'democratic work of the government'. I express my deep disappointment, because there was this interpretation on your part - I respect both of you and I said it - that it covered, without the government taking a position, these unacceptable anti-democratic actions of the arrests of fourteen women yesterday in front of the Greek Parliament. Not to start, not to let the country go this way for the next critical months. All our first concerns health, but it must also be social cohesion and democracy and freedoms within our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, I said that no one can see that there are issues which are difficult to resolve. But when we have to weigh goods, such as health, the right to assembly, etc., there is a conflict of these goods and there is a weighting. That's how the state decided.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u16	Wait a minute, Mr. Bukowo. I saw you. I'll give you the floor then. In any case, legislation and parliament represent the people and social trends. Perhaps we may be able to raise this issue in the Conference of Presidents, if there is a wide-ranging representation of trade unions in the institutions, when they come to the committee and see it there too. In any case, all positions are respected. Here, Mr. Bukkoro, you have the floor and then Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened carefully to what the former President of Parliament said and with all due respect to his face, I would like to say that the views he expressed do not agree with us for a number of reasons. You know that this provision is purely sanitary and sanitary. There was, from the outset, an effort of political forces to give a strong political signal, to politicize it and ultimately to cut it apart. And we saw the following political paradox: While in the recent past there was no protest against banning our festivities and traditional customs, such as Easter days, by banning events on 25 March and banning events on 28 October, we saw a tsunami of protests and reactions on the occasion of the anniversary of the Polytechnic uprising and an effort to exploit. And the President here today tells us that these women had all the health distances and took all the measures. Do you know what the problem is, Mr President, in our view? The problem is where the measure is going to go, how many demonstrations will be made and who has the greatest and greater right of another collective body to demonstrate and perpetuate its views - and very well it does - in the context of our democratic culture. Who will take the measure of who are protesting and who are not demonstrating? Hundreds are women's associations and associations, hundreds are unions in this country. And of course when a collective and a union have the right to protest, who takes the right away from all other unions? And in the end, if this is done selectively and occasionally, are not some more equal than others in relation to a law which has been formulated by the Council of State, which is in fact the competent body? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Some people, in other words, have more rights to protest even in the context of the pandemic? What if we let these people protest freely, all the rest of the others who are representatives of reason and collective bodies, but also the ordinary citizens, will not think that a two-speed law is being implemented? And that's democratic? I would say that it is an attempt to create the political benefits of a law, a provision of purely healthal direction, which in no way intends to affect the democratic rights of the Greek people, which we fully respect in practice. The only objective of this provision, Mr President, is to protect public health. We see how affected the National Health System is, we see that people are being lost every day and we must all stand against these events with greater temper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u18	I suggested that perhaps we could regulate this with a representativeness of the relevant unions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u19	There's no law. My colleague was referring to law. There's no such law!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u20	In an arrangement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u21	Let's see that. All positions are respected, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Loverdos has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, there is one ambiguity in the Chamber as to whether and whether that provision concerned prohibitions and restrictions for four days. That's my impression, I'm not saying it. That provision which was decided as a constitutional measure by Mrs Sharpe is the one which provided for four days' limitations. It did not provide for general restrictions for all the time since it was issued and until the end of the pandemic. That's my impression. If I'm wrong, please clarify it. If that is the case, if I'm right, then the Ministry of Public Order is checked that it has not clarified exactly what has to happen. Today we have strikes, today there are gatherings. I saw a gathering of PAME now outside the Ministry of Labour and on TV one more of the WTO in 'Sismanoglio'. In fact, I saw it a little better because they interviewed the contents of their movement and had made sure that they complied with the safety measures, that is, the distance between them. So there is one issue, and the government must regulate it, so that each trade union and every citizen knows exactly what it is going to do and what it can do. That's the one. Secondly, the issues of constitutionality, in addition to the decisions made by Mrs Sharpe, President of the Council of State, which have reason - when we take the text, we will see them - have discussed them extensively, Mr President, since March. And because it was not only the politicians questioned in Greece, but also the scientists who had been questioned, there had been two major seminars of Constitutional Law from the eKyklos.gr of Mr. Venizelos and from the respective network of Mr. Manitakis, where it had been clarified in all tones what is the harmonisation of rights deriving from Article 11 of the Constitution with the problems created by pandemic and the need to protect public health, i.e. a weighting. It was clean and it's global. That is the framework, then. Everything goes back without destroying the rule of law, because we must protect ourselves, protect public health and every man from this curse he has found us. But in this context, life has not been universally stopped, Mr President. And this second lockdown isn't like the first one. It is more relaxed with the fact that citizens now know what to protect themselves. So we need to see things in the light of this new shaped situation and the government is asked to give clarification. As it goes, Mr President, we have a rule with willful exceptions, which will create many issues, such as yesterday. Perhaps they will be created today. I hope it doesn't happen. It can't go on. We will always have problems both in the National Representation and in the public debate. It must be made clear what is allowed and what is not allowed by the fact that life has shown that there are no indestructible and that we are all vulnerable. There is no social category excluded, because it is loyal to a religion, because it is spectacular or because they are revolutionaries. Everyone's offended, everyone's human. It is therefore clear that there is a gap that will create daily such frictions and problems, which we hope will be kept at this level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u23	Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, may I make a clarification for thirty seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u25	Wait a minute, Mr. Bukowo. We're not gonna end this way. We have a bill in front of us. There was an intervention - and it was right - because we are talking about topical and urgent subjects, but we have to end this circle at some point.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u26	For thirty seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u27	Let Mr Arsenis finish and then, Mr. Comrade. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to thank Mr Voutsi for his intervention. Because this country has been in the plaster before to serve maximum purposes, we have to be very careful and not to scratch such injuries, because these injuries are indeed in our country. We now have a European Parliament resolution, which all the parties supported, and the Socialists and the People's Party, obviously, also the Left, and calls on governments not to ban meetings in order to pass their policies and avoid social reactions against their policies with the coronary alibi. So we right now need to protect, protect democracy. We should not alibi the suspension of constitutional articles, for things that are done without the purpose of protecting against the coronary. Society cannot stop breathing and operating. We're taking precautions. This does not mean either suspending democratic and political freedoms. I'm afraid the government moves that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Since last night, when the provocations of these women who made this event in Syntagma Square as a JRC were known, we have asked for their immediate release without conditions and conditions and stressed that it is hypocritical on the day that the government itself speaks against the violence of women against the women concerned, who were prosecuted and finally arrested. So it's unacceptable. One is that. Secondly, it is equally hypocritical and dangerous that the government does not suspend the escalation of anti-grassroots policy towards workers and other peoples and at the same time demand the suspension of the games. This can't be done. This thing can't be done. And we say this because the struggles that are developing all this time today - for example - are today an all-Greek day strike of dozens of federations, workers' centres and hundreds of labor unions with events, gatherings, taking all the health protection measures put forward by health professionals and scientists and outside hospitals and in a number of mass spaces - are being developed precisely because they want to engender their right to life, the measures of direct shielding of the public health system and, of course, the escalation of the anti-laboratory policy of the government. And from this point of view, these struggles are not suspended, they are not put into the plaster and they are not going into the plaster. We call it clear. The government is opening badly indestructible and will find them in front of it. In this respect, therefore, the government's responsibilities in the management of the pandemic are heavy. It cannot impose these responsibilities on the organised mass class movement, which takes all protection measures. It needs to see its own responsibilities for the crowding in public transport, its own responsibilities for the workplaces that have emerged in a legend of spreading the diffusion, for large areas, private or public, of safeguarding our state-of-the-art fellow citizens. These are the important responsibilities that exist, along with the intact public health system that he has left. As a JRC, we clearly emphasise our support for the struggles of these workers who are adapting to the conditions of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, I would like the floor for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u32	Here, you have the floor. You only said clarification about something that was misunderstood.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u33	Yes, of course. Only clarification, Mr President. The concept of our location was just that, who's putting the measure...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u34	That's understandable.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u35	...who have more rights now. If the Ministerial Decision on the Polytechnic Day has expired, or if the previous MIP that forbids meetings of more than nine people, and all of this, I would certainly not dare to do constitutional interpretation courses presently by Mr Loverdou. We're talking about the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u36	We're not going to do an analysis. There is a legislative act that was ratified in 2020 and the general provision applies. If there are details, however, of what everyone has said, we need to see legislation again from the outset. It's not our responsibility. The legislative act was ratified in 2020. The legislative act does not apply, but the law which ratified it and gives it the power. Let's not solve all this right now. We don't have a clipboard. Mr Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, thank you very much. I wouldn't take the floor. I listen very carefully to what you said, Mr President, and I think the issue here is how we can guarantee public health and protect individual rights. And, you know, this issue is not just about Greece. Other countries are involved, both in America and in Europe. So we have a very difficult balance and, in my opinion, we have to understand that we are in a pandemic situation. This does not seem to me to be the issue of the demonstration you referred to. You quite rightly said that yesterday in Parliament the Heads of the political parties raised this issue. The Prime Minister himself held a teleconference on the subject of violence yesterday. I therefore think it is completely unfair and politically dangerous to refer to a particular fact in order to accuse the Government that it is not sensitive to this issue. You know, unfortunately, that I am sorry to see, because I do not think that in this country after '74 we have matters of democracy in respect of the right of assembly and of protesting. Thank God, especially in Greece, we have a tradition and culture and with the struggles of the Left, I do not question this, to have this right guaranteed. Today, however, we see a policy which is very dangerous, a policy that is politically coloured by the virus. So the fact, as our parliamentary representative, Mr Bukokouros, has said, is quite right, is where the measure will be. The country that invented the measure cannot find the measure. So why allow one demonstration and ban the other? And also because we're talking about how the virus spreads, I can remind you that we have the example of the Dayton in a big city in Spain, in Madrid, if I remember. One of the reasons why Spain in the first pandemic had so much excitement phenomena was because it did not control this demonstration. So I think we should be careful and I think that the political conclusions we draw here for so-called authoritarianism have nothing to do with reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u39	No, Mr. Loverdo. We'll never finish. I do not, however, commit that we shall raise this issue in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u40	I have a right. I want the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u41	We will not finish the legislation if this cycle is made. One clarification he wants to give only the former President of this House, and we're done with it. Please very much. Mr President, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u42	The accusation to the government is not that it is not sensitive to this issue that you said yesterday and by all the political leaders and by the Prime Minister, etc. The indictment, the charge that there is no sensitivity to democratic rights and the article on the Constitution's synergy is clear. And I want to tell you directly because you have taken a stand again, Mr President-in-Office, Mr Athanasios, that, if the PPP were enough, there would have been no general prohibition by the Chief of Police, there would have been no serious objections to unconstitutionality and the President of the Council of State would not have taken a decision on this three-day matter. It is obvious that the GPA for a meeting of nine persons in March does not exceed one millimeter of the standing constitutional principle. That is why all the previous debate and confrontation took place in relation to the course of the Polytechnic uprising. That's what this is about. In fact, as has been said before, when the provocations are being arrested, it is clear that we are going to a generalised ban on protests and mobilisations for months all, while the government is moving on with its work. You said about other countries, Mr Karamanlis. Well, in Poland, which is being blamed by the European Parliament and the rule of law, the large, mass events of women who have become, have seen the unacceptable legal measures for banning abortion, for which there has been a conflict with the European Union of the state entity, the Polish Government. And there were too many other demonstrations internationally on burning issues within the pandemic. In the United States of America, which have two hundred and fifty thousand dead from the pandemic, there have been massive protests and demonstrations in all cities, because it is obvious that life, democracy, claim, and does not stop within the pandemic, despite the fact that all health measures must be taken, nor can democracy be restricted for months throughout the debate that we have been doing here between us. It's a burning matter. It's a central issue. It is not solved by the Conference of Presidents. It is a crucial political issue and the government must take its responsibilities and take a clear position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u45	It can't be done, Mr. Loverdo. Others will ask for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u46	I want to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u47	Mr Loverdos, I will not say that we are off the agenda, because because of yesterday's events, there is a practice that allows this debate. Not to be perpetuated, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u48	Everyone's clearing up their way...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u49	We're not going to solve the problem now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u50	They're gonna help what I'm going to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u51	Everyone has his legal opinions, he has his political opinions....
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u52	That's not all I'm gonna say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u53	You've all done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u55	Here, now Mr. Bukokouros wants the floor again. Then Mr Arsenis will also want the floor, perhaps Mr Karathanasopoulos. We're not gonna end this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u56	I would like the floor because you also gave it to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative. I will only make one clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u57	Here, Mr. Loverdo, make the clarification you want. The problem is not solved here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u58	It's solved. From the first turn of dialogue, we are now more than adequate in the context. It is clear that the law that has ratified the legislative act applies, as you have explained. You said that. I'm not cuffy right now, I don't have the law in front of me, so I can invoke him, and I want to be serious. If it's what you say and you're right, then what's happening right now in Athens, today, is out of law. So the government is controlled for ambiguity. I'm not standing in yesterday's episode. I have been standing on the question since today and beyond. What's the matter, Mr. President? What are you talking about, the law? The law is limited to nine people. Are there today protests and trade unions of nine people and fewer? Oh, no. I've got a picture of two, and that's not the way it is. So the government is controlled for complete ambiguity. I do not differentiate alpha or beta in relation to our sensitivities to violence against women. We were all placed yesterday and I think we were clear, each in its own way. But here, Mr President, there is a matter that will be uncertain every day if you are right to clarify what is legally applicable.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u59	At the Conference of Presidents we will discuss this and see what interventions may be made to the Government and, if necessary, any further clarification or legislation. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Nikolaos Pappas, will now take the floor for 15 minutes. Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Starting, I would like to express our grief, because we have just been informed that the actor Eva Kotamanidou, was also a member of the coalition, a candidate with the Democratic Left, if I'm not mistaken, in 2012. It became known from its participation in many films by Theodore Angelopoulos. So we want to express our grief. I now come to the agenda. Look out, you've taken a far too slippery way. Of course, there have been some statements, but I would tell you to collect your Members, who publicly question the use of the term 'female murder'. The UN calls for immediate national initiatives to combat, as it says, the 'female pandemic' and the outbreak of domestic violence. Look out, it's not secondary. And when fourteen women are arrested, who, with absolute protection measures, go and show, in the simplest and most unrestricted way, this major issue, your Government has what it has to say? That he needs to get on the balance, what exactly? So let's tell them to get into a class C grade that's allowed twenty-seven people or on a bus where they're allowed I don't know how much and it doesn't get there. So there is a measure and understand which slippery road you are walking, because you have stretched the ground well and feel each extreme right that it may sue Tsipras, Koutsouba and Varoufakis at the same time. And I didn't see there coming out of your party any announcements and beg some people back to seriousness. Well, be careful! I'm not talking about Mr. Mitsotakis' unexecution, who didn't dare put Georges in his place, who said he was proud of the hundred dead a day. And he came and covered the misery of Mr. Gerapetritis, who made a miserable escape to avoid any responsibility to say that in ICUs there is a high rate of mortality and it is good to avoid them. And he didn't have the political courage neither did he, nor his chief to come to the House and say "wrong". Stress court there, too. To justify unjustified justification. ID's saving lives and we don't have enough! And your responsibility is burdening you! It's over and over! I'm coming to the bill. We have asked from the beginning of the debate for the study, the minutes of the committee which decided and decided that it is fine to reduce the staff of the Civil Aviation Authority by 65%. You invoke her...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u61	Don't rush!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u62	No, don't rush! Four meetings of the committee have been held. What can't I be in a hurry? We came to plenary under a pandemic regime and reduced procedures and you tell me not to rush? When are we gonna see her? We're supposed to be judging. Your word and our word, that is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u63	I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u64	'I'll see you later.' When will I talk to you later?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u65	I'll see you five days.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u66	No, we're not. You claim something. We invite you to testify and do not do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u67	You with emergency procedures brought them in to get the dose.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u68	Minister, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u69	Let's go to that now. Bring them in for a dose. Bring the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u70	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u71	... because the Rules - to start with - referred to by this legislation, existed since 2009. Changed twice along the way. So what did you do by 2015? What did you do except for memorials and recession? Were you hanging on a kite? And you're asking us for the change we've brought in in a few months' time, had the presidential decrees passed, sent you a detailed letter and told you that the service is ready to function - a ministerial decision was missing, which you did not issue for a year and a half - and you ask us to change? I am not talking about the issue of the legal person governed by public law, because you think you have no reason to explain or substantiate this choice. In the draft's rapporteur's report there is absolutely nothing and the explanations we hear here are other words to be loved. I'm afraid so. So you're reducing the personnel of the Civil Aviation Authority. You are redeeming the work of airports. There are specific responsibilities. In fact, I do not understand how you can claim to be compatible with their obligations by respecting these responsibilities the civil aviation officials from a computer in Athens. So, he's gonna be stalled by an airplane in Karpathos, for example, or at another airport in the island, far away, he's gonna get a micro-haul, a passenger, take him out because he's overbooking, and he's gonna just wait to do what? Record his complaint and wait three months, which can be six. And that will protect passengers' rights. Hey, he won't protect them! Nor will the image of the country protect, because when the pandemic nightmare leaves, we will all hope to return the tourist waves to our country. Imagine what we have to do if it comes out that our country has no effective mechanisms for protecting passengers' rights and what defamation we may suffer internationally if this happens. I'm not talking about accidents now. I am talking about incidents which are too often and which are often resolved in an oral manner. Not recorded. You came here and told us about the recording of the incidents at the airport "Macedonia" in Thessaloniki. Now that the auditors are leaving, I'm going to tell you about incidents and how many people there can think they can do whatever goes down. Let's go down. We'll have a chance to talk about it again. Our Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Spirtzis, who was Minister for Transport and Infrastructure, will also speak in detail. I want to focus on the rest of my position on the major issue of the state aid to the AEGEAN company. Let's see what you're going to do there. Greece has fourteen airlines. This company has 95% of internal traffic and approximately 40% -50% of external flights. We remember many defenders of privatisation saying that the problem is that we have a state monopoly. You are now aware that we have a private monopoly. The extreme neoliberals of your proliferation said that we would overcome the problem that "OLYMPIAKI" cost the Greek taxpayer. It did, of course, cost it the way you had made it work. Now it'll cost us the private monopoly and cost us and no consideration, from what we're learning. And don't tell me about the warrants. I slowly come to one - one. Does LUFTHANSA receive assistance from the German State? He's on it. Yes, sir. We agree. He's giving shares to the German state? He's giving. 20% of the share capital of LUFTHANSA, therefore, has been passed on to the German State. And not just that. The German State took convertible bonds and other rights. Austrian airline. Likewise. ‘BRUSSEELS AIRLINES’, as well as the Finnish airline. Now let's go to 'Aegean'. What has AEGEAN got? One hundred and fifty million from the COVID Guarantee Programme so far. Yes, sir. That's not bad. It has also taken the lion's share of the 115 million total received by the airline companies and it has to do with the programme 'COMPANY WORK' and other tax exemptions that were generally foreseen. Yes, sir. To explain, the 150 million received from the COVID programme lacks small and medium-sized enterprises. You have not drawn up a special programme of state guarantees for such a critical economic and social function, such as air transport, especially in a country which has island status. The government is now coming to announce that it will give more 120 million. Yes, sir. We're asking what's going to get the public back. You're telling us that private investors will too. Wait a minute. Didn't they get a 150 million loan a while ago? They took it. And now they come and say that they will put 60 million to become a reinforcement hut. What does the public get for the EUR 120 million? What are you saying it'll take? You're telling us it'll get warrants, i.e. rights to buy shares. That's a very nice deal. That is, we give them money in any way possible and we take as Greek public our right to give them back money! No position on the Supervisory Board, no position on the Governing Council. The Greek taxpayer's money, that is, will be managed during their own priorities, which are presumption of non-conformity with the public interest. They admit it by asking for state aid. Watch out here so we don't get any misunderstandings. I will catch up with you and I urge you not to do this because you will get a very strong answer. We are here to defend flight work and jobs, not property. Kastelorizo, Karpathos, Kasso, Rhodes must have a flight. We will be quite clear here. However, it does not have the obligation of the Greek taxpayer to defend property. The state has an obligation to guarantee that connectivity will remain despite the pandemic. There are parts of our country where everyone else will be subsidising the flight that has to go there because the inhabitants of these islands are entitled to be connected. I don't know what the problem is. Why don't you ask for shares from ‘AEGEAN’? What are the Germans? Communists? So ask for share capital. I'll tell you something, Mr. Karamanlis. The State aid rules ensure the interests of the State in this way. They say that if a company is strengthened, if it does not return the money in time, it will return them increased. What are you doing here? Do you understand what you're doing? You give the money to "AEGEAN" and keep the entire public risk. Because the only thing he has is rights to buy shares. When will the share price be increased so that the public can get its money back, and indeed by the surcharge laid down by the State aid rules? I don't understand why you don't ask that there should be any such predictions to get the public share. We are now going to something that I think is absolutely wrong from your side and from the company side. We want clear answers here because it seems that when the agreement was closed there was no possibility of damage but of injury, which the same company had confirmed. On 28 September Mr Vassilis asked whether it would be necessary for the fourth quarter to cover derivative losses. What does that mean? It means that they had made contracts for oil, obviously, which were inconsistent because of the fall in the price of oil. How much damage did we have in the first half of this procedure? Seventy million. What does Mr Vassilis answer? That if the flight project is close to 20%, we'll have damage. And the company's own estimate when it announces the financial results is that the flight project will move there. I've got the announcements here. And the assessment of IATA is the same. So what have we got here? The public enters into an agreement, strengthens a company which admits that it has other losses to cover and of course also to cover the price of the new aircraft it has taken. We need to see when they will be received, how they will be paid. So there goes the Greek State and it strengthens a company which in all tonnes has to say "I'm going for big turtles". And what are the safeguards? That the stock will rise. When? In 2021, where both the company and the IATA say that we will have 20% of the 2019 flight project, and it even comes as a limit? In conclusion, - beware - we have told you and the committees that the times of the major crisis are not times for neoliberal experimentation. The agreement with 'Aegean' we promise you will find it in front of you. For direct aid without receiving public participation and without ensuring that it is multi-checked and not just politically controlled, Mr Karamanlis. And you know that my words count them personally and we at SYRIZA count them. Take very good care. And we will not only move at the level of the Greek Parliament. The Greek taxpayer's money must show that you respect it. 40% of AEGEAN's shares are 120 million right now and you get zero. Don't tell us we didn't warn you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u73	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u74	I intended to speak at the end, to hear as many Members as possible, but I think that for both policy balance and dialogue reasons I would like to respond to two issues that Mr Pappas has said. First of all, Mr Pappas did not mention the bill at all, almost at all. I hope Mr. Spirji will. I'll listen to him very carefully. But you did something, Mr Pappa, which in my view characterises you as dangerous populists. And I'm explaining. You spoke about flight safety. I told the committee in particular that the safety of flights had a question for the twenty-three airports. I have here, and now I submit to the House, all the EASA documents that are talking about defiance of the twenty-three airports. Take them, have them, study them well, to see that the lie has short feet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u75	You want to explain?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u76	I didn't interrupt anyone. Look at them. I have already stressed that. Before I go to "AEGEAN" to tell you about flight safety. What you are doing in my personal appreciation is unacceptable. And I'm going to tell you something else that shows your good work. Mr Papa, do you know that there is a Committee on Accidents and Flights Investigation? SYRIZA, who is on flight safety after we went to submit to security issues by the European Union Security Agency - so terrible was their negotiating cowardice! - Listen to what they have done, ladies and gentlemen: how many cases have not been investigated in SYRIZA on accidents? Do you know how many people are in the drawer and they're waiting? It's fifty-six! You're causing me, and I'm saying that. And because we could not change the committee and its administration, Mr President, that is why I asked for their resignation. So spectacular work was done by the SYRIZA government and the committee, which fifty-six cases that had to be investigated had never been investigated! And we had comments from many bodies and also from ICAO, who said 'what about these cases?'. And they resigned immediately, because otherwise we would have other developments. Now we are going to AEGEAN and I am closing, Mr President. Mr. Poppas is doing something very clever. I admire the so-called radical left for this. You're distorting the truth. What's he saying? Listen, he says, "You got shares in "Aegean"? You did not receive shares.’ Isn't that what you're saying? Warrants, do you know what it means? Warrants means the right to take over, Mr. Pappa, that you're protecting your risk. Evidently, Mr Pappa, the left is not renowned for her negotiating cowardice in economic matters. You proved it. Let me get you a dictionary of finances to see, open it up. Because you've taught England too, I guess you should know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u77	Not to me. We know something.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u78	Well, to know now what we're saying, and I'm closing down with it, what is this government doing now? It does what was not done anywhere in Europe but in Austria, i.e. part of State aid and part of capital increase. He's asking the private person to put money out of his pocket.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u79	He doesn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u80	But how does he not? He puts 60 million. And then he says that "I have the right to judge that I am in the interest of buying the shares. Because if I take the shares now, I take a big risk." You do not understand these risks, Mr. Pappa, because you would abolish the Memorandum with an article and a law! Where would you understand that? ‘AEGEAN’ has all the characteristics of the national air carrier. And we have not only supported AEGEAN, Mr Pappa. We also supported the SKY EXPRESS, and we supported other airlines. We supported both the 'FRAPORT' and the 'AIA'. Unless you want the air transport system to collapse in Greece. You obviously don't want to. You're serious, you've nursed in a ministry, and you understand that. So what do we say here? You compare what Greece is doing with Portugal. Portugal has given 1.2 billion. A great deal of money has been given, 32 billion across Europe, to support the air transport sector. So we did what we had to do by ensuring the public interest. I think that what you say is not about reality. Unfortunately, SYRIZA returns, ladies and gentlemen, to the unbalanced activism of 2012-2015. That's what you're doing. You blame everyone for everything and you have a huge allergy with the real facts. So for all of this, you will get your answer with information we will submit. And every rascal on his bench! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u81	Mr Gokas, special speaker of the Change Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, they all wear a mask in this Chamber unless they speak from the bucket. It applies to the ministers, to the Prime Minister, to the parliamentary representatives, to all. Keep this up, because I don't like to talk this way. You made a decision at the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u83	That's right. We all have to wear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u84	If it's the distance that counts, we'll go back and talk without a mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u85	Okay, you're right, we all have to wear. Just because yesterday, if I'm not cheating, and the Chiefs and Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u86	The Chief of Officer Response kept it. The Prime Minister has not kept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u87	And I beg everyone to wear masks. All right, Mr. Loverdo, you're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u88	Is it nice to speak like that, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u89	Okay. When I announce one time to sound, for a second, I take it off when no one's underneath. Mr. Goka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill we are debating today, but also in the previous days in the committee, a complete separation of competences and functions in the field of civil aviation by two different entities is being undertaken by the Civil Aviation Authority, the AAC, which will exercise the control, supervisory and regulatory role of air transport and air navigation and the Civil Aviation Agency, the PSC, which maintains and pursues the operational activity of providing services and the related regulatory activities in this area. In addition, the PSC is transformed from an independent public service to a legal person governed by public law. The reference to the recommendation of the PSC by this draft law is, in my opinion, unreasonable, as the recommendation was made with Law 4427/2016 by the SYRIZA Government. The first question, therefore, is what the position of each individual is for the separation between control and the provision of services is not the case in this bill. Everyone's seats are there. It is known that Law 4427/2016 stayed on paper. It's never been applied. The weaknesses, the omissions, the gaps and the logic of the arrangements that had been made by his arrangements had been pointed out at the time, along with a number of issues, such as the method of selecting the commander that was not predicted to be Greek or safety issues and others. That is why we voted'residents' in that bill, although, in principle, our political position and attitude are positive towards establishing independent principles in the areas of public life that this is required. And this also appeared in practice with the PASOK governments that created and supported many independent authorities starting with the ASP and their institutionalisation with the 2001 Constitutional Review. Recall that SYRIZA was against the independent authorities until then, while in the draft law on segregation and establishment of the NPV the New Democracy in 2016 voted on its own reasoning, "against", it voted "no". As we have already mentioned at committee meetings, there are many and serious issues of substance that will cause problems in its implementation or failure to implement and does not guarantee any effectiveness for the objectives it has. For the way each country attempts to harmonise it with European regulations and legal obligations to international organisations, there may be different approaches. The choice of the independent authority as a control and supervisory body should create a truly independent authority, without overlap with the audited bodies, without regulatory powers on administrative and financial matters of the other body, in this case the PSC, and should relate to the minimum obligations that exist. In this draft law, the independent authority takes too much and certainly the functioning of both bodies should serve their role and tasks, their work on the quality of passenger services and rights, airport safety, flight safety, national safety issues, FIR capacity, along with our geographical location in the wider area, as well as on supporting development throughout the country, as well as on issues relating to workers in both bodies. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, around all of this, has emerged in particular in the debate and with the institutions, where the representatives of all the workers' organizations and branches have mentioned problems and malfunctions that have arisen and pointed out that despite the consultation time there has finally been no dialogue with the Ministry's leadership, and no proposal has been taken before and now has been taken into account. As is characteristic, the dimension of their tonights with the other operators, the PSC and the PSC, but also with those active in this area, airlines, concessionaires, air transport undertakings. For us, ladies and gentlemen, the views of all are respected, but above all safety is the public interest and the national interest. The juncture of our country at this time with the pandemic of COVID -19, the mistakes made since the summer and after the government have resulted in the second and deadliest wave where, unfortunately, lives are unfortunately lost every day. And this comes for the air navigation area after a long economic crisis since 2009, and so we have also had a critical impact on the air transport sector. A reduction of 50% from the beginning of 2020 in passenger traffic and flights shall be recorded by the PSC a week ago. The agency has already had problems with management over the past five years, even in technical equipment, which is largely decommissioning. In the case of state aid, which is a great deal of talk and is well-off and justified - we recognise the problem. But there must be two basic conditions: firstly, safeguarding the public interest and the workers. To give shares without voting rights that can be sold and not potential shares with the right to redemption. The second is the participation of the private investor in its own funds. And we call on the government to show the same interest, the same welfare and support for the small and medium-sized enterprises that are currently being seen. Also, let the cohort stop around the barren lines. We must resolve this sensitive issue, which is not just about local societies, which concerns us all. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the previous law, the arrangements and provisions for both the PSC and the PSC, in our view, do not guarantee their operational, administrative and economic independence. The nature of the supervisory authority is not clear. Is it an independent authority, or is it simply a regulatory authority, which is actually designated by the Minister? And why should it have a regulatory role in the functioning of the PSC, as we said in detail in the committee? Also, other issues that arise: how is control carried out everywhere and for everyone, without the regional authorities of airports, and even with shrunk staff, fewer qualified and proportionately unrelated to the subject, as foreseen by transfers of twenty-five employees from other bodies? How sensible is it that the AMP should draw up the performance plan on its own, a plan of which affects the money collected from EUROCONTROL, but also the compensation of employees, creating a circle of problems that reaches up to and including security issues, with the very blurred landscape for the resources collected and their allocation to remain? And what is also the reason for converting the PSC to a legal person governed by public law, a critical and sensitive state in the narrow sense of a service? We will see some basic points on them, since we have talked very thoroughly about everything in committee. First of all, the Minister shall decide on the appointment of the Governor and the Executive Board. The President shall only be consulted by the House's Committee on Institutions and Transparency. How independent a principle is when there is provision for project support by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport? While Article 12 provides that the commander of the ADP will ultimately have several powers and responsibilities relating to both staff and staff issues by a single representative body, but also competences such as certification of the person controlled, i.e. the OSH. The provisions of Articles 42 and 48 show a redistribution of revenue from both the revenues from EUROCONTROL and from airport development and modernisation charges and from the fees from departing passengers, with specific rates for both services and as an alternative, the financing from the State budget is provided for. I will not go into the figures, they are well-known, and we have seen them in detail in committee. The AMP, the independent authority is essentially financed by the audited body through the resources of EUROCONTROL. That is not ethical, and we have also told the committee, and it is reasonable that there should be a decoupling of the finances for the operation between the agencies and that the resources should be paid according to the work and needs for everyone. To be clean about autonomy in everyone’s function. Attributes, the APA receives money related to the service provider’s work, i.e. infrastructure, system modernisation, airport upgrading. All this should be cleared up and not cleared up in the best way. Article 23 on the structure of the new authority provides for the abolition of regional airport authorities and their replacement by inspectors whose work relates to a number of responsibilities, such as pre-examinations, on-the-spot verification of infringements, participation in state emergency plans, implementation of operating plans, day-to-day supervision of the airport operator and all other security actors. Many sections are also merged, while the important work of the technical service's management in studies, licences, supervision and project receipts is not mentioned anywhere in this way. Some specialities are also omitted, such as telecommunications, especially for the airports of the barren lines. Ladies and gentlemen, with the abolition of regional authorities there is a problem with the centralisation of air transport supervisory. The remote operation of all responsibilities without the on-the-spot and physical presence will create serious security problems, taking into account the specificities of our country, the number of airports and operators active in all of them, as well as the rights of passengers and workers. Technology cannot replace personal presence in all these objects. It's too much. Control by the small number of inspectors will be insufficient in fact. Nor can control be allowed to be carried out by airport users, as was said in the hearing of operators. Regional authorities must remain. One hundred and seventy-two positions are recommended against four hundred eighty-seven, according to Article 10 of the a.d.84/18. This is a long way from the respective authorities of European countries. Are responsibilities reduced? The APD project? I guess the opposite happens. There is also an indirect assumption from the APM commander who spoke of the possibility of new recruitment. Why not fill in the existing staff? And why is the provision of staffing the positions of directors of the Directorates-General and of individuals from the private sector with a three-year contract? Another crucial issue is the definition of the performance plan of the provider by the controller and the link to the resource efficiency of EUROCONTROL and the compensation for staff. It creates too many problems. Not applicable. The provider may not participate in the development of this plan nor is it in favour of safety exceeding limits. The combination of service and speed must be linked to safety. That is why we believe that most of the compensation must be disconnected from these objectives, which must have the meaning of the bonus, of course. This process, as foreseen, may lead to the ending of both loss of resources for both the public and the workers. In the second part on the PSC, the Civil Aviation Service has already been an independent public service. It was not justified to convert it to a legal person governed by public law or to do so under Regulation No 317/19. Its administrative and financial self-sufficiency is not given the new form, but many issues arise in connection with its operation from now on and with the financial results for both the operator and the workers, as developments are taking place. We do not understand and do not agree with this change. In addition, there is a relationship of overlap of competence with the AMP either in matters relating to administrative, for example, the removal of UPA sectors by the AMP Commander, or in financial terms with the AMP subsidy plan, as well as the return on resources from the AMP to the AMP. This leads to the need for the objectives to be shaped within a framework of agreed cooperation and institutionalised among all actors. Do not remain in the case at the highest level of goodwill for cooperation. To have a kind of a memorial of good cooperation. There is no shadow for purposes in the setting of targets. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There is an explicit provision in Article 62 for the selection of members of the Board of Directors of the HR by the Conference of Presidents, in agreement with the Committee of Institutions and Transparency of Parliament, following a recommendation from the Minister. Why shouldn't there be something like that? And why not provide for employee representatives, who are experienced and with a high level of training and education? In addition, there could be a department or even a school in the AAA to train inspectors. I should like to close, Mr President, by taking a little bit of my time in dentistry, one or two minutes. Resources and financing of the AMP mainly from EUROCONTROL: Reductions of up to 70% in compensation incomes under the current conditions are caused. Therefore, part of the unsettled sums of EUROCONTROL for staff, as well as for the Occupational Insurance Fund for OSH - OSH, as has evolved. The future of air transport, especially after the pandemic, cannot be predicted. In 2013 with L.4146 a reserve account was set up to deal with emergencies. If it had worked, it could now have a reserve of up to EUR 50 million. But the fate of the reserves has been known to us in recent years. There are therefore many open issues, as we have already discussed. I will, however, close, ladies and gentlemen, saying that in principle we have responded to this division. The AMP is set up. There is. He's got a commander. In fact, we voted in favour of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. The issue at present concerns the bill itself, its provisions on the functioning and responsibilities of both the PSC and the PSC. All this can hardly be implemented. And if they apply, they won't have the effect. The creation of a legal person governed by public law, i.e. the conversion of the AMP, is rather like a return to the past. We are therefore talking about a law which, instead of improving, makes matters worse. It has reserved for our position at committee meetings in principle. We have raised many issues and proposals, as well as today. But there were not even so many changes in the bill from the many comments and suggestions from the institutions, which were not so many of them. In addition, no response was given on key issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u91	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u92	I shall conclude, Mr President. So there are the critical provisions with which we cannot agree. We therefore vote 'in principle' and we will vote positively on what articles we have no reason to oppose. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, too. Mr Manolis Synthrakis, special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. This draft law, in the view of the Government, is that it will become more operational for airports and air navigation. The question, of course, for you, is not exactly about the government, but about how it will become more flexible and more effective to increase traffic flows for the benefit of airlines. After all, this story, the issue of liberating and privatising air navigation services and air traffic management, has been starting for several years, already in the mid-90s, which has therefore been served both by the PASOK and New Democracy governments and by SYRIZA and continues, of course, again today. This, of course, is accelerating through the Single European Sky that seeks to limit the fragmentation of European airspace between national air spaces of the Member States, military and civilian uses. Consequently, it increases the capacity and efficiency of air traffic management for the benefit of air carriers, i.e. airlines that make air transport, reducing flight costs and thus increasing their competitiveness and profitability. We are all very well aware of the transfer of airports to TEAD and then to the UFO. Law 3913/11 opened the way for the privatisation of airports, so that the government of SYRIZA would come in 2016 and assign the fourteen airports to "FRAPORT", while it is before the gates and other airports. In the course, the Civil Aviation Service was divided operationally by the creation of the Directorate-General for Air Navigation Services, giving the Commander of the HR the right to proceed with the clearing of excess personnel and lastly by the law of SYRIZA 4427/16, which the HR, the Civil Aviation Service, was legally separated by the establishment of two legal persons of the Civil Aviation Service and the Civil Aviation Authority. To these two legal persons, SYRIZA then gave the form of public services and celebrated that he managed to maintain the public character of the now dissolved Civil Aviation Service. However, it has not been too late to prove - to those who doubted - that the person providing airport and air navigation services will no longer be the state, but the great private interests. This is demonstrated by this draft law. The pure public nature of the two services is now disappearing. This independent authority, the AMP, is now made with economic and administrative self-sufficiency. All regulatory, regulatory and supervisory powers of air navigation shall be conferred. It takes over the entire supervisory part, the implementation of the Single European Sky and the development of the national air transport strategy. You allow it to suspend and dismantle areas of the Civil Aviation Service by putting air traffic control, fire safety and other systems at risk. It will define the transnational agreements, while giving it the opportunity to access classified documents, putting even mail from the Ministry of National Defence with the Civil Aviation Service at risk. On the other hand, we have the PSC, the Civil Aviation Agency, which you are turning into a legal person governed by public law, also with economic and administrative self-sufficiency, without any assets, as the airports are located in the HIADF, while it is housed in rent buildings. Its role is limited in the provision of services and airports, until they are also allocated to individuals, air navigation services, and even to them, and also to the water services we will see where they will end up. The pretext, of course, which the European Union has invented for segregation in PSU and PSU, adopted by all the governments of the Member States and our own, is that it cannot be controlled. In other words, the agency itself cannot legislate and supervise and provide supervised services as well. It is clear that the road opens for the full privatization of both services by extending their economic and administrative self-sufficiency, and very soon a new draft law will come, which will transform the Civil Aviation Service into a legal person of private law and the supervisory control of the AU also pass to individuals. It is no accident that they are placed openly in favour of the bill - who? - SETE, 'FRAPORT', 'AEGEAN', that is to say, market operators, precisely because they ensure that they have a say to both the Civil Aviation Authority and the Civil Aviation Service. From the debate that has taken place so far in committee, the strategic engagement of the New Democracy, SYRIZA and the Change Movement has become apparent. They move to the same strategic canvas, accepting the central core of the European Union's air transport policy. They don't disagree in segregating the PDD into PDD and PDD. They are fighting each other, that is, how this process is to be launched. They do not, however, intend that this separation with the independent authority and with administrative and financial self-sufficiency on the one hand and the Civil Aviation Service on the other hand, as a legal person governed by public law, also leads objectively to the privatisation of air transport. The Government, on the other hand, considers that the safety of flights is jeopardised by these arrangements. It responds that no flight safety is at stake. And yet, the opposite is going to happen. Security rules, in accordance with the new rules, must serve competitiveness. Air safety is subject to cost-benefit logic. It will depend on the risk assessment. Flexibility is introduced in the regulation of safety, the abolition of all these regulations that make entrepreneurship difficult, with excessively restrictive requirements and complex time-consuming and cost-consuming procedures. The air traffic controller shall work with a specific maximum load resulting from taking into account safety rules. Pressure through the performance and remuneration connection, for example to increase airspace capacity in order to reduce delays, leads to breaches of safety rules. Air traffic controllers will be pressed to manage more planes to keep money from losing. The safety rules will become a tire. Fewer airports - because this is anticipated - also means fewer airplanes and airports. The cost-efficiency targets will lead to the reduction of costs for airlines charged with the respective fees. This means that the produced level of safety will be lowered, because the means, equipment and others will be sacrificed on the altar of reducing costs. The implementation of the European Single Sky, in addition to the abolition of the country's sovereign rights in the airspace, will have a negative and harmful impact on safety, since objectively the issue of competitiveness, which we have said before, will be raised as an advantage, in order to achieve maximum profit rather than maximum safety. In addition, you are attempting with the draft law and the implementation of the famous performance plan, in Article 43, to connect wages, remunerations on private-financial criteria, such as efficiency, efficiency and reduction of delays. You are preparing them for private investors to find them ready, a privatised low-wage civil aviation agency, and what is foreseen for the workers. This is not the case in the case of air transport, of course, in all sectors of the economy. You are trying to achieve this by reducing and gradually abolishing the EuroCONTROL compensation. Under the pretext of pandemic and drastic reduction in flights, this allowance was also reduced. Yes, but workers continue to provide their services and yet you do not even give them this reduced amount from EUROCONTROL. But you made sure last June that you subsidised the airlines, with tens of millions of euros, with priority - as you said - to secure jobs. Now you are preparing new aid, again with the Greek people's money, while at the same time airlines are engaged in a group of workers' redundancies. And, of course, SYRIZA is in turn proposing to buy shares in "AEGEAN", i.e. state participation. And what does that mean? That's a radical proposal. It serves nothing but the other mixture of capitalism management, this social-democratic model. But history has answered that, Mr. Pappas and gentlemen of SYRIZA. It teaches that the capitalist state as a collective expression of the interests of business groups cares whether by state participation or not to always serve and strengthen them. In both the New Democracy and the SYRIZA proposal, which concerns the two sides of the same currency, it is the state that covers the damages and effects of business groups. By the way, let us also say this joke with a donkey and a horse - I do not know if you know it - where in capitalism the state sells the horse to individuals at the price of a donkey and buy the donkey from individuals at the price of a horse. What does that mean? Whether in one form or another they are harmful to the people. Furthermore, the draft law expressly provides that aviation authorities will not be set up at airports. So I want the government to abolish these principles. All airports serving at the Civil Aviation Service are a hundred and eighty people. Eighty of them operate the airport control departments at thirty-five airports, private or non-private. We are talking about graduates of HEIs, with postgraduate, foreign languages, too many training and specializations in the aviation sector, and everyone has passed through the Civil Aviation School - four months - and everyone holds a flight level degree. What, then, is the reason to abolish the already staffed, highly trained and fully operational airports? Why should there be no state control over airport individuals when their structure already exists and fully functioning? What will the state and the government gain from this abolition? Who's going to benefit? Because the only ones who agree with this draft law - we have said that - is 'FRAPORT', it is 'AEGEAN' and IATA. They'll benefit. It is clear, therefore, that the draft law serves to complete liberalisation of air transport and services. The consequences will be apparent with serious risks to the country's sovereign rights and to our national airspace and tourism, at a time when Turkey is questioning the country's sovereign rights with the grey zones in the Aegean, in questioning the Lausanne Treaty and saying. The possibility of satisfying people's needs will be further aggravated. So air transport services for popular mattresses and people's households will be made more accurate. The conditions of workers in the air transport sector, particularly the Civil Aviation Service, will be further aggravated once there are a number of provisions that conceal this deterioration. For all these developments, the JRC had warned in time. Some people used to rattle us by saying that what we're talking about is anachronistic and utopian, that it's now data and they don't come back. We say that utopian is to believe that workers can secure their jobs at privatised airports and privatised air transport. We say that all of them are subjugating to capitalist gains and workers, the people must fight to stop this gain and not to correct urban laws, which in one way or another, capitalist profit always serves. The government, fearing the workers' reactions and today's twenty-four-four-hour strike, put lyrics and entrenched to prevent their struggle. The court - always in its observance of the law and order - unlawfully lifted the strike of workers at airports, as did the strike of air traffic controllers on October 26, as it does with almost all the strikes. Illegal and abusive! The velocity of Greek justice in the cases of strike confirms the animosity of the urban system against the right to strike. The JRC, ladies and gentlemen, called for the withdrawal of the draft law, so that this law would not pass - crime. Of course, the government did not surprise us, it did not accept it. It is clear to us that in this anti-grassroots way society will suffer the consequences of privatisation and the collapse of labour rights with precise services. For the JRC, the crucial thing was not to separate the regulatory supervisory part from the operational part. Our party has always fought and fought against privatization and its consequences for the people, along with the fight for transport, therefore also for air transport and airports that are social property. Considers that the Civil Aviation Service should be single under state control, that aeronautical and all airports should be included in its power and that all responsibilities to safeguard national sovereignty, effective safety and guarantee labour security for workers. They must also be integrated into a single air transport operator, which will serve the people's needs and not the profitability of the monopolistic groups. To conclude, Mr President, we call on the workers not to give in to these plans by the government and by the European Union, to stumble their opposition to the eruption of their conquests, to reject the fraudulent propositions of the social dialogue with the government and the delusional ones that lead to the logic of the lesser evil. The claim that in the European Union, when integration is completed, with a common policy in all areas, stability and the guarantee of national sovereignty is guaranteed has finally proved to be a very great fairy tale. We, Mr President, are therefore voting against this draft law as a JRC. Finally - just one word - we have tabled an amendment for the time-limit for the candidates in the notices of SAAP 1,GE/2019 and 2,GE/2019 on the presentation of the infringement of 3 euros. We believe that this is a fair request, that is not the responsibility of teachers, and that the government should accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u95	Thank you too, Mr. Synchronous. Vassilis Viliardos, special speaker from the Greek Solution, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, while respecting the rules of Parliament, I did not wish to participate in the previous debate, because I am not today a Parliamentary representative of the Greek Solution, but a rapporteur. However, our view on the arrests of women yesterday is that they were unacceptable, among other things, because the law in force is unclear. So the government is obliged to clarify it so that there are no unnecessary conflicts and such unauthorized arrests. However, the question of respect for human rights and human freedoms better, along with the conditions required for the fight against pandemic, is indeed something that concerns all democratic states, not only in terms of meetings and demonstrations, but also in terms of the mandatoryity of the vaccine - I stress the compulsoryity with which we do not agree - as well as much more. In relation to what has now been said about 'AEGEAN', warrants are indeed state-guaranteed and the EUR 120 million of support is not much compared to other countries. However, everything will be judged by the final result, while the big problem is the PPPs and the compensation requested, such as the EUR 175 million from the 'FRAPORT', but also from other companies operating in this way. In the bill now, first of all, we would like to thank the Minister for his detailed answers. It would be very constructive for his colleagues to function accordingly. This is, after all, the practical respect for democratic processes and Parliament. Unfortunately, however, we will vote against it mainly for reasons of principle, as we will explain below. In particular, we mentioned in the first committee that this is a very important bill, as documented, among other things, by the number of comments posted in the consultation, and there are reactions from the PSC that have been more intense in the past. But today, on the one hand, more and more Greeks have reconciled with the constant Memorandum Provisions - there is nothing else - on the other hand there is a great fall in airport traffic, and, possibly, that is why the draft law is being promoted now. However, it may seem as a self-evident action, as a European practice aimed at separating supervision from the ADP as an independent authority and operation by the ADP as a legal entity governed by public law by the division of the current PSC, but in fact what is being done is to limit the PSC and its costs to the benefit of concessionaires. We must add here that the bill was passed by SYRIZA, but it has not been implemented, and according to his officials, he has done so in order to obtain a dose of memos. In our view, it is unacceptable both to sign something without honoring your signature and to declare years later that it was a product of coercive, since no one obliges you to rule or bend your head. As far as the government is concerned, it explains all its actions by constantly invoking the previous SYRIZA, such as the sale of our energy businesses, the delivery of Macedonia's name in Skopje, the SYRIZA's heterogeneous contracts and so on. It is disgraceful to use such methods to avoid the political cost for its own choices, that is to say to claim that the state has continued, when and wherever it is in its interest. It also concerns and offends its members and Members, who would like their own policy to be implemented, not SYRIZA's policy. We are sure that they are ashamed of their leadership choices, as we have seen many times personally. In the first part of the bill now, and in the first chapter, the AMP is set up, it describes the operating plan and its responsibilities, its administration and the way it is elected, the Executive Board, staffing, organisational structure, budget, as well as how to resolve disputes and administrative issues. The second chapter covers transitional topics relating to the transfer of activities, staff allowances for the loss of expertise, the management of amounts by the European Union, by EUROCONTROL, the groundhandling regulation and airport modernisation fees. The second part shall include issues relating to the transformation or downgrading of the current PSC by its establishment as a legal entity governed by public law, the transfer of assets, the establishment of a command and board of directors, their responsibilities and the manner in which they are chosen, arrangements for the Civil Aviation School which remains in the PSC, its budget, its financial management and resources. Other provisions of the Ministry of Infrastructure are included in the third and final part. Continuing, the draft law aims at the division of the PSC and the creation of an independent State supervisory authority, the AAA. The PSC will be confined to a legal entity governed by public law that operates certain airports that have remained under state control, the loss-making, as the profit-making have been sold out. It will, in other words, depart from all the rest, as stated in the explanatory statement, while focusing on the provision of air navigation and management services for unauthorised airports and water routes. In conclusion, therefore, the purpose of the draft law is to separate the supervisory sector from the operational sector with a view to reducing costs, despite the fact that the PSO has a detrimental performance at the airports it operates. In any case, there seems to be no problem in the present situation, let alone when the PSC had a significant security record. The same logic was applied, of course, with the Independent Railway Regulatory Authority, with the RAA, as well as RAE, in the course of the sale of the respective state-owned companies, in the sense that the regulatory authority is independent, that the infrastructure charged by the State with losses and that profit-making services are always privatised. In this regard, we are more generally opposed to the continuous creation of independent authorities, how much more so when they are financed by the budget, without actually being controlled. In addition, we would never dismantle a public service that works properly in a strategic sector in the country. So we do not even raise a question of whether or not the articles in the bill are reasonable, since the bill itself is wrong. Continuing, I would like to say that there is no mention of any cost from the General Accounting Office of the State - we are used to it - despite the fact that, on the basis of the contract, the percentage collected by the State from the fees is redistributed by most of it to the AMP, as the State's General Accounting Office says in its report. However, we have asked for confirmation from the General Accounting Office of the State and the Minister for Zero and Non-Cooperatives that the costs of the draft law can be calculated, without any response being given to us. We have now said that the PSC will produce damage, since it will have to operate the twenty-three injurious public airports, such as aerospace and barren lines at a cost of EUR 40 million. We stressed that from the twelve atrocious lines in 2010 at the cost of the then 22 million euros, after the substantial absorption of "OLYPIAKIS" by "AGEAN" in 2012, under Mr Hatzidakis, of course, the barren lines became twenty-four at a cost of 157 million, as we tabled in the Minutes, although it was then reduced. As far as aerospace is concerned, costs amounted to 10 million before the pandemic, while they were largely served by our Air Force by conflicting it. Therefore, public costs, possibly significant, will be created. We also expressed the view that, through the splitting up of the PSC to a legal person governed by public law, there would be a reduction in the cost of 'FRAPORT'. Maybe that's what this is all about. After analysing Articles one by one, and there is no reason to repeat, calling for the withdrawal of 43 and 52 for the reasons we mentioned, our overall conclusion was that the draft law provides for the establishment of the Civil Aviation Authority, the AAS, trying to keep up with European reality in the field of civil aviation, as well as for the powers of regulation and supervision to be separated from the provision of the services concerned. However, in order to achieve this objective, it would firstly be sufficient to adopt all the relevant rules of European legislation. On the contrary, however, the draft law selectively adopts European rules, thus creating an incomplete and ultimately problematic organisation, possibly in order to serve the interests of certain sectors, as well as groups that want to favour. In fact, this authority will be responsible for defining the country's aviation strategy in accordance with Article 7(1). Its objective seems to be to create an agency with superpowers from the Commander and the Executive Board, which will be able to operate arbitrarily, i.e. to intervene whenever they consider it appropriate to carry out inspections, but which should only be carried out by inspectors, in accordance with the EASA and the Commission regulations. In our view, the role of the administrative bodies should be purely supervisory, limited to controlling legality in carrying out the operational work, without any intervention being made in the preparation of inspection programmes, the process of sanctions and the setting of inspection priorities. In addition, the control and surveillance of safety of flights, facilities, staff and passengers are equally important. Therefore, in the spirit of well-functioning and objective operation the hierarchy of controls by the administration, based on arbitrary and selective choices, does not go hand in hand. In addition, the provision of the draft law which provides for fines to be calculated on the turnover of the non-compliant operator, not on the basis of the gravity and the nature of the infringement, as would certainly be reasonable. The number of APM inspectors expected is inadequate, and we consider that the specificities of our country, the number of airports and operators involved in them have not been taken into account, as well as their distribution throughout the territory. The aim of the inspectors is to ensure that these bodies are adequately supervised, in accordance with the European requirements and with the current regulatory framework, so that we do not lead to poor controls and that the absolute priority of safety is stimulated in the air. In continuing, the draft law provides, in breach of European law, for the reassessment of inspectors, but they are already certified and in line with the standards laid down by the European audit mechanism. An arbitrary evaluation criteria are laid down, which calls into question the reliability of the inspection, and in the end the safety of flights. So while it quite rightly requires for inspectors experience in their industry, in violation of European regulations, it limits it in the last decade rather than assess it as an overall experience. The result of this provision is to risk finding inspectors outside the APM with multi-annual experience. It shall, at the same time, establish incompatibility for inspectors for the period after leaving the AMP which is not provided for in European regulations. In this way, however, it condemns the unemployment of inspectors leaving the AMP for any reason without any specific reason. Finally, completely arbitrary and unnecessarily separates the air traffic inspectors from the other airplanes, and there should be a single supervisory authority for all airplanes. It is reasonable, therefore, to ask questions about the feasibility of separation, considering that this is actually another Memorandum of Understanding. In conclusion, I would like to say that our main objections, apart from the general objection to the independent authorities, are as follows: firstly, the interests of the country, citizens and passengers are not served and state control is removed and supervision of all airports in the country. Secondly, the conduct of regular and extraordinary checks cannot replace the on-the-spot presence of the supervisory authority. The privatised form of airports requires increased control by the State. Thirdly, the transfer of all the responsibilities of the old RCF to the AOC, without staffing at the regional airports, where the structure of the airport is already in place, creates safety gaps and allows the uncontrolled arbitrary of the companies. For all these reasons, as we said at the outset, we will vote against the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, too, Mr. Villardo. Last speaker is Mr. Kriton Arsenis from Mera25. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. Parliamentarians and MPs, Mr Ministers, the government is actually turning into a public risk, both for health - something obvious - and for democracy, with what we see from 17 November to today. But we see that this bill is becoming a public risk and more and more in expanded sectors. This bill deregulation, firstly, the operation of large private companies at airports, abolishes the supervisory image, the public oversight capacity vis-à-vis large private companies. The enthusiasm of these companies in the consultation and hearing of the bodies is characteristic. They really only had the best to say about this bill! With this bill, the State ceases to be a guarantor of passenger rights and airport security. In other words, its ability to supervise the application of these rights is abolished and the entire application of existing national and European provisions in the control of companies in practice remains at the end of the day. There is not a single article in this bill that serves and defends the public interest. However, there are many articles aimed at strengthening the 'FRAPORT', 'AEGEAN', and even opens up the way to privatising the PSC and the APA, which is an independent authority, which will be supported and therefore there will be a question of the viability of its operation. As the heart of the bill is the abolition of the State authorities, which have the regulation, supervision and certification of the proper functioning of the airports in the country, the maintenance of safety regulations and contractual obligations of the airport operator, the provider of aircraft parking services, the airport air navigation service provider and the groundhandling service providers operating at the airport, all of them, that is to say, who declared enthusiastic about the draft law, which controls them with regard to compliance with the provisions of international conventions and regulations, as regards the compliance of passenger rights, disabled persons, with the application of airport, health and environmental regulations and regulations. Because within these are the "FRAPORT" we have been doing a survey of the last year's publications. We see reports: 'Fasting against the 'FRAPORT GREECE' by the RESEMA. They denounce to Chania the conduct of "FRAPORT" to AME", "without antiseptics and masks and gloves "Macedonia", "Workers of "FRAPORT" without a mask" and Mr. So these papers got a place. The government has brought in a bill regulating the problem on the other hand, not from the public interest, but from the point of view of uncontrolled operation and the absence of protection for the application of our common rules, the absence of application and protection of citizens' rights and the safety of the airport. It is shocking and the concept of excellence being applied here, as the government, not only chooses to shrink the APA from the previous bill of 2016 by the four hundred eighty-seven employees in the hundred seventy-two, not only chooses to gather all the APA's potential in Athens, but also reduces the percentage of workers who are university education. In fact, not only does it dismiss - it drives out university education workers from the AMP - but it will hire extra workers to cover the establishment plan, which is not a university education! It is interesting how much the government is fully moving against the European acquis, creating a unique model of services. This model it applies to the AMP does not exist either in France, Italy, Switzerland or in any other country. Let us see, if we applied the models of other countries, who should have been a number of workers in the ADP. Again, the ratio is only for the certified airports of EASA, which in Greece is thirty-two. With the French model in Greece we should have more than a thousand employees. With the Italian model, we should have five hundred nineteen workers, including those employed by Italy through its police. With the Swiss model, we should have in Greece a thousand three hundred twenty, instead of the hundred and seventy-two workers proposing a government. With the Irish model of a thousand four hundred forty - eight, with the British thousand - six - and German - five hundred - one euros, plus the people employed by its police, for whom there are no exact figures. That would be the choice of the government, if it duplicated one of the European standards, from the models of other countries. Since, however, the aim of the government is to deregulation, to withdraw the public interest from airports, not to control airlines and airport providers for whether they respect passenger rights, the safety of airports etc., the government chooses this: in Greece, which, unlike all the other countries I mentioned, has island status, it has too many airports which are international and are on small and larger islands, from Athens in the middle of one of the next summers, people will be invited to attend these airports and to observe the rules on them. It's obviously impossible. Obviously, the aim of the government is not to implement the law and protect citizens' rights. However, because the Minister, who is currently lacking in the Chamber, in his last speech yesterday, has once again presented a distorted reality, I would like to refer to seven points where he has distorted reality. The Minister said that a committee dealt with the ADA law, with this law. The Committee consisted of the Secretary-General for Transport, the Directors of RDP and the PSC, a working party, etc. In fact, since this committee was set up in December 2019, how was commander of APAs involved while appointed in July? Let me remind you that on 30 June this proposal was submitted to the Ministerial Council. You also say that the EASA spokesman participated and had checked this piece of legislation, the bill, as, of course, he had checked the previous one. Again here you are trying to mislead, because, you know, EASA can operate consultatively, but it does not interfere with governments' choices, and that is why it did not intervene when the previous government proposed some five hundred workers and does not interfere with you as a hundred seventy two. It will, however, intervene as to whether the regulations and airport safety are being applied. That is when she will intervene and then she will make her report. The Minister said that airports do not do much - six, mainly bureaucratic types of responsibilities - have - and I have the list - three pages with sixty-two responsibilities of airports. He also told us, and you reiterated this to us today, that the airport does not need to do the accidents, because there is an Air Carrier Investigation Committee. We wonder whether this is a lie or a complete lack of knowledge of them, because one of them is. The Air Accident Investigation Committee only takes action in the case of major aviation accidents, as in the case of the 'HLIOS' tragedy. At airports, however, many accidents occur on either an aircraft track or a car to a vehicle, a car to an operator with a small-scale aircraft, accidents at work, accidents at the transport of passengers. This is all arranged by the aviation authority and under no circumstances by the Air Accident Investigation Committee. In addition, it stated that the airport does not need to be present at the Airport Safety Committee when the airport chairs the Airport Safety Committee. He said - and this was too misleading - that in 2020 there were hundreds of complaints from passengers to Thessaloniki. Really, for the airport of Thessaloniki with the 70% reduction in passenger traffic, were there a hundred complaints? Indeed, he said that thirty airports and a hundred complaints are excessive when the truth is that there are twenty airports on 24-hour shifts. Nor did he tell us that most of them, precisely because there is someone at the airport, contrary to what you want to do, do not exist, that is, no one at the airport is solved on the spot, without anyone having to make a written complaint, with oral complaints. However, for some reason you do not know them, you do not want to see them, you do not want to hear them. You prefer to take a road that serves these big businesses, which in practice necessitates airports. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] The Minister also said that he has never seen an airport run aircraft control, when the Minister knows, obviously, that these checks are carried out before and after passenger entry, so that flights are not delayed. That's why he hasn't seen it. Furthermore, he did not answer us why there would be only a school for the LPD and not for the workers in the LPD. Is it not necessary to train workers in the AMP? Finally, a matter of substance: the Minister said that it was photographic about the provisions of the previous government to staff the Executive Board of the APA. I wonder: If they're photographic devices, why doesn't it fix them? What he does, however, is to remove any intakes through IASPs and all the process and, indeed, to abolish those already chosen through this procedure, while being in the process of controlling the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, which is manifestly illegal. It also intervenes in the work of an independent authority, as it chooses itself to appoint - instead of having photographic provisions - the new executive board. So if SYRIZA had any problems, fix them, change them. If there are photo devices, remove them. You want to appoint both directly and officially, without even needing photographic provisions. This bill, in fact, is a bill dangerous to citizens, to tourism and to airport safety. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You want, in practice, to dismantle and stop the control of large private companies operating at airports, you want no one to control the application of passenger rights, you want no one to control the rules on airport safety, you want all of this to self-regulation by private companies. This means going back to basic citizens' rights, going back into the public interest. We denounce it and vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr Arseni. Good morning, too. Happy birthday to as many as those who celebrate today. We're entering the list of speakers. Mr Pinheiro has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport restores the indifference of the government in the field of air transport and air navigation. We have had to keep up with European reality in the field of civil aviation for years, and separate the responsibilities of regulation and supervision from the provision of the relevant services. Another legislative hand of the previous government is being arranged by the government today. According to Law 4427/2016 it was our country's obligation to create an independent authority in the field of civil aviation in the context of harmonisation and European integration. The strong pressure from the European Union has forced the SYRIZA Government finally to implement our European obligation in October 2016. Unfortunately, the current presidential decrees were issued two years later. Our country has been overdue in the application of European law, and in 2019 the European Aviation Safety Agency launched the process of demobilising our country. Our country's international turbulence over SYRIZA finally had many people. The Government of New Democracy acted as a lifeboat in the futuan caused by irresponsibility of the deportation of the government. The relevant Ministry and the relevant Minister intervened in good time and efficiently. The main idea of this draft law is the radical consolidation of Independent Civil Aviation Authority in accordance with the standards of the respective European authorities - Member States of the European Union, with the primary objective of improving, consolidating, simplifying and creating a coherent national legal framework through which it is facilitated to promote the national strategy in the field of civil aviation, as well as the development of the aviation market through a clear framework of rules, as well as the reduction of state spending and the financial autonomy of the authority, which now takes a new legal form of administrative and economic autonomy, with particular emphasis on transparency, functionality and efficiency of the new authority. At this point I will make a brief location for Alexandroupolis airport, which, as part of the overall geostrategic upgrading of the region, is called upon to prevent the future. There are economic, military and social activities of great importance which contribute to regional development and security in the wider region. Some of them are about the possible installation of air means by the Greek Police, by FRONTEX of the EU. and US Army Air Force at Alexandroupolis airport. In addition, I will mention the activity of two pilot schools in our region. The airport's infrastructure and staff capacity are currently making friendly efforts to respond to increased needs. Mr President, there is a need for staffing, because the new roles assigned to the airport in Alexandroupolis are important. It also attracts private jets as it does not have the necessary supply tanks. Automatically, therefore, it is excluded as a station from a prosperous tourist audience. If we do not make progress, unfortunately, the whole air link will be served by airports from neighbouring countries with a loss of revenue. In addition, I wish to address the issue of the water routes to which the Government has given particular weight, starting with the draft law adopted in February, which concerned the conditions and conditions of authorisation. I am aware of the subject matter with regard to the concern expressed in my area regarding Alexandroupolis and Samothraki. Through parliamentary control with written questions and interventions I have indicated the need to create water in the Thrace region. The aim remains to link the mainland with the islands of the north-eastern and central Aegean. Waterways, at the same time, are a useful tool in dismantling the points of entry and exit to Evros and not just. Customs offices in Evros with incomplete structures and subservients are unable to serve adequately transiting passengers and cargo. So why not create such a connection between the Greek islands of the north-eastern Aegean and Alexandroupolis? Otherwise, the gap will be covered. Therefore, the creation of a water resort on the island of Niki, at the same time as the integration of infrastructure into the local helicopter base, which has been pending for many years, will ensure multifaceted and diverse transport in Samothraki. Besides, they're entirely indulging with the geographical sizes of the area. Also, this interconnection could contribute to the better and more frequent connection between Alexandroupolis and the island of Niki along with the ferry transport. Mr President, Minister, I appreciate that we must soon consider the specific issues that will affect the operation of the airport, the course of its exploitation, as well as the prospects of the water routes in Evros through the local port to which new geostrategic missions and roles are assigned, as shown by the interest of the four major concessionaires currently in the competitive process. I would stress that this draft law gains credibility abroad with responsibility and seriousness and at the same time harmonises with the European Union in the context of the European integration of the country, while at the same time restoring the legislative legacy of the previous government. We are healthy opening the wings of the Civil Aviation and creating new conditions for the waterways. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr Prussakis. I would ask you to send your speech to office 167, because we had some interruptions in the sound. Mr Christos Giannoulis has the floor from SYRIZA. I apologize, Mr. Giannoulis. I hadn't been informed that you had asked for the floor for a minute. You will now tell me seven minutes late. It's okay. To prepare Mrs Kefaliannis for the system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are, of course, starting with a sound return that exists and prevents me, although I have become accustomed to managing it on television. I would like to say to you and ask you in today's Conference of Presidents to convey that we have exhausted the limits of our all-embracing power to participate in a skilled and obviously, I fear, not inappropriate attempts to reduce parliamentary and democratic dialogue through teleconferencing, when by definition the number of interlocutors is at the limits of health measures with a self-determination presence in this House. We are surely at risk of developing into another form of TEN, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. In any case, we cannot understand why in the school rooms that you are ambitious to open again on 7 December, the twenty-five human bodies are acceptable within the safety standards and the six Members per cycle of debate are making health measures in the air. I can't understand that. A second thing I cannot understand - and I will say it directly without wanting to offend anyone - is that even taking supportive measures from the services and people of this House should be strengthened so that we can have a better communication, even in this way that you choose stubbornly and persistently. Let me give you an example. There can be no parliamentary control and democratic dialogue when you do not listen to the rapporteur for the Change Movement. Also, just before I did not hear or could not understand what Mr Publics said. And if that is what you think is a minor issue, let us go further with the irrationalities of this government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u103	Go ahead, because you've already lost two minutes. I told Mr Barkas yesterday that this would be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u104	I'm sorry if I abused your time for procedural matters. So we are talking today about the necessary changes in the formation of operators that will ensure a smooth operation of air transport. Because they also help words, we are actually discussing whether the government once again applies the model 'I said'. In one case, of course, it fits the arctic. "Speak" is now technical governance for the last year and a half. The core, the essence of what we are discussing, is whether there is confidence in this government to legislate, if there is confidence, Mr Karamanlis, on the Mitsotakis Government. There's also a favorite tool for you, polls, which comes to be added. With qualitative findings of the latest polls, confidence begins and is withdrawn due to your manipulations and the second wave of the pandemic. Of course, Minister, you have a talent. It's unique. I do not know whether it comes from the huge political experience of the family you bring and honor its last name, a family that has provided important services to democracy and public dialogue. But you have a special talent. It is the talent to denounce by accusing your opponents of demagogues. Do not have any suspension of poaching and lionisms by accusing your opponents of lack of knowledge. Show a technocratic and scientific commitment, while you are actually acting as an old-fashioned politician who will even, as you have said, put each man on his counter. In my opinion, Mr Karamanlis, and I will say this very briefly, a demagogy is to say that Mr Mitsotakis did not find a router in Maximos and at the same time keep in place, and he does very well, the public officials, the civil servants who were responsible for running and supporting Maximos in Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras. It is a disgraceful answer from the Secretary-General of the Prime Minister's office, Mrs Pepell. In January 2015, I remind you, Mr. Samaras did not have the elementary courtesy to welcome the new Prime Minister. He was gone like... - not to say it - as our people say. The demagogy is, Minister, when you want to demonstrate EASA documents, but to produce all the interventions - threats of deterioration since 2004, 2005, 2006, since the necessary reforms had to take place, but some governments have been soaring. Isolate only the time that's of interest to you. It is demagogy to tell us that airport employees have been evaluated, but that is not the case. No evidence, no information on how it was done, when and on what criteria. Here it would help you - I do not have the opportunity to present it, but I will try to find a way - the revealing and indicative tactic that appears in the declaration of the coverage of three hundred and sixteen seats by a colleague, Mr Mitsarakis, at the Ministry of Migration Policy, where Mr Matetarakis, who has three hundred and sixteen employees with the prospect of three plus six years, the main thing he wants to put as an evaluation and recruitment criterion, is the 30% premium. You can understand that in the interview the worker, and if he has ten graduates, five graduates and speaks five languages, he will have to prove, in particular on the basis of the statement by Mr Metarakis - and this is a game of history and of the juncture, this invitation was published on 17 November - how good a neo-democrat he is. It is also demagogy to claim that we have been charged with their workers. They should have informed you, you should know, Mr Karamanlis, the proverbial poaching that Mr Hatzidakis had made with the flying of "OLYMPIAKIS". Their sales bonds were tangled with Mr. Venizelos' PSI and loaded about a hundred flying people into the Civil Aviation Service. They were probably stacked and had no office to sit a hundred “OLYMPIAKIS” flying. And there were cases when, while being paid by the PSC, they worked for foreign companies in India, Bangladesh. Mr. Spirtzis has experience because he put the knife in the bone and on this case. And are you now talking to us about cosmopolitanism and creativity? I'm telling you, take a look at the call for the positions at the Ministry of Migration Policy, and you'll understand why we don't trust you. It is also a demagogy, Mr Karamanlis, that four amendments should be tabled yesterday, which is the proposal of the Officerial Representation to relieve our particularly vulnerable and unprotected fellow citizens because of your criminal inertia in the second wave of pandemic and especially in the preparation of public hospitals, and you should answer that Paulakis smokes. Yes, sir! Demagogy and unscientificness are to state with certainty that the Minister for Transport in "PARAPOLITICA" is not an outbreak of virus dispersion in buses and metro. Of course, I wonder what know-how you are still supporting this, Mr Karamanlis, and you insist. At least not to be so absolute because it will perhaps also be an excuse for not being an absolutely demagogic and small-party sample of political defence. Of course, when you're singing and you're questioning us about staffing public administration and public government machinery, you've obviously forgotten, with very short memory, the cases of commander of the NSA, we've also talked about them in committees, Lulis, Karditsa Hospital, Preveza and Artas, where the secretaries of the prefectures of New Democracy simply changed city, State Secretary for Foreign Affairs. It is an endless list, which does not legitimate you to support.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Giannoulis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u106	There is a phrase, Mr Karamanlis, which I believe surrounds the whole essence of what you have done or rather what you have not done in recent years and will follow you for many years. It is the statement of the commander of ITH Papanikolaou, Mr. Kapravellos, who said, "We have lost lives that could have been saved". I now enter what has been heard in the committees of the bill. You told us with emphasis and insistence, it was our last dialogue before the last committee was finalised, and I will see you in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Giannoulis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u108	You're obsessed with airports. And things have been heard that only dogmatism, prejudice and targeting can be shown. You say that airports control the general statement of the aircraft, the crew and the route and these can be electronically replaced. You are obviously ignoring what this control means. You are obviously ignoring, Mr Karamanlis, that airports control the adequacy, integrity, validity of cabin crew diplomas, who have the responsibility for passenger transport and safety on their hands and back. I would like to inform you that in too many controls, particularly crews from foreign airlines and therefore mainly from low-cost companies, they were forced to sit down on the ground, because within the vortex of the intense season, they were almost overdue. This airport is done at the airports of the country in this country called Greece. You also said that electronic and computer support would replace a number of accidents interventions. You say that airports don't need the accidents because there's the subcommittee on Air Carriage Investigation. Mr Arsenis has rightly said that you have a confusion in your mind. These are accidents when the loss of human life is caused and there are micro-accidents and problems and operating issues that airports need to resolve in the field, as is said, and not through a teleconference of the Ministry of Education, in order to facilitate the flow of air travel. You say they have pre-examination powers and no self-determination is required. For the first time in my life I hear that a pre-examination process can be done by means of a drone or by means of teleconferencing and a series of other things. Now let's go to the issue of passengers and complaints. Have you ever stayed at an airport, for example last summer in Thessaloniki, Minister, where I will of course catch up with you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u109	Mr Gikas has the floor for asking me for a minute and for Mrs Kefaliannis to be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. Because the suggestion - rather as a suggestion - was, for twelve minutes by Mr Giannoulis is inaccurate, I will only stand on something he said about the Ministry of Immigration. He said that the notice that came out...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u111	I'm sorry, but did you remove my word? I have not completed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Giannoulis, you have spoken for twelve minutes. I called you and you didn't listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u113	Deal, but that's not my problem. I want to conclude with one phrase. I apologise for the abuse. Time has passed, but I want twenty seconds so my location doesn't get cut by the microphone's closure. It's a little rude and unwise.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u114	I had no choice, Mr. Giannoulis. Finish in ten seconds and then listen to Mr. Gika. I imagine at least you have a timer in front of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much. I don't have a timer. I don't know if it's for the MPs. We're not athletes doing track training to have a timer, Mr. President. Anyway, I'm closing up with complaints.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u116	Help a little! You're only complaining! Can't have your tablet or mobile phone not have a timer down right! Don't tell me that!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, I have helped with a proposal on this...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u118	We didn't say you weren't right. You've got a thousand of them, but help. That's all I'm asking. Complete your sentence in ten seconds to listen to Mr. Gika, who has something to say about the Ministry of Immigration.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u119	As far as passenger complaints are concerned, I will give you only one example: they were airport operators who fined 5 000 euros for a foreign airline because they had left passengers for five hours with a temperature of forty degrees and no one would have the courage to do so, if there were not this high-certification team and qualified workers who are caring for so that we would not get to the complaints, but to heal and treat the problems at that time. Two words for...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u120	No, Mr. Giannoulis, please! I know you're listening to me and I'm telling you no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, just one word!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u122	Yeah, one word, but fourteen minutes you've been talking, exactly twice a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u123	It's about workers, and I think it's...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u124	Let's start with the workers! But you started with others!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u125	Don't give me any hints. Two minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u126	It's not suggestions, it's a complaint. As you wish, you take them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u127	Good. A company - and I close - with cedars...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, I am Simopoulos. What kind of complaints are you saying? What is being done, Mr President, is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Simopoulos, hold it for you. Now it's not very interesting...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u130	Let go of the controversy!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u131	We're going to 'Aegean', profits of 4,000,000 euros. Investment program...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u132	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Giannoulis, did you say so, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u134	...twice the rest of the time!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u135	You're right. Mr. Giannoulis, you're closed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u136	Excuse me, we all wait with patience!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Gikas, you have the floor for a minute, and then I will give Mrs. Kefaliannis the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u138	I would like to point out very quickly that everything Mr Giannoulis said in the fifteen minutes is inaccurate. In particular, for the Ministry of Immigration and the notice, which recently came out, what applies is that after the approval of the AACC there is absolute moleculosis and, depending on the position, a category of who is first, second, third, fifty. The first fifty will go through an interview and will be chosen, of course, who will be recruited. So there's the molecule. It has been done with the agreement of the AACC and what you have just said is a lie. On the issue of immigration...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr. Gika. Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u141	No, Mr. Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, wait a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u143	No, Mr. Giannoulis, we won't have a dialogue! I will give the floor to Mr Spirtzi for a minute, and then I will give the floor to Mrs Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u144	And less, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Colleague, don't take advantage of me, because I can turn it back in a second otherwise, because Mr. Giannoulis was listening to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u146	...cutting the microphone...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u147	You're right. Mr. Ghikas is a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u148	No, he asked for the floor for a minute and I gave it to him, as I gave it to you who are not a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u149	No, it's me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u150	I'm sorry. Go on, Mr. Spirtzi. I added the time. Then I'll give Mrs. Kefaliannis the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, I will take the floor after Mrs Kefaliannis. I would like to develop and present the SYRIZA amendment and on a point of order, Mr President, I would like to ask the documents tabled by Mr Karamanlis to be sent by e-mail to the Members who are following the meeting and, in particular, to the Members of the New Democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u152	So I'll give the floor first to Mrs. Kefaliannis and then to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u153	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u154	No, Mr. Giannoulis! Close Mr. Giannoulis! Mrs Kefaliannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, there is no way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, do I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u157	Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor. We're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, since Mr Giannoulis lives in the past, I think it is time to talk about the present and about the future, because our country and the whole world are being tested by an unprecedented health crisis which has huge consequences for almost all sectors of the economy and in the areas of social life. Responding to the consequences of the pandemic has brought the demand for rapid reforms to the fore and has highlighted the need for a rapid fight against chronic government malfunctions. The bet, therefore, of increasing state efficiency in order to meet the enormous challenges remains open and is multifaceted. Times require state flexibility, harmonisation with European practices, more transparency and accountability. That is why the functioning of the state, the quality of the products and services of the market should guarantee the competitiveness of the Greek economy and especially the next day, when, with the good work of all of us, we will be able to talk about recovery and sustainable recovery. In this respect, today's draft law lays the foundations for improving the level of services to citizens and users of air transport, as well as the foundations for safer air transport after being drawn up by the strict surveillance of EASA, the European Agency. Therefore, the responsibilities of a regulator and supervisory authority in the field of civil aviation, APM and the provider of air navigation and management services and of airports and waterways, i.e. our known FMC, are separated. Our country is finally fully in line with the European network and international conventions, and fortunately it does so in time because the APA with the responsibility of the SYRIZA Government, which did not complete its provisions of Law 4427/2016, which it voted on under the urgency procedure and only existed on paper. That is why our country has faced the risk of degrading the European Aviation Safety Agency and we all understand what this would mean, among other things, to our country's tourism, especially at a time when the industry and the revenues from tourism have been unprecedented with a huge impact on the Greek economy and employment. This draft law provides for the radical consolidation of the Civil Aviation Authority in the standards of corresponding European authorities with an emphasis on transparency, functionality, flexibility and efficiency. The new authority will be supported by the relevant Ministry, but will enjoy functional independence, administrative and financial autonomy. It will not be subject to control or supervision by governmental bodies, but to parliamentary control. It will carry out certification, supervision and enforcement tasks in the field of air transport, air navigation and airports of national and Union law, as well as international conventions. There has been a great deal of talk about the number of organic positions which is reduced to seventy - two of the four hundred eighty - seven provided by Law 4427. At the same time, however, - and we are saying this and we support it in all tonnes - it ensures the self-evident transfer of organic positions, of ADP officials, without wage differences and, of course, of course, the Government's care for the use of personnel who will organically return to the UAA and are currently serving in ports that have been granted or are not. Now we're going to the Civil Aviation Service. It is reformed as a provider now and transformed into a legal person governed by public law by increasing its administrative and financial autonomy. These legislative changes enhance the efficiency and transparency of the service, particularly as regards the management of its resources. Ladies and gentlemen, there is not much to be said about the intact relationship between the air transport sector, the quality and safety of its services and economic development. The pandemic has further highlighted the vitality of the sector, its importance for trade, employment and, of course, for tourism. It is one of the main branches that supports the viability of the Greek economy and defines its growth potential. The quality and functionality of transport services are interconnected with the quality of the domestic tourist product provided. The global changes made by the pandemic leave no margin of obstruction or a discount in areas affecting tourist development. We pass quickly at a time when the attractiveness of the tourist product depends on factors such as safety, health conditions and state readiness to deal with emergencies. We therefore need to listen and adapt to the rapid changes that are taking place. The success of the country will be judged as a whole and to the extent that we are going to be prepared by this unprepared pandemic crisis. Small or large-scale interventions in the functioning of the State and the market should be done with a look at the next day. Modernising services, structures and infrastructure in terms of security, transparency and efficiency is the great bet of the country for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Mrs Kefaliannis, for keeping time. Like always a lady with "K capital" and I've said it before, if I remember well. Mr Christos Spirtzis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. You want the floor for an amendment, you said. Two minutes is enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u160	Not even two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u161	Two minutes of yours, not Mr. Giannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u162	Oh, no. Maybe less. An amendment has been tabled by the proposed Members, Nikos Phile and Merope Jufis, and I would ask you, Mr Minister, to accept it. It concerns Appointments for Appropriations for Appropriations for Appropriations for Appropriations for Appropriations for Appropriations for Appropriations for Appropriations for Appropriations for Appropriations for Appropriations for Appropriations for Appropriations for Appropriations for Appropriations for Appropriations for Appropriations for Appropriations for Appropriations for Appropriations for Natural persons have won judicial decisions. They shall make use of the right to benefit from the provisions of Law 4452/17. And that is why they must be appointed as members of the LAGs at the relevant former TEIs and the successor universities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u164	Not even 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u165	Yes, I do. Let's go to Mr. Dimitris Konstantopoulos from the Change Movement and Ietolakarnania.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the establishment, operation and responsibilities of a civil aviation authority. With this bill, ladies and gentlemen, an independent authority is being created, and this concerns the exercise of regulatory, regulatory and supervisory powers in the air transport sector, as well as air navigation and airports. This principle, ladies and gentlemen, will carry out certification, supervision and enforcement tasks - I would say - in the above areas. It will implement European legislation and international conventions relating to fees, the functioning of the single European sky, the security of civil aviation in the European Union and the protection of the environment against civil aviation activities. So, ladies and gentlemen, what do we do? We are returning to Law 4427/16, the law of SYRIZA, which attempted to separate the provider from the auditor of the Civil Aviation Services. Here, therefore, it should be stressed that this is a law that has not been implemented, to remind those who have asked to remember what happened with SYRIZA's Law 4427/16. I would say here that various issues relating to the delegated and the transitional provisions have not been complied with and we have been guided, I would say, in two presiding decrees, but without any result. You are aware, ladies and gentlemen, of our general position on the need to create an independent authority, particularly in the field of air navigation and airports, and of course, the position of the Change Movement in general for the independent authorities established by the 2001 Constitutional Review on the PASOK Government. However, in this case, ladies and gentlemen, there are many difficulties in reaching the desired result, namely that the services are operational and, above all, that safety and public and national interests are guaranteed. Because you are struggling with controls, Minister, and the safety of flights. And how's that? Because you are further burdening the few remaining inspectors and, in fact, you leave them to their fate. That is, I would say, the particular problem with the safety of flights. There will be no, that is, a counterweight here. Also, Minister, you are leaving the field free for private airlines and private airports. And that, of course, without any control. I quote some of the issues that arise and indicate that there was no effective consultation on the bill: Firstly, we have not understood why you are turning the PSC into a legal person governed by public law. Secondly, we believe that the abolition of regional airports will have an impact on the safety of flights and, of course, on matters relating to national safety and, of course, on passenger rights. The regional authorities, ladies and gentlemen, have a substantial but multidimensional role which cannot be exercised by an inspector. Here I would mention just some of their responsibilities: they are involved in state emergency plans and the implementation of KYSEA projects, a very critical and especially at this juncture. They shall participate in the threat management team in security incidents such as bomb threat, hijacking, capture of aircraft or airports. They shall carry out systematic checks and sampling checks on flight diplomas and on aircraft navigation documents. They shall supervise the operator of the airport while, of course, attesting infringements and imposing fines. They also monitor the implementation of safety legislation and, of course, through unlawful actions. In addition, the regional authorities are responsible for conducting a preliminary investigation in the event of an aviation accident. They protect passengers' rights with the power to impose fines on air carriers. That is why, Minister, we are firmly opposed to the abolition of regional authorities. We told you. Our rapporteur, Mr Gokas, has mentioned this to you too, and our parliamentary representative has told you. The CINAAL as a whole was rejected. Another key issue, therefore, which arises, Minister, relates to the common rules for the allocation of time available at Community airports. The authorisation shall be granted by the coordinator on a specific day and time. And this is about landing or take-off. I would like to ask this: How will this be ensured without on-the-spot surveillance and control? I also think that there are issues of confusion of competence between the AMP and the PSC, issues which also relate to financial resources, such as revenue from EUROCONTROL, such as revenue from various charges, such as the development and modernisation fee, but also health and safety at work. In particular, Minister, the issue of resources is very critical and you need to see it. Because the ADP will get around 80% of the resources, which are actually about the work of the PSC. This means abolishing control of air carriers. In other words, the government opens the door to private individuals. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, there are issues of the functionality of the new structure, a structure with reduced staff, and I would like to say, in analogous to other European authorities. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, the way in which the new structure is being staffed is causing questions. Minister, you are talking about an independent authority, but according to Article 11 the Minister will select the members of the evaluation committee. It's a oxymomile. Isn't it? What do you think? That is, checks and controls themselves. Finally, with regard to workers, there are serious issues of evaluation and use of returnees. And here I ask you, Minister: will they be assessed by those who have referred them back to the PSC? It is a reasonable question to many people, I would say, and particularly to all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe - and it is a common belief, and we have been told by the institutions - that airspace-sharing will not benefit the country. On the contrary, it will create many problems, in particular, Mr Polakis, in the safety of flights. And that for us is the most important thing. After all that and I and my fellow Members of the Change Movement have said, we are voting against the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr Constantopoulos. The turn is Mr Anastasios Hadjivassiliou, the Seraeus. Because there is a problem with connections, we will move on to Mr Simopoulos and we will come back to Mr Hadjivassiliou later. Thessalonikios from New Democracy Mr. Simopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u168	Mr President, what we have seen at the beginning of today's sitting can be said to be the theater of irrationality, I can say that, where we were owed, we were taken with the ox, or I can say that if the reality does not favour us, then we are in fact alas. So I can only comment on the suggestion made by the SYRIZA rapporteur, who was in fact succeeded against the government, in a way extremely sharp and at the same time in a way that seemed to be elsewhere, that is, it had nothing to do with reality, as if it came from elsewhere. And I'm explaining. The government is doing nothing more than bringing in a bill, which was absolutely necessary because, as the Minister explained, the small airports in Greece would have been degraded. So we were on the side of downgrading the Greek airports. Of course the government brought a bill differently, but with the same philosophy it had brought a draft law and in 2016 the SYRIZA government. But, as he did with many other issues, he put it under pressure probably from lenders, he did not believe in it and for three years he did nothing. So we had to modernise and cover the European Union's demands, and that is why this bill was necessary. I would therefore expect SYRIZA to vote at least at the outset and I would like the parliamentary representative present later to explain, Mr Spirtzis, why he does not vote at first. From there on, he may not vote too many articles. It is something that no one would object to. They have a philosophy in terms of the state, they have a philosophy, especially as regards public bodies, and they tend to have schoolchildren, not to use new technologies, and so too many employees and a large number of staff are needed. Before the bill was deposited, I was found by the trade unionists both from Athens and Thessaloniki. I have listened with real interest to their objections, I have written them down. I have spoken with the people responsible, and I would like to assure them - something the Minister himself has done - that there is no question of their wage and salary situation. In fact, they are highly qualified qualified staff, and that is why they must not be afraid at all. There are, of course, individual issues which concern them, and the main one - let us say the truth here - are those who are going to return to the OAS to see if they are not working and what happens if they are working later. But the Minister has made it clear that there is no working issue, and I should like to stress that, because I personally have been interested in this. Some other issues which fell into our dialogue, I think they have been fully answered. For example, I do not think there is a security issue, since we have this neighbour, and it is something that the Ministry has made clear once again. Also, with regard to matters that are confidential, but obviously, there are officials authorized to deal with classified issues. So if an APM clerk asks them to be classified, he will of course be authorized. I believe that the fine for refusing to give anything classified is too great at this point. EUR 15,000 is a number too much. Furthermore, as regards the legal person governed by public law, it is a catalyst that a legal person governed by public law is even the Athens Academy. So there's no second thought when the UAA becomes a legal person governed by public law. It is clear for operational reasons, because it should have a balance sheet that is better controlled and that is not a shot for the workers to date. I also think that there is no problem with such highly qualified staff combining targets with some other remuneration. I think the PD staff have the potential to do that. I conclude, Mr President, as Mr Spirtz spoke for thirty seconds - and that is a record - I will not abuse the time. I would like to add that, yes, both the Ministry and the government in this area are moving extremely reformist. We had the water bill. We had a bill that stopped the way in which - of course, in good intention, the SYRIZA government intended to reform - licenses for diplomas will be given. Finally, the reform of Law 4416 on public works comes. The government is also moving very modernly in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u169	We are also grateful, Mr Simopoulos, for the time being. That's how we help. I shall now give the floor to Mr Giannoulis, for the amendment he wants to support, the Minister for Maritime Affairs, Mr Placiotakis, and then to Mr Giannoulis for ten seconds that he wants to say and explain to us what the staff consists of. Here, Mr Plakkatakis, you have the floor and we wish you well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u170	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to express my pleasure at having the opportunity to participate in today's process. I want to invite everyone and everyone to be extremely careful. You know, I'm one of those who was religiously prospering the restrictive measures. But the virus is everywhere. We should protect ourselves and the people around us. That is why I call on all colleagues, but also all those who see us or hear us at this time to be extremely careful. The amendment introduced by the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy once again meets the demands of the times. Greek shipping is an extroverted business, which is carried out both within and outside our national borders, serving passenger transport, but also global maritime trade, in a safe and reliable manner. However, in order to enable our shipping to meet the requirements of the national economy, but of course also to respond to the high competition on the maritime market, all those tools, legislative and technical instruments, which are necessary for its smooth and uninterrupted operation, need to be activated. The provision that is being presented today is in the right context, that is to say, it is moving towards ensuring the implementation of the fundamental rule of our shipping policy, which is no other than safety for ships flying the flag of Greece, which are moving across all the borders and backs of the world. And of course, it also moves in the context of the uncertain need not to interrupt for one minute the communication of the islands with mainland Greece, in other words, not to jeopardise the social cohesion of the country and the economic stability of the island of Greece. At the same time, the aim of this provision is to avoid in any way leaking our ships from the Greek register, in which case our national administration will not be able to deal properly with the serious problems of the failure to carry out ship inspections in the classic sense that we all know, namely the natural presence of the inspector. The provision therefore introduces the process of conducting the technical, remote inspection of ships not with our own - obviously - improvised inspirations, but after specialized directives drawn up by the International Maritime Organisation and now being launched and followed by major and competitive flags worldwide. Ladies and gentlemen, I have repeatedly stressed in our National Representation the size and importance of the great Greek merchant shipping and the way in which it supports the national effort for prosperity socially and economically. There is no need, of course - I think - to point out again the fact that every move in the maritime sector takes as a priority the safety of shipping, maritime safety and, of course, the protection of the marine environment. The maritime space is modernised and new technological means come to provide safe solutions to the major existential problems. I think, therefore, that we are all aware that if Greece falls short of the ever evolving world shipping area, we will endure the future of Greek shipping and with it the future of our country. Our debt, therefore, is - and this is what we are serving again today - to keep the Greek flag high, without any discount on its quality. I am sure that this amendment will be accepted as a whole. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr. Plakkatakis. Again your pass! You refer to Amendment No 583 by special number 13, all right. Mr. Giannoulis is connected?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u172	Always!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u173	You have the floor for a second on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u174	Do you want me to laugh now or cry in one second?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u175	Whatever you want to do, your right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u176	So, Mr President, in order not to have any further conflicts, I would ask you to read a little more carefully the Rules of Procedure. Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u177	No, nothing, you're gonna answer, I don't want you to beg me at all. I've read what you wrote because you think you're still on TV. Answer Mr. Gika and I don't want you to say anything about me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u178	Good. The Rules of Procedure provide for a minute, not a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u179	You won't tell me about the Rules of Procedure, you will answer. Are you going to answer? I want the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u180	You should find out. Sure, I'll answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u181	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u182	Leave the show of authoritarianism now, they're not going through this. He said Mr Gikas - to whom you gave the floor as a non-debt, because he is not a parliamentary representative - that I lie for the statement by the Ministry of Migration Policy in relation to the notice. I read - in order not to eat your precious time - from the notice: 'For all the posts, the candidates are expected to be interviewed via an electronic platform. In particular, there is an examination of applications and supporting documents followed by an interview. Now we go to the division: Education 20%, social criteria 30%, general work experience 20% and an interview with a candidate 30%, the right thing, which is an absolute guarantee that all the previous ones can be overturned and that only the policy, family, or customer relationship of the candidate can be chosen."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u183	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u184	Mr President, I would like to speak. A phrase! For thirty seconds!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u185	No, Mr. Gika! Keep going!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u186	Because he called me a liar, I'll tell you one more lie, Mr. Gika. To answer and how many employees of AEGEAN have been made redundant lately, and we are giving them all 120 million euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u187	Mr President, I want the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u188	No, Mr. Gika, please, this is not the case. Then he'll want Mr. Giannoulis to answer. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u189	For thirty seconds!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u190	Not a second! And you're not a parliamentarian. That was the misunderstanding before. Mrs. Perka has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr President. I wish Mr. Plakkatakis also passively. But I see him fine, so fine. Today the process of voting, of course, on this draft law on the establishment of the Independent Civil Aviation Authority is being completed. Of course, I note - because the Minister says so many times - that we agree on segregation. But I do realize that, unfortunately, there is no chance of agreeing, but what matters is that we have not actually received an answer to any of our questions. I, at least, - and all my colleagues - have asked three specific critical questions. Nothing in answer, only lies, and I'm very sorry about that. In the short time I have, I'll be tempted to answer some of these. The biggest difference in the bill you bring to Parliament in relation to Law 4427/2016 is the abolition of aviation authorities. It is clear to us that the authorities, particularly at regional airports, ensure the safety of flights and passenger rights. These have been analysed. In particular, however, today in the privatised form of multi-billion airports, the peaking of Turkish provocation requires an increase in state control and the physical presence of the airport authority. Minister, you have restricted the responsibilities of airports to six, you have mentioned six responsibilities. It's over sixty. Finally, you took the finding that the latter don't need the spot, because everything is done electronically. I don't have time to answer to undo one. I will say, however, that you said that the airport does not have the responsibility for accidents, but the Air Carriages Investigation Committee. Can you not know, Minister, that this committee is taking action in the event of a major aviation accident - major accident - with loss of human life or destruction of assets? For the other accidents, which are the most often fortunately, such as accidents during passenger transport and the rest, the aviation authority is the only one responsible. As far as the argument is concerned, of course, that in the committee set up for the establishment of the AMP a person from EASA - you say so - I say that this person, which happens to be the same, had said 'yes' to a start of four hundred and eighty-seven people, present at the regional airports and also said 'yes' to an Athenian authority of seventeen and seventy-two people. Why? Because obviously his competence is to make it clear that security needs to be ensured. How this will be done does not concern EASA, which does not know the specificities and characteristics of each country. After the implementation of the law, EASA will carry out checks to see whether this flexible shape really guarantees security. In the end, while the private operators accept the presence of the principle - it became contractual, they have been obliged to do so, they are mentioned in their contracts - you are coming with the bill and you are letting the "FRAPORT" manage exceptional situations for the benefit of Greek interests. As far as staff are concerned, of course, the unjustified number - I said to you - you asked us whether it was for this magic number, for the four hundred eighty-seven, we were studying. Of course we did a study, Minister. A lot of work had been done by the PSC officials, which you should know, too. You, however, had the priority of canceling once again what SYRIZA had done - that is a regime - to help you twenty-five 'days', unrelated to the subject and to create the ultimate 'Objection of the Excellents', by dropping the proportion of the IPs, of those with a degree of 90% to 68%. But what if the refreshing proposal was finally made? Why exactly do you not want to give money for the oversight of air navigation? How else can we explain that from the already aeronautic end of EUR 30 - when the average is EUR 45 - the bill introduce only EUR 1, i.e. 3% of the fee for the supervision of air navigation? What if the rate for Cyprus of the two airports is 28.5% and Estonia of the four airports 22%? But let me not go on. Everything about New Democracy is the service of private interests, the "AEGEAN" is happy with the 30 euros, although it does not seem to be complaining when it pays Italy EUR 78 and security should go for a walk. As far as AEGEAN is concerned, I cannot help talking about State aid. I have asked you many topical questions, but they have not been answered sufficiently, such as all questions, of course. But I want you to understand this: of course transport must be helped, and of course air transport must be helped. However, this must be done with guarantees for the Greek State. It is not the time when a repayable advance is provided for all businesses in the country, to present warm money to 'Aegean'. I told you the day before that, for the aid that AEGEAN has received so far, all it did was fire people from airports. So he has so far received the money from the vouches, banned people, while he should keep the jobs, you are making a law so that he does not control himself with an executive board controlled by you and you want, among other things, to give it EUR 120 million. The State with the amount of EUR 120 million instead of shares ensures options to acquire AEGEAN’s shares within the next five years at a price lower than that at which it negotiates on the stock exchange the date of conversion of Warrants. In the event that AEGEAN fails, what is the Greek State's guarantee? At least answer that. Because you told us we'd have, we'd buy, and so on. So what if he's babbling? So why not buy off at the current price of the share, that is to say, around EUR 4 per share? On the basis of this price and not lower, the public with the EUR 120 million could hold 40% of the shares. But that's where the truth lies. In view of the fact that AEGEAN's largest shareholder is Mr Vassilis and with its participation to 36.68%, such a development would make the public completely dominant. And I come to something else, Minister, to which I challenge you, too, to reply. You are talking about the 'TAP' of Portugal. However, do you not know that 50% of the shareholder in 'TAP' is the public, the Portuguese State and that the government plans to increase its share to 72.5%? The businessman, Umberto Pentrosa, has just 22.5% and 5% belong to "TAP employees". So what are you comparing? Of course, at the same wavelength you move along with the 'FRAPORT'. It has received a suspension of 22.9 million for 2019, at the same time as in April 2020 its members received bonuses due to the super-profiters. And I ask: is the suspension planned for 2019, when there was no coronary? Oh, no. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Furthermore, they have also received a suspension for 2020, while 2020 is not over and there is no audit to see how much damage has been done, even though this does not matter - and here I have asked you a question - why the suspension is rather than the contract. There is no such thing in the concession contract. Do we keep the contracts? According to the articles of the Convention, it is not entitled. Of course, as far as we're concerned, she wants to know too. - Hot money. The executive board in your actions, while not bringing the committee's opinion to the House. Why don't you bring her in, Minister? The selection of members has already been completed since June 2019. Why are you trying in a completely unconstitutional way to stop a process at the stage of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u192	Please finish, Mrs. Perka.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u193	And the obvious is...(not heard)..."days" and have absolute control of the board. On the basis of this bill, the members selected will be from the Minister himself and not from an open competitive procedure. And as regards Article 43 on arbitration, that too is fine. They promote disguised financial aid in favour of private airlines and airport management companies, invoking that this was done by decision of the independent authority, which you have appointed. In any case, I would again ask you to tell us what the mutually beneficial solution between the 'FRAPORT' and the Prime Minister is. The flexible form now...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u194	Please finish, Mrs. Perka.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u195	I shall conclude, Mr President. Can I tell you something, Minister? I found that as New Democracy Transport Sector you recognized as very positive when the law was passed that the SYRIZA Government managed not to enter a process of divesting the airspace. We misunderstood it and thought you said it positive. Obviously, we misunderstood your words. You probably meant to let it go of you. And, of course, the responsibilities of the Technical Services Directorate go "in the air". Who will issue building permits? Who's gonna do the certifications? There's a void. However, this is a practice of delaying and entitled to compensation for those who are entitled, in accordance with certain conventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u196	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u197	Minister - and I shall end with that, Mr President - it is a bill full of unconstitutionalism and a multitude of committees and subcommittees. It is effectively degraded as a whole that AEGEAN and the only ones who were put positive for deforestation and degradation are ultimately the persons controlled, SETE, ‘AEGEAN’, and let us not forget ‘FRAPORT’. All that the 'FRAPORT' said was that it asked for a reduction in fines. That is why you have not only SYRIZA in front of you, not just all the collective bodies, but also the whole of the anti-population parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Perka. Mr Anastassios Hatzidis has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to what has been heard a little earlier in the Chamber. There has been a lot of talk about authoritarianism of the government. In fact, a fellow Member from Mera25 spoke of democracy in plaster, as it had previously been done, apparently implying an unacceptable comparison. We should all be very careful when talking about such issues. Rhetoric games with democracy are not useful and the least are dangerous and sad. Today, then, we have a bill that regulates the important issues of aviation in our country. As an independent administrative authority, therefore, the Civil Aviation Authority is finally set up in full application of Community law. This is a self-evident principle which will not be subject to the control of any government, rather than Parliament's control. So I have heard from colleagues from SYRIZA in the past few days that this bill creates gaps that can jeopardise the safety of flights and passenger rights. But that is precisely the objective of today's bill: greater safety on our flights and better protection for the passenger. Today, therefore, the Government of New Democracy is rightly separating finally the power to regulate and monitor transport from the activity of providing air navigation and airport management services. In a country where tourism is its heavy industry, it is necessary for their airports and services to be at a high level. Winning by upgrading services and infrastructure is not only a simple traveller, but Greek tourism and especially a national economy as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, it is right today that the PSC is separated from the PSC. In a European democratic country, the controlled cannot also be a verifier. So today we are legislating what the SYRIZA government left incomplete in 2016. In fact, the hurricanes and delays at that time caused two major problems. Firstly, maintaining the unprecedented European data of the matching supervisor and supervised, which is unheard of and, secondly, the serious risk of the European Union being penalised and, of course, the downgrading of our country by the European Aviation Safety Agency, EASA. So the current government and the Ministry of Transport addressed EASA and the relevant Directorate-General of the Commission, explained the situation in the field of civil aviation and in full agreement with them today brings to Parliament a bill which reminds us that we are living in a European country, a bill which has nothing to do with third-world practices that SYRIZA tried to implement four years ago. In fact, protests were heard about the ADP staffing positions. In contrast, therefore, with SYRIZA who was trying to settle "days" and had foreseen four hundred eighty-seven posts in a hydro-headed authority, as the Minister quite rightly said, the hundreds of seventy-two positions currently planned are currently covering specific needs and are based on a proportionate study. In the whole process, the OSCE, as well as the relevant European agency, EASA, participated. So, ladies and gentlemen, the legal framework is now being created to facilitate the development of a long-term national strategy on air transport in our country. We are fully in line with European legislation and we are finally creating a modern body, a reliable interlocutor for the respective European services. Passengers will now know clearly that this new authority will protect their rights transparently and directly. At the same time, the PSC is also shielded as a service provider and gains a clear administrative and financial self-evidence. In fact, I see that its function is strengthened, as the Civil Aviation School returns to that one, which was provided for by the previous law, but which was left on paper. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude with the question of State aid to AEGEAN. They have heard voices from the debate that it is not clear how the public's interests are protected in this process. Of course SYRIZA after his initial objection, now says 'yes' to support under specific conditions. So let's take things in turn. Under normal circumstances, AEGEAN annually delivers to the Greek State of EUR 400 million and its total prints to the national economy amount to EUR 2 billion per year. So last year he carried fifteen million passengers and I see that 12 million of them were foreign tourists. So, do we agree that he has to stay upright? Do we agree that it should remain up not only to save the jobs of its employees, but also to survive our national tourism industry? To date it is the only major airline in Europe that has not received any unpaid state support, with everything that implies for competition on the world market. So, ladies and gentlemen, the government does not donate to private individuals. The government supports a large Greek company that increases the GDP of the country, sets clear conditions for granting state support, of course in the context of the exceptional conditions created by the pandemic, and even sets strict conditions in relation to aid models that we saw were applied to other European countries this year. The main condition is the participation of the private shareholders of the company in any package agreed and the State will have the right to acquire the company’s shares whenever it considers it appropriate or necessary. And if that happens, the State will be able to buy those shares at a price lower than that at the time. Therefore, we have a double safety test for the protection of the public interest. In any case, strong tourism needs powerful air carriers, and that is a given one. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill finally goes into the field of civil aviation and the road to quality and safer services for the citizens is opening. That is why we are voting in favour of the bill of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr Hatzidis, and to keep time and move quickly to Mr Katrin from the Change Movement. Mr. Catarini, you have the floor. From your position, please, with the mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing today a draft law that substantially amends Law 4427/2016, a law which attempted to separate the regulatory authority and the creation of a new independent authority, the Civil Aviation Authority. Finally, the only thing that has happened is that two presiding decrees were adopted and in practice almost everything remained stagnant. The only mobility was the appointment of the President of the Authority only in the last six months. We would expect, following the experience of the inapplicable previous law, that the current government would bring in a comprehensive law with a clear framework for the structures, operation and the responsibilities of the new body. Instead, we have re-recommendations with ambiguities and doubts about the effective functioning and sustainability of the two parallel structures, the Civil Aviation Agency and the Civil Aviation Authority. We are waiting for an answer to the question concerning the conversion of the PSC into a legal person governed by public law. Is it related to any need for its role, mission or work? This is a reversal which causes problems in the functioning of the PSC and in its own self-interest, and I think it should be adequately justified. In order to avoid duplication of competence, it is necessary to clearly define the framework for the independent functioning of the Civil Aviation Authority with all the necessary guarantees for the continued and safe operation of the Civil Aviation Service. Has our rapporteur, Christo Goka, told us that in terms of operation we are concerned about the definition of the commander by the Minister, why, in fact, what guarantee of independence and credibility he provides? As far as the resources and remuneration of workers are concerned, we believe that they are not adequately guaranteed. It is planned that the state budget will be assisted at the end of the year, but workers need an environment of economic security to be able to deliver, cooperate and ultimately guarantee public security, because that is what I think, with the provisions of this draft law. Also important is the question of staffing. We have also said so in committee, and Christos Gokas said so, and we repeat it. Organic positions are falling from four hundred eighty-seven to seventy-two, a total of completely inequitable with other European countries. For example, in Italy for ten airports, the respective authority has six hundred forty-seven staff. Also, the bill that we are discussing is abolished by the state regional authorities, with the future of workers at the fourteen concession airports, especially in this very difficult economic, social and political situation for the country and the workers. There must be provision for setting up regional organic airport units at the non-allocated airports and regional organisational units of airport activities at the concessiond airports. With this provision, if and once the Government adopts it, it remains the unit of the Civil Aviation Service at the concessiond airports to which public, on-the-spot and on-the-spot controls may be granted or delegated. There are many questions about the checks that have been carried out so far by these authorities. What will happen in the future, given that not all the supervisory powers can be conferred on individuals? Who will exercise control over sensitive and serious issues from now on, such as flight hours attestation, degrees and suitability of candidates, the conduct of a flight crew alcohol measurement, but also staff working at airports, speed limits and, in particular, at a critical juncture with the exponential threat of who will be responsible for aircraft detaining or banning aircraft in danger conditions or in cooperation with the National Intelligence Service? National safety, but also safety of flights, only one staff of highly qualified qualified personnel, which will be fully exploited, can guarantee it. The institution which is being attempted will lead to malfunctions, since the law is implemented and does not have the fate of the previous, which was also well-intentioned, but was never implemented. However, it seems that neither the functionality of the services nor, above all, the safety at all levels, nor of course the public and the national interests, is guaranteed. In short, this is a recipe for regenerating old-fashioned pathogens with a new institutional framework and for new problems to arise. But is that what this is all about? I conclude, Mr President, on the issue of support for AEGEAN. It is a question which is self-sufficient, but which is linked to everything I have just said, since in fact the company holds this position of a national air carrier. A company with an important role in the economic and social life of the country in the critical air transport sector that has been particularly affected in this crisis, we cannot leave it in its luck, nor can support be given unconditionally. The same is true - and I would like to stress this, Mr President - of all the other airlines of Greek interest which, according to secure information, were also asked by the Minister responsible when we asked Andreas Loverdos and Vassilis Kegeroglou - while they applied for a loan from the Guarantee Fund and the entrepreneurship fund II and while they met the conditions - I am talking about 'ELLINAIR' and 'SKY EXPRESS' - they did not receive a loan. And this should be seen by the government, if it really believes in free and healthy competition, which provides for equal access to the financing of all the companies that meet the same needs, but also face such problems, which are ultimately treated differently. AEGEAN, but also other companies, must continue to meet the needs of the citizens, especially in a country with great insularity and, of course, maintain jobs, which is unnegotiable for us. As a Change Movement, we set two preconditions for this support or similar support which can be given in the future: on the one hand, the participation of the shareholders in the programme, on the other hand, the safeguarding of public and employment interests. In addition, we propose that the agreement also provides for the acquisition of the company's shares by the State. Such a framework can guarantee sustainability and the public good of transport and jobs. And that is what we need at this juncture, sensitivity, efficiency and sustainability, because all this is interconnected. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr. Katrin. I will now give the floor to Thessalonikios Dimitris Kourides from New Democracy, and then to Mr Loverdos, the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement. Here, Mr. Courides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u203	Thank you very much, Mr President. However, if I may be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u204	I'm sorry. You're right. I know you as a Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u205	Well, of course, the origin always stays. Look, I listened very carefully to the debate we had in the relevant Commission and today in plenary and, indeed, I find it very difficult to attend some time - very often I would say - the reluctance of the representatives of counter-population. And I am referring to the previous speaker, the good representative of SYRIZA from Florina, who wondered what would happen with the warrants if AEGEAN went bankrupt in the future. At the same time he asked us why we don't take stock now. I wanted to ask her what is going to happen if we go bankrupt tomorrow, in the future, 'AEGEAN', but we cannot do this type of direct dialogue. It is against such a chance that the price of the share comes from the government and makes this type of regulation with the warrants. Obviously, it is something they cannot see in the opposition or do not want to see. In any case, we are now going to the main, the bill where we are discussing the Independent Civil Aviation Authority of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill is simple and technical and is based on the corresponding SYRIZA voted in 2016, as we have said repeatedly, but of course it has never been implemented. As has been pointed out before, at least, one would expect the Qualified Opposition to vote in favour of it in principle. It does not do so, and so our debate here is expanding and with the responsibility of counter-population it concerns the major, let me say, of our political life. Firstly, it concerns the political hypocrisy of some of the political forces, which others said before 2015, but others voted in 2016 and others are coming to support today, thinking they are addressing looters. However, hypocrisy, Mr President, is not the worst, but - and I will be very careful in my words - slimy, unworthy and disgraceful for our country of attitude to the same political forces who voted for a law under pressure - under the pressure of the troika - in 2016, while, at the same time, closing - according to the former Minister, now rapporteur of the SYRIZA - the eye to the trade unionists will not apply it, as they did not. This is the SYRIZA's political practice: I am voting for what they give me, to take the dose and then I am mocking, confirming the worst picture of our political system both within and in Brussels. There is also something else that this bill brings us to the fore and invites us to consider. Can the Greek political system alone move on to the necessary areas that will give development prospects to our country or operate only under the pressure of Europeans? The Minister told us - and rightly so - that the competent European authority has threatened us that if we do not separate the provider from the operator of the air services provided, it will reduce our airports, with what this means for our tourism industry. That forces us to act. It is, however, something we should want and do on our own. It goes without saying that the provider cannot be an auditor of himself without a risk for the quality of the services provided and the safety of flights, for which the representatives of SYRIZA are so cut. Now, why do people react? Here things are simple and obvious. It is the allowance, obviously, of EUROCONTROL. Isn't that right? After all, it is well known that air transport in our home country because of its nature - that is, we have expensive machinery, airplanes, at high operating costs, which can be stopped and immobilised by the strike of minimum techniques - more than any other sector of the economy were brutally affected by the wider pathogens of post-population, the extreme, self-evident, anti-social union of the'retire' and partisanism. There was a classic example of "OLYMPIAKI", the worst, perhaps, of post-multipleism, which had become a machine for producing deficits, strikes and unreliability that were directly against tourism and our economy. Some in opposition are still insisting on defending the eagle of "OLYMPIAKIS". The effort would be comical if it did not remind us again of what the forces they fought - and from the opposition - with nails and teeth for bankruptcy not only "OLYMPIAKIS", but overall the Greek state and they succeeded. The result of this situation in Greek air transport - let us not forget! - until 2008, 2009, it was that while neighbouring Turkey transformed Istanbul into an international hub and TURKISH into a global aviation leader, Greece was sinking into depreciation and debts. Until again, not the needs of reality, but the European Union has forced us to change our course, because it has illegally decided on the ongoing state aid to OLYMPIAKI. From the tragedy of "OLYMPIAKIS", which cost the Greek people billions and beyond the material had intangible costs, indirect costs in the credibility of the Greek tourist product, a success was born, the success of "AEGEAN" and the other Greek private and competitive companies that today dominate and which offer not only the economy but also the public fund. And here lies the next acidification of counterpopulation. While they were happy to throw away the billions of Greek people to "OLYMPIAKI" in the past, they do not want the support of our current national air carrier, even though AEGEAN itself participates in it, contrary to what is happening in Europe - as the Minister explained - and while the state support we give is sub-fold what is happening elsewhere. It would touch one billion if we did what Germany does with LUFTHANSA, Portugal and the other European countries. And the public can even earn money, turning the support into shares in the future if it considers it appropriate and interesting. In short, this draft law once again reveals the hypocrisy and enthusiasm of some in opposition. Are we ready to implement what we are voting on? Can we be in favour of the public interest without external pressure? Now that we have a broader proposal for the reform of the Pissaridis Committee, will we start the well-known stone war so that no bad text can be changed, or will we actually discuss with proposals? Finally, our inability to discuss real rather than virtual data and ghosts is revealed. Why would seventy and four hundred seven hundred and seventy employees, and why not seven hundred or seven hundred seventy seventy seventeen, would one say, a public water-head that suits rather than serves? In times when everything is done electronically, we insist on living by non-living life, as everyone knows it is happening today at the small provincial airports, so that we do not fool ourselves. There has been a lot of talk about the regional airports, which are all in opposition, and they have fought for the greatest foreign investment in our country, the 'FRAFORT', which is about their rapid, radical, unprecedented upgrades. And whoever has been to my home country, Mr President, as you said, Thessaloniki, knows it and sees it. In short, ladies and gentlemen, and I shall end - and I can only congratulate the Minister for the courage, determination, but also his persistence after four meetings - genuinely 'violent patience' - following what we have heard and heard in the committee responsible. Reactions show that he's on the right track on the absolutely right path and confirm the tradition of radical reform, which became known to his famous uncle. Well done, Minister, and keep going. We, the New Democracy Parliamentary Group of the Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, are here to support you in the interests of the Greek people and not the few. Go ahead and we also vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Catherides. Thessalonikios, elected in Athens. I will now give the floor to Mr Andreas Loverdos, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, in carrying out my duties as a parliamentary representative, I will insist on an issue that we discussed this morning at the initiative of Mr Spirtzi and Mr Voutsis. Because while listening to what is said in this Chamber and noticing political and trade union activities outside of Athens, I am really doubtful to see what we are talking about. I don't want to make mistakes using this Step, to lose the seriousness I'm trying to get. But they are created through the discussions in Parliament sometimes, fortunately not always, doubts about what we are discussing and what the legal basis and the foundation of our demands for or against a government energy is. I was here in this Chamber when the legislative act of 20 March 2020, mentioned by Mr Athanasios, President-in-Office, was ratified this morning. I was here. I heard him. He said I was right about the mergers today. The decision of the Chief of Police on restrictions, which was of four days duration, does not apply, but the general regulation of the act of law on the basis of which the police are doing what they do. I said this morning I'm not a clipboard. I don't have the legislation in front of me. I looked for her and found her. That's a hell of a lot of easy stuff. First of all, I confirm that the act of the Chief of Police with which they were banned during the Polytechnic anniversary was of four days' duration. That's right. I overturned, following the position of the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, the law and the position of the President of the Parliament, in practice the legislative content which was actually ratified during the summer by legislation in the framework of the Constitution on the need for ratification by law of acts of legislative content. I was here as a parliamentary representative. Yes, sir. Articles 68(2) and 3 do not provide for specific rules on prohibitions but are laid down in the framework of a restriction of fundamental rights in the face of the pandemic to be adopted by the Chief of Police. The question which arises and which the Government must answer is whether any other general decision or decision by the Chief of Police imposing a ban on concentrations of more than nine persons is currently in force. We don't have a cuff to know. So be careful. The concentrations above this limit are illegal. Otherwise, they're outlaws. This morning I saw two gatherings with more than nine people. What's going on? If there is no regulation, there is a debate in the House and there are poorly invoked by majority colleagues that there are regulations imposing measures and limits on individuals to the concentration. I'm not saying they're laughing, but I'm saying they're slipping into a mistake. There is either such a regulation and colleagues are right, but it does not apply. Whatever side you're approaching, you're approaching ridiculousness. Approaching ridiculousness, do you wonder "on the basis of ridiculousness is arrests being made? Are these conflicts caused by ridiculousness in the House?" I look at them with understanding when it comes to conflicts between the New Democracy and SYRIZA. Because I have lived through the periods of the acne of Greece in this Chamber, I also see a feeling of feathering in the exchange of reproach and arguments. I've got a sensation of feathers. We are not, ladies and gentlemen, in March or April 2020 with the summer ahead. We're entering winter. We're in. For more than three months, we will live with this curse, with this pandemic trying to find raisins. It cannot continue this game because I judge it - and I repeat it - a game of ridiculousness. We need to know what is in place and if that is the case. If there is nothing in this regard, but there are only possible arrangements, such as this four-day period, for everyone to know in this Chamber, but also for the trade unions what exactly they have as room for action and what they do not have. Democracies are democracies, because they are based on the rule of law. Where there is no rule of law, there are no democracies, only in fact. Forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, this position, but because this morning there were one and two rounds of discussions here and because I think that they will be repeated, it would be good to be very specific when we speak. Above all, the current regulations for spaces in this difficult phase that the country and the people themselves are going through are specific. They have requests and claims. And these can't be thrown into the disposable basket. As far as the draft law is concerned, Minister and Minister, when I hear from the opposition to the governments concerned, a criticism based on 'you do not have a more general plan, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are bringing in fragmentary arrangements, and in this regard we are conducting alpha, beta or gamma criticism, I am immediately making two remarks. I am thinking of the Member who draws up this speech, and I say 'if you were the Minister, I imagine you would have real universal and holistic arrangements to bring to Parliament. You are not, however, and unfortunately for Greece, these regulations do not come.' That's my first comment. The second thing that I am also automatically asking myself is whether my colleague is playing because he has nothing else to say, or whether he is right. I have avoided such criticism of a lack of planning over the years. I will inform you, Mr Karamanlis, that I will try to explain this kind of criticism even though I do not feel praiseworthy on the issues of your ministry. I've never handled them as a Minister or as a member of the Opposition. What would I like to know as a Member of the Opposition? I would like to know if the Minister brings a matter of regulation today regarding civil aviation, especially its issues, while it has a general framework of action, it has a strategy or a fragmentary suggestion to the National Representation. I would like to know how this Minister thinks about infrastructure. I have an image. Not exactly, but I have an image. I'd like to know this Minister what he's thinking about transport. Here I have a question I'm presenting to you. I hear the rental from the side of a bus's public transport structure costs us 1.53 euros per kilometre, for CBELs. At the same time, I am told that an OSCE vehicle in Athens costs us 2.9 euros per kilometre and a OSH vehicle in Thessaloniki costs 4 euros per kilometre. As a Greek citizen I am reluctant to see if the numbers are correct. If it's not, I'm looking forward to it. But if they're right, or if they're close to reality, I'm outraged. Does a New Democracy government tolerate this situation for transport? What's the status? Secondly, I am a citizen of the city of Athens. I am well acquainted with the city of Thessaloniki and very many cities in Greece, such as Patras, and almost all major cities in my country, I know them well. Is movement of people with disabilities easy? No, she's a pain in the ass. Sometimes, Minister, it's a nightmare. Have we seen any policies on this subject too? We didn't see. As far as transport is concerned, which is a crucial issue within the crisis, Mr Ministers, is one of the most important. The supply of food to consumers depends on transport. The problem with the checks, with the payments of transport companies, you have it in your mind, in your policies? The people who feed the country with each product are paid with checks, where the date of their repayment is rightly suspended. But the one who makes the market feed is not paid, while paying from fuel to anything else you want. If I knew how you were thinking about all this, if I knew what your reformist institutional plan was for such a country-critical, I would try to understand the weaknesses that Mr Gokas recorded with his speeches, which are very careful and serious, to forgive them, to think that we, too, more or less, and Mr Spirtz, have moved in a context not far away, which justifies very radical controversy between us and conflicts. I do not see, however, the first one, that is, I do not really see how you embrace all the responsibilities of Minister and State Secretary, and I therefore live in the individual criticism, because I find some serious things to her. Yes, we tell the independent authorities. We are not the first in Greece because the first authorities were introduced in 1989, but we are the ones who constitutionalised the independent authorities in 2000-2001. I was a special speaker in that revision of the Constitution with Vangelis Venizelos rapporteur of our party, and since then the independent authorities have had a constitutional arrangement for the five, the largest, the most serious of them. Then the phenomenon spread, took over too many resources, and this expansion in part is right with quasi-independent authorities not with fully independent authorities, but it is also a proof of central government bankruptcy. In other words, I cannot exercise one competence and transfer it, I do not have the guarantees of objectivity, and I am transferring responsibility. But the five basics and the other quasi-minor independent authorities must be independent. And I am very sorry about the way in which the administration is appointed. The Commission, four people, you are appointed, the Parliament's opinion to be in agreement. It seems not so independent. Therefore, even the quasi-independent authorities, the almost independent authorities must also enjoy a guarantee of objectivity and independence. If he appoints them, even indirectly, what are they independent? Don't tell me that this criticism has no legal basis. It has, and most importantly, a reasonable basis. How do you deal with this kind of criticism? I should like to close, Mr President, by putting our party's position in support of 'Aegean'. Mr. Gokas, Mr. Constantopoulos, Mr. Katrinis, told them. I don't want to repeat it. We are saying 'yes'. But when you bring the draft law, whether it comes to a draft law on the subject or to an act - I don't know if you have competence - we will ask for shares that will get the Greek public privileges, however. We are not saying to privatize 'Aegean', we do not have such an approach. We know very well what is happening in the air transport sector. We would never have that kind of approach. But the privileged shares are shares that ensure the public get its money back. They may not be involved in making decisions by voting, but they are guaranteed the public to get his money back. We want to see a very specific position on this since we are placed at the outset on such a serious issue. We stand positive. Mr. Gocas said it, I don't want to repeat it. But we also ask for guarantees on behalf of the Greek State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u209	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u210	The Minister has the floor for two minutes. I'm guessing an intervention you want to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u211	Yeah. I very much appreciate the comments I have heard from Mr Loverdos, and in order to have an open debate I have asked for the floor, Mr President. I only wanted to be placed at the end, and in the end I'm going to be placed. I am just going to make two - three small interventions, when I consider that it makes sense and substance. You spoke about a design deficit and wondered whether there was a design deficit or not. You mentioned two specific topics and told us that you read, and the details you have are correct, that in Athens the kilometre costs almost 3 euros, for the accuracy of 2.9, and in Thessaloniki it is 3.9 to 4 euros. In Athens, therefore, the cost of the CBELs is 1,41 and in Thessaloniki 1,43. And you wondered if that doesn't cause us a surprise, if you like. But, dear Mr. Loverdos, that's why we're doing this. Because at the moment, in the state of the bus fleet, when a bus has not been bought for ten years, when there has been no intake for ten years, we are doing something that is unprecedented for the Greek State: we are transporting transport work to a private provider, but respecting the public nature of the transport. And we're doing something else: We're renting used buses - leasing - up to a decade when the average age is more than seventeen until we make the market for the new buses, which are around a thousand loop buses, and, as you know, these procedures are an international competition and take a lot of time. So that is exactly what we are doing, because we consider a first step and do so in full cooperation, if you like, with the trade unions. Because we all understand that the situation today is what it is. You mentioned the movement of people with disabilities. I will fully agree with you. We are not at all satisfied with the situation of the oldest rolling stock of the OSCE, which in many cases does not serve people with disabilities. I inform you that the buses we take both at the CBEL and at the leasing are all accessible to people with disabilities. Will you tell me: Is that enough? I will tell you 'no'. An important step is therefore taking to modernise urban transport, which for many reasons has had many problems over the last decade. As far as the independent authorities are concerned - and I am closing down with this, Mr President - you are much more specific than I am and you know better than me that the independent authorities are an institutional counterweight to executive power. So you told us why the Council is being proposed by the Minister. First of all, I would like to inform you that the President of the Authority was made with transparent procedures by a five-member committee involving European institutions, and EASA and DG MOVE.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u212	You appoint...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u213	Yes, but it was done by a process, and previously the choice was made on the basis of the old law directly by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u214	When was that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u215	Mr. Spirtzi, I'm not interrupting you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u216	Mr. Spirtzi, he's right. Let him go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Spirtzi, now the nerve has limits. You've made a law that you've never implemented. You did it on the papers to make fun of the troika, take the dose and close the eye to the trade unions. We know what you've done. The stones in this Chamber now know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u218	He hasn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u219	Marbles, Mr. Pappa. You're absolutely right. So what we are saying is that the executive board is proposed by the Minister and then passed through the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. We are doing this at this stage and for speed reasons. I understand your concern. It is something we can see, but I think that once we have the approval of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency from this House, this creates, if you like, an insurance policy, because this Council is now being adopted by the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. I just wanted to say these few things to answer your questions, and I hope I covered you up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Minister. However, I don't know how the state of the buses in Thessaloniki is now, but as long as I lived there and every day I had to move, for the OSH drivers made an honest effort: they left the wheel, they went down, they went to the middle door, they opened the bar, and then the customer came in. Mr Spirjis has asked for the floor, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. Because I have informed Mrs Christidou, Mrs Christidou, we will go to Mr. Michaelides, Mr. Loading and then to you. Here, Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we will all agree that in times of crisis like the one we live, after nine years of Greek commemorative sacrifices, with current and very heavy losses from the health and economic crisis, we must all bend to the problems of our people and our country by making both our political positions and our management proposals. We must abandon communication tactics and outdated old-fashioned practices for inventing micro-party benefits. They are not needed either by the country or by the parties or by the political system, especially they do not need the Greek people. We can politically disagree and substantiate all our proposals sufficiently so that all the citizens who are watching us understand what the disagreements are and what the proposal of each place is. With regard to the debate that took place at the beginning of the sitting and after what he said, Mr. Loverdos, I would like to ask if the Government and the New Democracy are helping this logic. And I would like to ask, because they are getting to our ears that Security asks state television - and not just - unjustified footage from the Polytechnic Day. Answer us, Minister. Get in touch with Maximos, with the Ministry of Citizen Protection and answer us if Security asks for single and unscrupulous video footage, public or private. So this commonly accepted position - and I imagine, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy - on how to move all the days of the crisis has unfortunately not been implemented by the New Democracy as opposition and unfortunately, while today you are calling for opposition and you have it from the Opposition, by the overwhelming majority of Parliament's parties, the ministers of your government continue with the same tactic. But today you rule! When you govern, especially in a productive ministry, especially in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, the result rather than the communication tactic is the one that counts, the result that the world lives in, hundreds of professionals and companies, each citizen in his everyday life. It is not enough and there is no reason either to distort the positions of counterpopulation nor to lie or to be informed by party friends without checking what you are told and above all, without measuring your words. And I will mention a few examples. Why is the climate that you are asking for, when you lie and so great lies and so dangerous for the country? The PSC and PSC, the air transport sector, ladies and gentlemen, are one of the most important sectors for each country. Greece is even more important, because we are an island country, because we are a people living around the planet and because its operation touches and affects crucial issues, critical national issues. At some point, Minister, you must tell us how you proceeded, if you proceeded with the air transport agreements, the air traffic controllers, the FIR with Northern Macedonia, the agreements based on this 'progressive', as you said with your far-right partners, the Prespecies Agreement. Tell us what you've done. Are you moving on? You don't? Is this the country's interests? Doesn't it interest her? Why didn't you move on if you didn't? And I mention this, because the influence of the operation of the PSC and of the PSC on all national issues must be understood, not only in relation to Turkey, but also to our northern borders, with Cyprus, with the countries of the Middle East, Egypt - very important - but also Italy. Obviously, the custody of the New Democracy and the state of Mitsotakis, to accuse SYRIZA, has not let you deal with such matters. It is, however, crucial for the Greek Parliament to know that the Italian FAO and the team of partner countries had a specific plan, a specific strategy for the management of the Greek airspace before 2015. We found it in progress because of the problems that existed. And we hope you won't let it come back with legislation like today's plan again. Mr. Minister, Mr. Karamanlis, I am not saying to you "friend Costa" to keep the guys in the Chamber, but I will speak to you friendly but also hard. It is really regrettable that the Greek Minister for Transport has said this - and I shall read from the committee's improper minutes on 24-11 - which I shall be tabling. I've got a paw here that I'll give you at the end. And I will finally ask the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group not to put me back into a bill by Mr Karamanlis. I'm gonna eat all my wages on photocopies to testify. So I read from the committee's unreasonable minutes on 24-11: 'Second, we are improving the issue of safety. I would remind you and repeat that one of the reasons why EASA wanted to demolish Greece was security issues, because it had not been separated.’ You say it elsewhere. You have also told the Members of the New Democracy who call it in. You're lying, Mr. Karamanlis. I challenge you to present to the House a letter from EASA, until July 2019, which raises a question of the security of Greek airports and the operation of the PSC. Mia! You've confused them, I hope not intentionally. It is also the concession of the fourteen airports and many years before the concession of the "Eleftherios Venizelos" with the participation of the Greek State and the separation of the PD. Where'd you come from, that if all the NDP airports had remained in public at the U.S., it wasn't supposed to be segregation? So, the same service that operated the airports, even if they were all state-owned, she had to supervise if she was doing her job properly? Who told you this? Your resignation has done these for decades and tyrants the country in many areas. You also deposited documents. Nowhere does it say in the documents you have submitted - and that is why I have asked you, Mr President, to send them, particularly to the Members of the New Democracy - for the safety or degradation of the Greek airports, but for a conflict of interest that obviously exists. When a provider has such responsibilities, he speaks of the certification. And the worst in relation to what you have submitted, it is this, Mr Karamanlis, that the documents you have lodged are accompanying a confidential letter sent to you by the Director-General of the HR and I invite you to submit it to Parliament now! Because you're trying to cover up your responsibilities, which you haven't done a year and a half for the activation of the law, and you're coming here and you're leaving us already. And it's not just the confidential letter. I will also present to you a few pages from the SAC's letter on August 1st.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u222	Everything?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u223	I'll testify everything. There are two hundred seventy-seven pages, ladies and gentlemen. He says in his letter to Mr Karamanlis that there remains a ministerial decision to fully implement the law. The one ministerial decision is to place in specific organic positions of the officials who had already entered the PD and the PD with all the tables up to photographs from the offices of PDU. Why didn't we sign this joint ministerial decision? Because if we signed it, ladies and gentlemen, in the European elections or in the national elections, it would be a mess from the New Democracy that we are making rugs and posts where we want to be. We therefore had the democratic sensitivity to this decision to go after the elections. You abdicate us because in October 2016 a law was passed that we put a lot of effort and negotiation with the institutions and with the European Commission to prevent the Civil Aviation Service from being privatised. In the debate of the bill in 2016 Mr Karamanlis himself admits it. I'm going to testify this for the Minutes, too. And you come and tell us what? That we are late to make eighteen - nineteen months of two presidential decrees so specifically when the average issue of a presidential decree is at least fifteen months? I imagine, Mr Karamanlis, except for suspending the presidential decrees that we have taken a while to take out. You've been in government for 15 months already. You haven't got anyone out. Let's go, but below. What's the worst, Mr. Karamanlis? It's not that you're lying about the safety of the Greek airports. It is that you have no conscience about the evil you can do in the country, when as Minister of Transport you say that the reason EASA was to downgrade the Greek airports was security issues. I would ask you to learn from whom this wording can be used - which many Members of the New Democracy have said today - and what consequences it may have and correct it in the Minutes. I said and stated that there was never a matter of security for the Greek airports and the operation of the PSC not only for the period 2015-2019, but never. You must therefore measure your words when you are serving in such positions, at least in such matters. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ask Mrs Kefaliannis who is watching as Minister of Tourism what consequences she may have. Ask Mr. Stamatis what consequences he may have. You know, it's very easy for someone to do irreparable damage. We do not, however, put national interests above party interests, and I will prove that to you next. The PSC and the PSC, Mr. Karamanlis, did not take place in SYRIZA. The issue of separation did not arise in 2015. You should have done it for so many decades that you ruled the country. I read again from the Minutes on 23 November. Georgios Dricsakos - you put him in the PSC: "I will start with a reference to the national air navigation supervisory authority which is a preamble to the AAS. Initially, the national supervisory authority is incorporated into the national framework by the 2006 law and then by two presiding decrees, which clarify the operational independence of the authority by the provider. Two laws were followed in 2011 and 2013.’ Mr. Dritsaku's wording is very elegant. Did you see? But instead of making the separation in 2006 in 2011 or 2013, you anticipated an address within the PSC rather than separation. So since you did the separation, as you say, with the establishment of the Air Navigation Directorate, and it was all good, how did EASA come and said "we will degrade"? There's one of the two. Either you maintained an old-fashioned group of other kinds and lied or lie today. Mr Karamanlis, you yourself at L.4427 in October 2016 - it is not enough to hide your responsibilities for 15 months - and I am rereading them again from the Minutes and I will table them, which are not corrected, like the previous committees, you say: 'Let's start over. Is it necessary to set up an entire independent administrative authority, exclusively in charge of this matter? The answer is, I guess not. Is there any other model in Europe? The answer is again, no. Is it, as the Minister has told us, an obligation on the Greek side stemming from the concession agreement for the fourteen airports? This time the answer is, no.’ You were talking about it. It's, no, and leave it 'address'. The establishment of the independent authority, a solution which I repeat, is not a requirement of 'FRAPORT' - what you were saying - nor was there a prerequisite for the convention signed by the New Democracy. You were talking about it. Read the Minutes. I'll testify. Today you have been in favour of segregation, and you have not done anything for fifteen months. And to see how conflicting you are and how much lies you are talking about with the draft law you are going to vote on today, we asked you about the reduction of the APA structure that you predicted to put APA engineers, the technical service and you replied - I read again from the unreasonable Practices I will table to you - "Some things have been heard that we are abolishing the Technical Services Directorate. The regulatory powers of this department remain, Mrs Perka, in the PSC.’ Mr Karamanlis, from a deep ignorance - I do not want to say that - those who drafted the draft law, listen to what you responded to the substance: 'The licensing of airports will be done by the provider of the airports called the OSH. The projects of 'FRAPORT', let's say, will be licensed by the PSC, not by the PSC. The other provider, the competitor. For the approval of the regional airports master plan, it will be made by an aerodrome manager, called the FAO. The approval, licensing of the projects for the development of 'FRAPORT', 'Eleftherios Venizelos', of Kastelion, will be carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Competitiveness. The urban office will be managed by an aerodrome manager, the PSC and the archives of the concessiond airports will be managed by a competitor.’ How, then, will a provider - in this case, the OSH - have licensing powers for other competitors, since you are defenders of separation? Unless it is a matter of ignorance, but it is appropriate that the responsibilities even the licensing of airports go to private individuals or go to private providers. If that is your policy, say it clearly. If it's not, fix it. And you told us...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u224	And finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u225	What can I conclude, Mr President? Here I have an encyclopedia to testify with the lies they've told.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u226	There are regulations. Unless you want to use your dentistry. Should I put another six minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u227	I'm going to say two more things and leave the rest for my second-guess. I'll say the most important ones. When we found the contract, we made three changes to the contract we found. The institutions have not left us any more. One was for the certification that the country had to pay 650 million. The second was for the workers. And we're asking. In relation to the most important issue, that of the abolition of aviation authorities, all of the wings said what it means, what a mess it will be. But I want you to tell me something. What are you going to do to these people? We'll say some numbers. I'll testify for you a painting. Thessaloniki is ninety employees. Listen, Mr. Loverdo. Heraklion sixty-nine. Rhodes forty. The New Democracy MPs are coming out and they say don't worry. You're removing them. Don't worry about what? Or are you going to follow the Hatzidakis model again? What is the model Hatzidakis when he sold "OLYMPIAKI": Loaded pilots that Vgenopoulos didn't want in the FAO. They didn't do anything all these decades. Fifteen of them found themselves working on foreign airlines - your achievements, Mr Karamanlis - and at the same time getting the PSC salary. And you're talking? You want to charge them to SYRIZA. You didn't say it was SYRIZA's fault for "OLYMPIAKI"!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u228	You promised you'd complete it. So please complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u229	I'm finishing up and I'm going to say the rest about the set-up contests in my head-on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u230	What kind of dentology, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u231	I'm going to say a few dangerous words, Mr. Karamanlis, because we can all be just as you were or as you are today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u232	With soul pain.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u233	With soul pain, that's right. Then you fooled that. I read again from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Spirtzi, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u235	I shall conclude, Mr President, by end. It's from the Minutes. Half of what I'm saying is what Mr. Karamanlis says from the Minutes. I'm advertising him on what he says. So I read: the question that arises concerns where the money of EUROCONTROL is going. That is what you said as opposition. You want to talk about this now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u236	Talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u237	Do you want to talk about 'AIOL', do you want to talk about the bond, about the wastefulness, about DG COMM and much more? Listen, we don't open up such issues, because we're not like you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u238	Close now, Mr. Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u239	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u240	Mr President, it is a report on 'FRAPORT'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u241	Yeah, yeah, yeah! We will not celebrate, but neither will we support privatisation from the window, the incompatibility of airlines nor the incompatibility of airport providers. And I hope we disprove. The rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u242	You didn't leave anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u243	Slow down, Mr. Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u244	Have you also become President of the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u245	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u246	Mr Karamanlis has also become President of the House! The arrogance of the government goes a long way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u247	Please, no dialogue. Mr. Bukouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u248	I'll speak from my place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u249	Are you going to make your speech or intervention? If you speak of your position, with your mask, please. Otherwise, come to the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u250	Mr President, first of all, thank you. Secondly, does it make any sense to tell you whether it is my main intervention or is it my secondary intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u251	Whatever you want. For the time being, I ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u252	Mr Spirtzis spoke for twenty minutes and calls for a second, that is half an hour. If each parliamentary representative speaks half an hour...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u253	I didn't tell you I'd give it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u254	Times are known. It is 12 minutes, as a whole, for the parliamentary representatives to have time. As a whole, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u255	No, no. It's 12, six and three minutes. I'll give you 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u256	In that sense, how is there a dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u257	...for a day's conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u258	I have no objection to talking all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u259	What can we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u260	Mr. Loverdos is right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u261	I have no objection to talking constantly and to open up all aspects of policy and to say everything and to find reports for opposition and to evolving in Parliament a confrontation, which - if you like - is not either in the spirit or in the contents of the bill. I am pleased at the fact that we all agree on separation - regardless of the points made in time, if the previous one were better, because it has not happened in the past few decades - that there must be separation in this critical sector, crucial for development, crucial for transport, crucial for tourism and so on, to leave the commonwealths. Of course, Mr. Parliamentary spokesman of the SYRIZA, who undoubtedly knows these things well, said do not mention the deterioration of your airports unless the separation is voted on, and he mentioned ten times when he was placed in a deterioration. It is clear - if we agree on separation, the content will be seen - that if this bill is not passed by the end of 2020 - because you are calling on us to withdraw it, see it again, bring it back and so on - there will be consequences. What kind of consequences will, unfortunately, be? It is not our responsibility. And the notion is. You all understand what we mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u262	A ministerial decision before...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u263	Mr. Spirtzi, don't interrupt him. He didn't interrupt you at all. He was listening to you for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u264	Now, on the substance, you are starting at a false starting point and of course you are reaching wrong conclusions. You are deliberately confusing between an institution that is supervisory, coordination and ultimately auditing and an institution that is a provider. They are two different institutions and the AAA in the hard public sector and the AAA is a legal person governed by public law. I mean, is there a risk that it will be privatised, ladies and gentlemen - why do I never want to speak personally - the Athens Academy, which is a legal person governed by public law? From where do you come to the wrong conclusion that it is easy and easy to privatise and that the conversion of a public service into a legal person governed by public law facilitates its privatisation? This is your assessment, as it is estimated that there will be no safety, as it is estimated that complaints will not be checked, as it is estimated that air services will not be provided. I would also like to say that from the FAO there is nothing to remove any competence and you say'remove the airlines from the regional airports', for which, once again, I say that four and a half years you have done nothing about the outside FAFORT twenty-three airports. You say that the air authorities are being abolished. Would it be more appropriate to say ‘not put a step of AMP at each airport and on every water route?’ That we could discuss. But to say "remove the air control authorities" in the vote on the draft law that provides for a specific establishment plan and has a specific philosophy, forgive me, but does not stand. Let's go later, then. You are deliberately confusing between the supervisory, coordination and auditing body which is the APA with the service provider, again a public service, a legal person governed by public law, such as the APA. The roles are different. So you're telling us about the number of workers. I will not go into the question of where officials will go and how they will be put because, Mr Spirtzi, at least you know - because you have brought so many bills - that there is secondary legislation, which many of these things you are now pointing out and underline can also be regulated under secondary legislation. But we will stand on the main pillars of the bill. And you say: 'Why do you put two hundred executives in the AMP and not put five hundred?' Providers are employed - and, above all, I am going to talk about the public airline service, the PSC - about two thousand, two thousand two hundred. You say we put five hundred in the audit body. In other words, an auditor - assuming that everyone exercises a role of supervisory, coordination and auditing - will control four employees. We tell you that the proportion of two hundred executives to control two thousand workers if they properly provide the services is a proper ratio. And at this point I could invoke other competent supervisory and audit authorities, for example the Telecommunications and Post Authority, which is formerly the responsibility of the same Ministry, now no longer. Is the Telecommunications and Post Authority all over the place? Doesn't he control the post office? Doesn't he control private courier companies? Does he not check whether hundreds of electronic media are interfering? Doesn't he have that responsibility? Does it not do its purpose?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u265	It's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u266	Listen, Mr Pappa, with all due respect, I would like to tell you that the supervisory and control authorities do not control every day, it is not possible for them to control the bodies controlled every day. What do I mean? For example, EFET, which has four to five steps in Greece, how does it work? Either by periodic checks or by complaints. What does it mean? That the FVO controls every day all processing plants and all food production units? Should the supervisory, audit body not have a role of precisely supervisory and auditing and coordination? Isn't that exactly what the bill does? I listen with interest to all assessments, but I do not accept your unnegotiable truth, that what you say is true and that your assessments will be confirmed. Time will show whose estimates will be confirmed. And anyway, let's say something else. A lot of tears and pitifulness about what the role of 'FRAPORT' will be. Are we really saying that, ladies and gentlemen of the Police? Who signed the final signature for the concession of the fourteen ‘FRAPORT’ airports?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u267	Signature Spirtzi!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u268	And therefore the operating framework for which you are currently coming and complaining? And if you signed it...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u269	No, no, no. Vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u270	I'm sorry, what happened, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u271	A colleague wanted to interrupt you, and I won't let him go. Keep going!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u272	No, it's not a matter of interruption, these are estimates of mine and of my resignation. I am not claiming the one and only truth, as is the case with Officerial Response colleagues. I am saying our assessment, our political position. And we're not sure, making a law that everything will work a clock. That is why I told you that there is secondary legislation on individual issues, a series of which you have raised in your positions. The second thing I want to tell you about 'FRAPORT' is that while you have signed the operating framework, you come and say today that 'FRAPORT' is the modern 'Pacman' of airports and it eats it all and it gets it all. And I think I am entitled to ask you as a former member of the opposition and now a government MP, all right with soul pain in 2015, what efforts to improve the operating framework have you been doing for the remaining four and a half years? It is not a bit hypocritical to come to you today, when your people have stood in the place of Antipopulation and say, "Oh, what about "FRAPORT"? I will ask you as a government MP today what you have done, since with pain of soul you signed the concession to 'FRAPORT', for the remaining twenty-three airports that were not granted to 'FRAPORT' and cover all of Greece?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u273	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u274	Mr. Spirtzi, I repeat for the second time that I do not speak personally, I speak politically.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u275	But you're asking me!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u276	Yeah, I'm saying what you did. As a result, we see that you have done absolutely nothing, because it is their working framework and the same size of problems you have inherited us at these specific twenty-three airports. As a result you may have intended to do, but in politics everything is judged by the result. We can all here today make our assessments, make our approaches, say our political views and develop our policies, but our hardest judge is the very result of our policies. In any case, it is also an easy task for the current Minister - if I may say so - in the sense that he is not judged on what he is doing, but is judged on what he is. The story has said so, moreover, that the National Lord Karamanlis, who has achieved the greatest growth for the longest time in this country, achieved convergence at 62% in 1980 with the rest of the European Union, i.e. strengthening the economy, was accused of socialism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u277	From us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u278	It is charged by you and by officials who have come to your party. The former Prime Minister, Costas Karamanlis, was accused of state control, the Prime Minister who made the biggest privatisations in the country's history. I remind you of OTE, 'OLYMPIAKI', 'COSCO', natural gas networks, privatisations that have never been made. You were accusing him of being a prisoner. Today's Minister is accused of neoliberalism. I'll remind you of something left, Mao Chetung: "White cats, black cats, we don't care about their color if they catch mice. That's what we're interested in if they catch mice." And this bill will be judged in its implementation. I think that it is not the air and air services issues, which touch the development of the place in too many areas, a field for barren controversy. Field for fertile criticism, for corrective proposals, for improvements is always there. Proposals which are documented and submitted in time and not just for the sake of political impressive and micro-party benefits from this government are adopted. By saying that you're doing everything wrong and we're doing it all right, without having some results for the subject we're discussing, we realize that the discourse is becoming very persuasive. Of course, its role is to criticise and sometimes hard to criticise, because this thing, this is a process that improves the production of government work. There is no doubt about that. We are the last of us in the New Democracy to say that there should be no criticism. However, this criticism must have a useful effect, a benefit, in that it improves the legislative work produced for the benefit of the Greek people in the end, which is the user of all these legislations produced in Parliament. I could go on for a long time too, but it would be unreliable to criticise the time given to the Parliamentary Representative of the Vice-President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u279	Thank you very much, Mr Buquoir.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u280	That is why I should like to conclude here and ask you to vote for the bill, since we agree on its basics, which is the separation, which is the organization of a new model, so that the country can offer modern air services and, above all, experts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u281	Thank you too, Mr Buquoir. Let's go back to the list, and I'll give the floor to Mr. Andreas Michaelides, Hiotis, by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the coup d'état today introduces a debate and a vote in the House, a quarantine and a pandemic wave, another bill which, of course, does not regulate urgent and urgently necessary issues. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] Beyond the untimely, though completely convenient - I would say - for the government and the Ministry at a time, the bill under discussion, I think we could call it a false draft, since it is not, in fact, a recommendation from the Civil Aviation Authority, but a reorganisation and amendment of Law 4427/2016, which was adopted by the previous administration. I am now going to the contents of the bill. One cannot point out the fact that this has met the universal rejection by workers' representatives, as we noted at the hearing of the bodies, while at the same time having been welcomed by private operators, I have, of course, pre-existing the 'FRAPORT'. This contrast shows eloquently - I think - the basic objectives and the central political character of the bill, which is fully compatible with a series of neoliberal ideas of the New Democracy Government. The very conversion of the Civil Aviation Service from a public service to a legal person governed by public law is an example of this nature of the draft law. It has been pointed out to you in many respects during the debate on the bill that this change raises well-founded suspicions of privatization - even in part - and I think that you have not justified this choice sufficiently, nor have you made a firm response to these concerns. Let me focus on forecasts of the bill dealing with APA and above, with the apparent unfavourable effects on the islands and, above all, on the small islands of the country. The main provision of the bill is the abolition of the regional services of the sections of APA from the country's airports and the dramatic decline in its staff by approximately 2/3. An Athenocentric is being created in the literal service, which undertakes to carry out controls throughout the country. It is about depositing the government's plan for a state of staff, as you see it, which unnecessarily concentrates and at the same time shrinks public services. The abolition of the permanent presence of airports and public authorities by airports is generally problematic, as it marks the weakening of public control in a number of procedures and activities at airports, from compliance with safety rules by applying the health regulations as the supervision of the various private operators operating at airports. In addition, the reduction of AMP staff from four hundred eighty-seven to seventy-two, of which only ninety will be inspectors, exponentially extends the transition from a decentralised to an allegedly flexible structure. This number of officials is, in any case, small on the basis of data from other European countries, as has been pointed out by the opposition during the debate in the committee. In fact, the responsibilities of the AMP in general and of the inspectors in particular, as recorded in Articles 7 and 26 respectively, are several and serious. Is it based on what planning has it been considered that these can be exercised effectively and effectively with such limited personnel? One is to conclude that this weak, types of public control are, in the end, the ultimate aim of the government. The consequences of these choices on the structure and nature of the APA will be not only the quantitative but also the qualitative weakening of public control over the whole range of air transport. Obviously the government expects the necessary supervision and regulation to take place through the invisible hand of the market. The consequences, too, were dehistoric about the meaning, but also about the essential nature of the island. One really wonders how the government does not take into account the multi-Island character of the country, the specificities and the increased needs of the islands and helical sites, but also the border and very sensitive, I would say, of the nature of our islands. In addition, the abolition of the regional sections of APA is another step towards deforestation of public services on the islands and of practical abandonment. This misrecognition of the dimension, but also of the islands, is seen by the absence of a substantial assessment of the impact of the draft law on our island regions. I am afraid, therefore, that the telegraphic forecasts in the accompanying report suggest that, in terms of islandity, the bill will bring about improvement and greater efficiency of the services provided are years of light from reality. For all these reasons, we are obviously voting against this bill. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u283	Thank you very much, Mr Michaelides. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to monitor the timer from your computer because you cannot hear the warning bell ending your speaking time. There is now a reason for Mr Philippos Loading from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u284	Thank you very much, Madam President. I cannot comment on all the things that we have heard at the beginning of the sitting both within the Chamber and all that has been done outside the Chamber. Nor can I comment on what I have heard from both the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative and other speakers in both the Commission and plenary. So I was expecting colleagues from the Vice-President to come to us in the sense of responsibility, given that this bill is in this direction, in the logic of responsibility. But, ladies and gentlemen, at this point the enemy is common and is called a 'koroni'. Many of our fellow citizens, as he well wrote some days ago in "KATHMERINI" Nikos Vatopoulos, are faced with accumulated pressures in the shadow of a protracted uncertainty and are locked in an unwanted immorality. So let us stop, ladies and gentlemen, poisoning the atmosphere and you also offer something to the country's overall effort to go through with the fewest possible losses. I would, of course, like to remind the Parliamentary Representative of the Officership that we put bets on ourselves, but also on society and we will succeed and achieve them, as we bring drafts that we are implementing and not waterways bills at Law 4568/2018, as Mr Spirtz will remember very well, but also as the current legislative framework for the PSC and APA, which was inapplicable. After all, to all of you who are playing revolutionaries and you are thinking about human rights and you say that you are companions, I would like to remind you of a few words by Bobby Kennedy: "The responsibility of our time is nothing less than a revolution, a revolution that would be peaceful if we were wise enough, human beings if we were concerned enough and successful if we were lucky enough." So this bill is also in the direction of responsibility, and it is also a form of revolution in its area. The aim of this bill is now to create a flexible, efficient, but also an independent body, i.e. the APA, which has a regulator role. At the same time, however, the entire administrative and financial autonomy of the PSC is achieved. The PSC will thus have financial and administrative autonomy, while for the first time it will be able to deposit balance sheets and have an independent accounting system. All this is of particular importance since the PSC manages a lot of money. The vote on this draft law, which leads to the establishment of the AMP as a supervisory body, is therefore our obligation towards the institutions - which the major anti-population gentlemen remember very well - which we must observe in order to avoid the deterioration of our airports. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of this bill is to establish a flexible, but also an operational instrument and not to create tens of jobs for the purpose of appointments, but also various micro-political games. The country must finally move away from this logic, from the culture of appointments without serious criteria for the delight of the 'days' and be guided by the logic of atrocities. Of course, this bill is just moving on this road, if one considers the qualifications that are defined for people who will serve both the addresses and the secretaries, but also the sections of the APA, who are moving towards the logic of the worthwhile recruitment of people who will be chosen in their own directions, their pre-services and their studies and knowledge. As far as the commander of PPC was concerned, as much has been said, as in other bills, such as PPC's which had come last year, again for the same situation, his qualifications are well-defined and specific, with a view to the prestigious appointment, which you obviously do not know. They arise from his studies and from his work experience, which will prevent appointments based on photographic qualifications, which you obviously know best, as was the case with the previous SYRIZA law. So you are wrong to insist on the narrative of supposedly nominations of friends to the post of the commander of the APM, and once that bill has at least two articles that analyse and the qualifications that one must have to have to take over the position of commander. So, do not confuse yourself with the days of your own government, ladies and gentlemen of the Major Opposition. If you read with great attention this bill, you will see that when it is converted into a legal person governed by public law, i.e. ΔΝΠ, it will become a universal successor to both rights and obligations, both of the Greek public and of the employees of the service. This means that none of the workers are in danger of losing their jobs. The role of the PSC will remain the same, as it is today. Before I close my position, I would like to draw attention to a number of key issues concerning my prefecture, the Cyclades Prefecture, but also the island regions in general, especially the remote and island units which, during the summer months in particular, receive the largest volume of visitors to their airports and also to the heliports, which necessitates support from the Ministry, state and government, but also the control and safety of airports and heliports. In any case, this draft law as a whole is excellent, fully in line with European standards, but also European and international conventions and of course guarantees dignity and transparency in the field of civil aviation in our country. The requirements in this area at the main entrance gate of our country are great, and with this draft law we are standing at the level of circumstances with responsibility, but also with efficiency, guaranteeing the proper functioning of the system and dealing with any difficult situations. For all these reasons, Madam President, as I have explained in my speech, I am voting in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, too. Now Mrs Christidou has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u286	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am obliged today to refer to the unacceptable production and arrest of the members of the feminist organisations who raised the issue of violence against women, of course respecting all safety measures. On the pretext of the health interest, articles of the Constitution are being suppressed and civil rights violated. So the House cannot remain unfaithful and not condemn, and on the contrary agrees with such practices. The government's efforts to establish a conditional democracy will not be accepted. Inhibit the concentration of fifteen women with distances, when you have been stacking people in public transport, it is outrageously hypocritical. So, very quickly, I want to go through the bill we are discussing today. As the Panhellenic Airport Association of the Civil Protection Service denounces, none of the proposals made by the airports were taken into account. With this draft law, the Government of New Democracy, instead of an independent regulatory and supervisory authority, opts for a centralised model with just a hundred and seventy-two employees, who should supervise without self-protected continuous presence of forty-one airports, seventy-two helical airports, forty-one empty landing areas and three licensed water centres, the number of which is expected to increase in the next five years. Of course, as you can see, it is impossible to have twenty-four hours in all of this from just a hundred and seventy-two people over the two hundred and eighty-four already distributed with a published ministerial decision to the new authority. Of course it is impossible for all of Greece to be supervised by computers in Athens, and that can be understood by anyone. Considering that their duties outside flight oversight include the monitoring and licensing of airlines, aviation schools, service companies, airport managers, air navigation service providers, etc., it is even more understood that New Democracy does not care about any real supervisory work at all. And on this point we ask you: Who is served by this essentially abolition of supervisory authorities? Who does the undermining of the smooth operation of airports benefit? Why is the safety of flights and passengers compromised? This regulation, ladies and gentlemen, only works in the interests of the private interests that they want to operate out of control at the airports in the country. The consequences of the case-law, which is being attempted, can prove tragic and are in direct contrast to the public interest. The infringements of European regulations, the legitimacy of airports, environmental and health provisions will no longer be able to be controlled. Passenger rights and in general consumer protection in this draft law remain completely defenceless. The control over the implementation of the contractual obligations of the operator of the fourteen regional airports is understood to be impossible. And because we have heard about the countries of the European Union, I would say that, for example, France, Italy and many others, who do not have the island status of Greece, have established regional supervisory units of the respective services within airports. In our country, the Minister for Transport, indifferent to the European acquis, chooses differently by serving his political friends, putting passengers and crew at risk. The Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. For this purpose, they even granted free of charge and were charged with operating expenses. With the governmental gift you are bringing to the House, however, the check will be carried out once every two, three or four years, visits and inspections for which the inspectors will already be aware and will obviously respect the lawfulness during the course of the inspection. It makes sense. But will this really be the case and the rest of the time or the arbitraryness of the companies become uncontrolled? In a possible state of emergency, there will be no state presence on the ground. Even for the simplest incidents the passenger should address Athens to claim his rights. In cases of refusal to board - to listen to people -, in cases of long delays, to cancellations, to phenomena of refusal to assist carriers for damage, losses, theft of luggage - all of us have done this - for damage due to delays in flights, accidents at the airport with injuries - not to say anything else - the supervision that everything is done as it is necessary to protect passengers in practice will become impossible. Furthermore, no one will control the companies whether to declare the actual number of passengers or not, as they know they will not be located. No one will be able to control airports if they declare the actual tone of aircraft for example. In addition to the loss of security, this draft law will result in serious economic losses for the public fund and, of course, in the bill, we have all the other features of the right, the neo-democratic legislature. What are these? The appointments of the Executive Director and members of the Executive Board shall be without AEP procedure so that the Minister may appoint ‘locals’. The Executive Board shall not, of course, be provided with a representative of the employees to ensure a minimum of social accountability. The disciplinary and service councils of the new structure do not fall within the Public Service Code with what this implies for their own operation. The government's allergy to anything that brings democratization and transparency to the functioning of public administration once again is evident. The fact that we are voting against this bill, ladies and gentlemen, as much as you have tried to convince us, is obvious. That the articles of the draft law endanger people who will travel from the country's airports and that airlines become uncontrolled, that is the big problem. So you are once again using your parliamentary majority at the expense of security. We hope that we do not have to ask you to apologise for your responsibilities in the future for the mistakes you have been committing here and today, because we have been doing this for so many months. Since March - April, since the outbreak of the first wave of pandemic, we have warned you about everything. It seems that we were right at all and hope not to repeat ourselves once again for the good of the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, my colleague. The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Bakadima has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u288	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it will not be too much to say that today's bill also fully forms part of the framework of governance that New Democracy has had over the past few months. What are his key elements? Privatization, PPPs. We're looking everywhere, from our hospitals, from prisons. Slowly they enter all the pillars and all our lives. What else have we seen these months? A strategically planned contraction of the public sector and a series of violations of the Constitution's cheques. Unfortunately, this bill, which we are debating today, is occupied and inspired by the strong desire of the government to serve the interests of the oligarchy that is trying to continue to make the crisis an opportunity. With the legislation under discussion, we see the privatization of a body that we have so far not seen to such an extensive extent. Of course, we had the 'FRAPORT'. However, we see that there is now a gradual privatization of airport operating control services, a consistent request from the airlines which are the first and best hit by the FAFORT. A stone, a stone, is therefore built on the creation of the New Democracy. Why? Because we cannot discuss today's bill outside the context of all the previous ones. What were we seeing? The railways, the aerospace areas where we see individuals slowly entering, and the fact that you have done nothing about public transport throughout the months of the pandemic, and we are listening and we are re-engaging. We have not seen any increase in routes. In the summer, you, Minister, said the world would be conspiring, but on the other hand, we saw fines being cut. We haven't seen a new bus competition finalised yet. We've seen the recruitment notice. And she leaves a lot of questions, which will also be asked by questions, but also by future discussions. So all these pieces, starting from the waterways to today, are all pieces of the same puzzle. It's all buttoning in each other. And it is no coincidence that the only ones who have agreed and stood positively against the proposed draft law are those who will benefit, those who win from what is to be voted on today by the votes of the Coupling. After all, this is not the first time that we have seen the complete indifference of the New Democracy against the need to defend the public interest and the public body. Unfortunately, we are sure that today's bill will gradually lead to the complete deregulation and privatisation of the aviation market now controlled by the Civil Aviation Service. Because what you are going to do, the loss of supervisory control, will lead to a final loss of operational control. Thus, with the sole aim of satisfying the interests of those who are making public goods, you are sacrificed constitutionally and not just acquired. Unfortunately - and you will allow me to go back a little - on 17 November we made sure that the New Democracy Government was consciously choosing to violate the Constitution. And let's go back a little bit further before November 17th. You choose consciously, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, to circumvent a basic article of the Constitution, Article 21. You choose to resolve surface and communication gaps, which, of course, were not created now. They existed beforehand. The coronary just came to swell them and bring them to the surface. What do we have to note with regard to the support - as you think - of the ERC? You have proposed the permanentisation of ICU physicians, rather than suggesting a permanentization of all medical, nursing and paramedical staff required to manage the whole situation and to help the ERC to meet the increased needs of this period. Today I was at the "State of Nice". It's in my district. It's a hospital with huge problems. What did I learn from doctors and employees? That they were asked a few days ago to draw up a list of doctors only they had to contact, manage, treat, treat coronary incidents. No other explanation was given to them. The workers submitted a complete list, because from the cleaners, from the bankers to the nurses, to the doctors, they all give the fight together. All hands-hand give the race of the ESS to stand up in the throat of the pandemic. They returned the list, saying that it should only be doctors. Of course, no one had told them what the purpose of this list was. After quite a while - forward, go - come on the list came to the validity of the original, which involved not only doctors, but all the staff. What else have we noticed? The complete deforestation of primary health. You are trying to solve the gaps that exist in the ESS and the huge substation problems essentially with patches, transferring doctors, transferring nurses from primary structures to hospitals. From the start, Mera25 - and yesterday it did so with its amendment - is talking about the need for mass and repetitive tests. Our proposal was to create now centres where coronary tests will be carried out, which can then be used as vaccination centres and later as primary health centres. What else do we call you at the very first moment, since even superficial and communication legislation has made it a legislative act? The immediate requirement of clinics, so that hospitals can be discharged not from coronary cases, other than those which could be hospitalized. What did we see? And there superficial treatment with the order of two clinics in Thessaloniki. We believe - as we have already said - that these are the very few that could be done and they must be done now. Yesterday's rejection of the May25 amendment may have been made by the government, but the needs remain sufficient. They're on the table, and we're gonna have to talk about them, because we can't hide them anymore under the table. And I will conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with an issue that, as a woman and as a Member, has disturbed me, upset me and troubled me, I can say. Yesterday was the world day against violence against women. Several of us talked, posted our social media, placed in public. Every year this day is a special day, but this year for a reason above. Because within the pandemic, in both the first and second waves, we saw cases of domestic and civil violence increased, with the last example of the feminine murder we had in our country a few days ago. Everyone - I think - can agree that it is necessary for women to feel a security framework, to feel that they are not to blame for the violence they may suffer and that they can find a support in their family, in their environment and in the state, to feel that they are not alone, so that they can slowly open up and ask for help. What, unfortunately, did many women yesterday see at the close of such an important day? Did they see the induction and then the arrest of nine women who wanted to do what? They wanted to protest. They tried to open banners, observing all health measures, with slogans relating precisely on yesterday's day, against violence against women. And I'm wondering, I'm thinking out loud and I'm asking you this way, we want to make women - victims feel safe, ask for help and talk? That's how they'll feel the police won't bury their case, it won't make their eyes wrong, and it won't accuse them? Do we want to get through this message? Has the New Democracy come to think that the 'law and order' and its repression should be extended to that extent? To nine women who wanted to protest against the violence in their genders? Are these nine women, the nine feminists so great a threat that they should be brought forward and arrested afterwards? Of course, let's be honest. A few days ago, almost a week ago, we were the seven MPs of Mera25 "danger" for the government and were not allowed to complete the course until the American Embassy, not even the leader of our party, nor even the Vice-President of our party. Honestly, what was Mr Chrysochoidis afraid of? That seven elected representatives of the Greek people would burn the embassy? They'd put hoods in and throw molotovs? I really can't get into his mind or reason. I wouldn't want to. I'm hanging up with this. With the hand of the heart, I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that yesterday's images and the New Democracy's choice to respond with authoritarianism and violence against women, on the day against violence against women, can only cause anxiety to me. Anxiety for tomorrow waiting for us, sorrow, anger and shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Liupis has the floor from New Democracy and then the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill comes to cover the gaps and deadlocks that Law 4427/2016 had inevitably led to a recommendation from the Civil Protection Authority. It is at least disappointing that for three years the previous government has never put the ADP into operation. Because of this great frugality we have remained unambiguous about this issue with the European Union. It is absolutely necessary to separate the supervisory body, namely the regulator and the provider, in Civil Aviation in order to ensure transparency and improve the quality of the services provided to air transport in international and European standards. Today we are debating and voting on an integrated and effective plan for the activation of the Civil Aviation Authority. This is an independent administrative authority with functional independence, administrative and financial autonomy. Its responsibilities are many and important. The AOC shall assume a supervisory role of all air transport of all kinds while participating in the formulation of the national air transport strategy. It shall be subject to the protection of passengers' rights in relation to the fees imposed and to the issue, renewal or abolition of any licence or certification of civil aviation. The Civil Aviation Authority examines complaints submitted by both air transport undertakings and passengers. It is also responsible for resolving disputes between air transport companies and the public and for carrying out arbitration. As an independent administrative authority, the AMP may impose penalties such as fines on undertakings which violate national and European legislation. The financial autonomy of the AMP shall be ensured by the five sources of revenue which it has and which are specified in detail with the most basic route and terminal charges. The Executive Director and the Executive Board of the Authority shall be appointed by a five-year term. The specific qualifications to be acquired by the commander of the AMM shall be clearly identified. Amongst other importantly proven professional experience, experience in managing major infrastructure projects, high scientific training. As is self-evident from the commander of the AACC and the members of the Executive Board shall enjoy personal and operational independence in the exercise of their powers. On the basis of the previous law, the AMP was to have three hundred and eighty-seven staff. In today's bill, the new Civil Aviation Authority is managed by a hundred and seventy-two people perfectly capable of meeting its needs. These positions shall first be covered following an invitation of interest to the staff of the Civil Aviation Service. The PSC will no longer be responsible for the reimbursement of the fees collected by EUROCONTROL. The beneficiaries of these amounts will be the AMP, the NPI and the PSC, while the allocation is made on the basis of their operational needs. The change in relation to the monthly compensation received by the staff of the NDP is important as an incentive to better provide services and less delays in flights. In order to grant the compensation, it is necessary to assess the performance of the civil aviation service by the Civil Aviation Authority in relation to the achievement of the annual targets. In order to better serve its objectives, the new Civil Aviation Service ceases to be of a public service nature and takes the legal form of the legal person governed by public law. It thus acquires the necessary financial and administrative self-sufficiency. The new legal person enters the former as a universal successor. The PSC shall be financed by the EuroCONTROL route and terminal fees from various fees, paradoxes and other relevant fees, from the use of its assets and, in addition, where necessary by grants and grants from the State budget of the Public Investment Programme and the European Union. This bill comes to create a modern institutional framework in Civil Aviation without clamping and solely aimed at upgrading the services provided. This can only be done if there is a substantial separation of control and control. Greece is a country with a wide network of air transport which serves, among other things, increased tourist needs. More than 80% of tourists arrive in our country by air. Air safety is a big issue and we must do our best to ensure it. Everyone, visitors and citizens must feel and indeed be safe when using air transport in Greece. It was very critical that the situation in which we were found in 2019 threatening our country by subtracting from the European Aviation Safety Agency due to the absence of a supervisory body. The important objective of the change that is being made is to reduce delays in flights which have been one of the main problems facing air transport in recent years. The vote in favour of today's bill opens new roads to the development of air transport, air navigation and airports as another important part of the government's reform process. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u292	Thank you very much, Madam President. Allow me first of all on behalf of the JRC to welcome the racing mobilisations in the framework of the strike which has been announced by federations, labour centres and primary unions. Racing mobilisations spread across the country despite the climate of slander, despite blackmail, threats, surveillance, terrorism both on the part of employers and on the part of its state. We support the struggles of workers, people's bodies, youth and women. Races that are suited to the basis of respectful support for the suggestions of scientists in the pandemic. Games that take place for the right to life and work. Races held to support public health. In pandemic conditions, as does not suspend the author of the anti-population policy of the government, political and trade union action cannot be suspended. Anyone who believes by the government, and elsewhere who believes that with threats and terrorism, racing mobilisations will be suspended, is being misled. A second point, Madam President, is in yesterday's vote on the reduction of insurance contributions. This morning there was a bar of false news and their reproduction. So big a lie he blushed the lie itself. So what did various journalists and government representatives claim to the media? That through this process workers are benefiting because they will be increased, he says, wages. But, well, a little bite on you don't you have to say what the reality is? That through this procedure, the reduction of insurance contributions reduces the gross wage of workers? We've got a reduction in the gross wage. And what does it mean to be a mixed wage? That a piece goes directly as a net salary to meet its immediate needs and a second part is directed either to the insurance funds or other benefits via OAEDs, which are received by the workers themselves, the mixed part we call, the non-wage costs, as you call it. So this is where we don't have a reduction? What do we got? Do we have a raise? What's new math? Will you make us forget about the math we learned in the first grade that one and one are doing two and two minus one doesn't make three, does one? That's the essence of the matter. But what do you want to prove through this process? Why are you doing this? Why do you want to cover that by means of this decision taken by Parliament yesterday of reducing insurance contributions to yesterday's bill losers are workers once again, and the only winners are the business groups, who will see the wage bill, because it is not the employee's wages, as a whole, being reduced in the name of armoring the competitiveness of business groups. And, of course, this process of reducing wage spending is not even called into question by you as a government. Besides, the Minister for Conservation yesterday said that wage spending must be reduced, at the same time, the tax burden on businesses must be reduced, both in order to shield competitiveness, to make businesses more profitable. In other words, the profitability of business is confirmed by the fact that it is paid by the workers and the people to be profitable. It is at the expense of the needs of the workers and the needs of the people. So admit, too, that. And the question is not whether this improvement in the role of companies, businesses and competitiveness will be through the reduction of insurance contributions and whether it will have an impact on the OSH or not, i.e. whether it is supported by the state budget, as SYRIZA said, which agrees with the logic of reducing the wage costs of workers, but says that workers should pay it as taxpayers. So the question is, what pocket will they pay her to reduce the tax burden? Will they pay her as taxpayers or as employees? Is that the problem? They're gonna pay her anyway. The only benefits are the business groups. From this point of view we will see the following in the next few days. What's the follow-up? It is the one that the Prime Minister also announced yesterday and Mr Pissaridis also announced in his report that the next period of time in the measures we will take will be to further reduce the insurance costs of businesses for their employees. It will, it says, be a constant height of this and not fluctuations depending on wages. Where will it lead? It will lead to smaller revenues for the insurance funds. So what's that gonna mean? It will mean that workers will be forced to pay health and pharmaceutical costs for their welfare from their pockets. They'll put their hand even deeper in their pocket, it'll be bigger participation. They'll work longer and get a smaller pension. And all this to shield the competitiveness of business groups and profitability. That is why we say that what breaks the rights of workers is a matter of competitiveness. This is the reason why the rights of workers are being violated, which calls into question working, insurance and wage rights because they want a very cheap worker, without rights, consumable to the needs of each firm. From this point of view we must aim, in monopolies, at the enemy of the working class, and the interests of the monopolies and not just in one or the other form of management of the interests of capital by the respective government. Thirdly, Madam President, on the bill. Our rapporteur Manolis Synthrakis mentioned the bill in detail. What do I want to stress? That it is another link in the chain of air liberalisation, which was a policy of the European Union as a whole and not just, but here the European Union, which started in the middle of the 1990s. Why did the European Union do this? To have better air transport? Or was the main issue for air transport, like other sectors of the economy, to adapt to the needs of monopolies and capital? Because at the same time we have seen liberalisation in electricity, air transport, telecommunications and in a number of other sectors of the economy. Why did this all of a sudden? It is very simple, there were over-accumulated funds, which had to find new investment outlets and support for their profitability. Both the aviation, telecommunications and energy sectors and on the basis of new developments in technology were now profitable sectors for capital and its accumulation. Thus, it started a barrage gradually privatising infrastructure, private airport, the "Eleftherios Venizelos". Then SYRIZA privatized the fourteen airports with heart pain. The State monopoly of the carrier and state air carriers across Europe and Greece were abolished. The external lines have been abolished and freed for anyone who can fly on the inside. After all this, since this development, by all the governments took the step, we also have the Civil Aviation Agency, the management of aviation, with the separation between the control of the flight work and the rules. This division of course takes a step further in the course of privatisation and air navigation services. You don't know that? Why are you hiding it from me that any civil aviation service, to say it is understood, has been licensed in a member country of the European Union, can exercise air navigation services in our country. Anybody licensed is not prohibited. So private enterprises which exist and are privatised and the already under public control, which you are doing. And all this in the context of the Single European Sky. Why was the Single European Sky created? In order to adapt air transport corridors to the basis of a reduction in air transport costs. That's why they became the single corridors. That is why the national single area has been abolished. Greece belongs to the single area controlled by Italy within the framework of this part of the Eastern Mediterranean. It's been divided into six sections, if I'm not mistaken, the Single European Sky. That is where the national airspace belongs. And that protects our national borders and interests? Is that a security issue? You said, Minister, and others say so by the speakers of the government, that it will not have any security implications. I accept that it is the way you say it. Do you really guarantee us that through this process, when everything is subject to cost reductions, will the safety rules not be adapted to this regime, in this sense? And that through this logic of adjusting safety rules to contraction and cost-compression, will we not have any consequences, or any accidents, or any human error to be made as a result of intensification of work? Can you guarantee this and say: 'I will be responsible for not doing so'? You can't guarantee it, so we're putting this evidence in. Third question: Apart from the general, will this have an impact? It will certainly have a negative impact on workers, on the people's layers and on the fulfilment of their needs, as we have seen it has an impact on energy, energy poverty, telecommunications technological weakenment, increased class stratification on the basis of accessibility to the Internet, so also has an impact on air transport. And it will have an impact on whether real needs can be met by adequacy of routes on cheap routes, and at the same time it also affects workers in the air transport, air navigation and other sectors by intensification, overhaul of labour relations, contracts of employment and the worsening of their jobs. Finally, let us also say that 'Aegean', since it has entered the debate. Where's the main thing? That an urban state supports business groups either under crisis conditions or under development conditions such as support was the non-reduction of insurance contributions, such as the reduction of tax burdens, such as support is the policy of public expenditure, public procurement, the projects of large business groups. These are forms of indirect and direct support. As it directly supports them with funding from the Public Investment Programme from European funds, so it continues to support crisis conditions. He is now doing so in the name of saving business groups in crisis conditions and in conditions of development in the name of ensuring profitability. Let us see, over time, where this political support for business groups has led to a crisis. Let me remind you of the notorious state-of-the-art state-of-the-art and the company-reconstruction fund, as the first PASOK government has called it, which all the firms in difficulty have entered. What happened? Loans and debts to insurance funds and taxes have been socialised. If you search the list of which major business groups owe to banks, insurance funds and tax authorities you will see businesses that have ceased their operation, from those that have joined the privatization fund. What was said was given a beer rather than the private ones to close again after a while. And those who did not exalt were completely and definitively closed. And where did the debts of these businesses go? To the people because we had been state-owned, we didn't even have a market for some shares. Forget the banks' recapitalisation? Three were made in the governments of New Democracy - PASOK and one on SYRIZA on which banks supported taxpayers' money, with EUR 40 billion if I am not mistaken. What's left of these 40 billion? Approximately 1.5 billion is now left. The rest went to this state debt bucket called to pay him by the taxpayers. And what happened to the non-participation of the state in these banks? It's practically annihilated or inclined to annihilate. And now you're faked - confrontation between SYRIZA and New Democracy about what form will the support for "AEGEAN" take? So whether they get on stock or are they privileged to say KINAL and SYRIZA or to be the warrants that New Democracy says? What's changing? She escaped a SYRIZA MEP, said: "If she went bankrupt and has taken warrants?". So if he has taken stock of what will happen that will have a bankrupt company's shares? Not even - because they're intact now - wallpaper you won't make. Back when they were printed, there could be a wallpaper. Who are you mocking that through this process? Whether it is done on stock or in any other way, you support businesses and not public interests in general, in the broad sense of the term and much more of the people. The result is unique. Here, too, it is no contradiction that all governments within the civil system are socialising the damage of businesses and privatising profits. This is not a contradiction, but this is essentially the definition of the parasitic nature of capitalist enterprises and their state. And with this parasiticism, workers need to get over with once and for all, if they want to satisfy all the modern needs by exploiting the wealth they have, the wealth they create, and all the productive potential and technological developments. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u293	I will give the floor to Mr Stamenitis now from New Democracy because he has to go to the Committee on Production and Trade to speak and immediately after the speech Mr Hetas Parliamentary spokesman for the Greek Solution. Here, Mr Stamenitis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u294	Today we are discussing the draft law on the creation of an independent authority, which comes to fill the great gap left by the previous government. The three-year characteristic delay of SYRIZA government to implement a law that it itself passed, leaves no doubt that the legislative framework of 2016 or was problematic or in fact impracticable, or was incomplete or consciously the previous government did nothing about the separation between the supervisory authority and the provider. And what happened after that? It has led our country to a step forward before it has been subjected to security issues by the European Aviation Safety Agency. I do not think we need to explain to anyone what this would mean to our country, a particularly tourist country. Therefore, the Ministry’s leadership comes in full cooperation with the international organisations involved and legislates for the creation of this Independent Authority, EASA, with specific responsibilities, regulatory and supervisory, and with legal, administrative and financial autonomy, which completely separates the service provider from the PSC by thus fulfilling the country’s obligations vis-à-vis European legislation. We have in front of us a legislative text that introduces a flexible, functional, without provisions for unnecessary organic positions on the basis of European standards, a new legislative framework that promotes the national aviation strategy, strengthens the development of the aviation market through a clear framework of rules, harmonises national and European legislation and is the passage to a new era that will have a central structure that ensures more efficient use of resources. It establishes an integrated operational framework that strengthens the coordination and control system and establishes a uniform, proportionate and dissuasive system for the enforcement of administrative penalties in cases of non-compliance with legislation. Finally, it reduces state spending as the principle is characterised by financial self-sufficiency. In parallel to the creation of the principle, we have the overall reform of the Civil Aviation Service in order to increase its efficiency, ensure and enhance transparency and improve its resources. The specific draft law we are discussing is therefore a necessary legislative reform, whereby Greece in the air transport sector is fully in line with the European framework and closes an important loose end to the old SYRIZA's leaving the government. During meetings on the draft law in the Commission, but also in plenary, we heard criticism from SYRIZA colleagues, to whom I should like to dwell on two points. First point is the number of organic positions. So he asks SYRIZA: Why, from four hundred seventy people who existed as prediction, does today’s leadership go to a hundred seventy? What does that mean? There is nothing to do with the substance. Apparently SYRIZA is closing his eye on trade unionists and it's obviously another proof of populism. It turns out once again that the opposition party is the main and timeless expressionist of populism in the country. You need to know that we are not just claiming that the number provided is sufficient or that we have taken it out of our minds. Eight months of OSH officials with EASA's directives evaluated the organogram and agreed with us and European practice, Italy, France with three times the traffic in the air transport sector, and SYRIZA comes and tells us that the same number is not enough for Greece. I am sorry, but we will prefer European practice. A second point in our criticism is the creation of an independent authority. It creates a security issue, SYRIZA's people say. They also say that the independent authorities are the premier of privatization. You probably cannot imagine a public function that is not under the suffocating control of the state, perhaps of the party state. You disagree, you say with the independent authority because it does not fall under the central control of the Minister. You are telling us that we are turning a public service into a legal person governed by public law and therefore at the back of our minds is the privatisation of this service. All you are actually doing with this criticism is to illustrate the ideological view of the state and its function, but also the way you understand the governance of the country. The independent authorities shall be legal persons of the State. Obviously, they do not fall under a hierarchical control by the Minister. And what's the problem? However, this, ladies and gentlemen, does not prevent them from developing nor from carrying out the work they are called upon to carry out, or from making them insolvent, or from showing that they are the pretext of privatization. You know, that's our difference. You represent yesterday, the unsuccessful model of state control, the absolute control of state administration structures by the party. We believe in separation of powers, division of responsibilities and responsibilities. This proves...(It has not been heard)... of Civil Aviation and Air Transport, which must be directed precisely in this direction, namely the separation of responsibilities, supervision and performance of the provider. I think we should agree on that. That is why we all have to vote together for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u295	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Hetas, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u296	Madam President, thank you very much. What is this thing with the independent authorities? I mean, if we want to, Minister, you're stopping us and humiliating us. I listened with interest to my colleague earlier: 'independent authorities', 'independent authorities'. The Constitution stipulates that we must have five independent authorities. Five, guys, not forty-five. Five. Independent authorities everywhere! Does the colleague who spoke before? In order for the state to function, does it need independent authorities? So, what's he doing? Does each independent authority replace the functioning of the State? Isn't that why the governments, the ministers, the staff? You know - the President of the Greek Solution said yesterday - what is the cost of the independent authorities? From 300 to 600 million a year, Minister. The independent authorities. Most of them are slow-wages in there. Competition Committee 5 million, ASAP 20 million, Citizens' advocate 28 million a year! Do you know how many buses you would have taken, since you're Minister for Transport, if he didn't learn the state to operate only with independent authorities? We are vertically opposed to independent authorities. We've said it. There is a state that needs to be operated. It won't do our job, the state, the state, the independent authority. Don't go to the PSE now, Minister, who themselves have admitted to be slow-wages. Let's just let that go. Let's go later now. Let's go to another issue, Minister, since you represent two ministers of government here today. We are now going to extend a general ban until Monday 7 December. Let's just say today's life's been changing. Seven, you know, it's the number of liar in general. That's what they call it. I'm not saying he's a liar, but seven is the liar's number. Seven months, prolongation and magic number seven enter our cell phones now. We'd send six to take a walk with our little dogs, then we'd send three to the doctor. We'll send seven now to shop Christmas ornaments, gifts, etc. Added to 13033 and number 7, Mr. Poppa. If you want to get lamps for your tree, you'll send 7 to 13033 and get lamps for your tree. Added, too. That's not happening. And you have to admit at some point that you haven't done well at all. Don't say you've done a mess with the second wave of pandemic. And if you don't believe us, listen to the world, listen to society, listen to the polls, your polling friends who have 40%, 38%. Yesterday's poll. I'll submit it to the end for the Minutes. ‘Pandeia, main causes for the second wave: Imported cases from tourism 48.4%’. We've said it many times that you left the situation uncontrollable, you used the wrong algorithm and you messed it up. So we could check it out. ‘By means of mass transport, the third most important reason. Other information: Indignation of certain groups.’ In fact, there may not be anything you could do. 'Delay in action'. Basic reasons for living the second wave and coming the third wave. Now let's go to the part of the vaccine, 'cause there's a lot to be said. I won't lie down. We'll say three things clearly. There's a statement today, Minister, Mr. Pecha. I don't know what you're thinking, because you're starting to confuse us. Will vaccination be mandatory? We don't have such a feeling. Petsas says that "until the end of June all Greeks will be vaccinated". What does he mean, now? Now he made the statement a moment ago, and said he would be vaccinated by the end of June, the whole population. Here's a little something. As fifteen minutes ago, Ministers - and it is not in elliniki - lisi.gr, in the "CRERO THEMA" or in other major sites that you hear them - the "FINANCIAL TIMES" wrote: Improve the effectiveness of the "ASTRAZENECA" vaccine. Here, 15 minutes ago, fresh. What do you say? We're not sure yet. We're not sure yet. Who doesn't want the planet all to be relieved? Who does not want to relieve our society, our Greece or all European countries of getting out of our homes? Are we ready? Is there a risk or not? Will you do the vaccine? You don't know? You'll answer me later. You don't feel safe yet. Because we have said it about the vaccine, not the mandatory vaccination rate. We don't say anything else. Anyone who wants and when it's sure, 100% checked that we've reduced the side effects to a minimum, whoever wants to get vaccinated. You can't oblige someone to go to vaccination. I did not understand Mr Petsa's statement, in fact: "The entire Greeks will be vaccinated by the end of June." That's all about the vaccines. Now we're going back to the relapse, trimming, etc. Parents are shaking. You have them out of your mind. That's it. You say in a week you'll open the schools again. Listen now! I mean, you closed it in the summer. Why did you turn it off? Because the kids were health bombs. In the fall you opened them. Why did we open them? Because students don't transmit the virus, it's not an outbreak. In November you reopened the schools without explaining why you made this decision. Now you tell him Greek, whom you are compelled to make Christmas away from his family, to send his children back to school, to meet another twenty-five different families there and to return home. You haven't taken any measures for schools. No rooms, no strings, no shifts, nothing. That's all about the coronary. We are going to some other topics and I have taken the floor yesterday's debate which the political leaders also discussed. We have seen here the Prime Minister's political austerity with Mr Tsipras and the jokes and the jokes and the router and the bulletins played all and the sites reproduced them. I'm fine. It's all right, all right. But we have serious issues, you know. Mr. Admiral, "Oruc Reis" continues to ride. I'm afraid so. We're in the process to measure if it's 5.8, if it's 6, if it's 6.1. That's 12 miles. We went 6:00 now. Now let's go 5.8 and now count again. Or the Turks count it, from another starting point, or we count it. He's not even 6:00 yet. There is no seriousness and every minute that passes the "Oruc Reis" always comes closer to Athens. I can't figure out what we're waiting for. I just want to say something. National sovereignty, Minister, is not a government choice. It's a government obligation. So we have to look at it a lot more seriously, because The Hague is coming. And we will go to an issue that we are very sensitive to. Yesterday, the President of the Greek Solution said so, and I would like to come back, please, very much. So while the Turks have been demolished, we in this Intergroup Committee of Thrace, which have indeed come to discuss and participate in this committee with warm and seriousness, because it was a intergroup committee, find that something is wrong with the President of the Commission, Mrs Bakoyannis. How can this committee accept e-mails from a Muslim lady who declares a representative of a Turkish minority in Thrace? And we sit on the table and chat with these people? Do we officially anoint them to speak? What do we do? Do we recognize a Turkish minority in our Thrace? Why does this committee operate in secret? This is not working in secret, my dear Admiral - and I have often expressed my discontent because I am a member of the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs - the Committee on National Defence! Only in some cases, the other ones are TV-covered. So, the Thrace Committee why don't we have any minutes? I didn't get it! Why are there no cameras, practically, to know what's going on, what's being discussed, what's being exchanged, what's coming, what's fax? We should know! The Turks talk about Thrace every day. What do we do for years now? We are pushing the Greek Muslims of Thrace, our brothers, into the arms of the Turks. That's what we're doing! Why did Mrs. Bakoyannis go? He is the chairman of a cross-party committee and has an institutional role. Why did he go without informing anyone and meet clubs who define themselves as Turkish clubs in Thrace? Things aren't right there. The President of the Greek Solution said so yesterday. We're thinking about leaving if the situation doesn't comply, really. These are dangerous things. Mr President, I do not know if you saw yesterday the front page of the newspaper 'ESTIA'. I won't stay on the front page of the paper. I will remain in the essence of the headlines invoked by the Greek Police and not the conclusions of the Greek Solution. The Greek Police's classified report: 25% of residents in Athens are immigrants. 25%! It's a creepy number! In Patisia and Agios Panteleimon, the percentage is close to 50%. It's called the classified police report. Is this Greece we want? Pakistan, Bangladesh, Congo, Somalia, Afghanistan, all the tribes of Islam. That's enough! Greece dies in your hands - don't you see? - Every day. There is a map, to understand the size of fraud committed against Greece. What's everybody doing here? I'll testify to him in the Minutes. Here's Congo, here's Somalia, here's Greece! What are the ones coming here? Let me get this straight. I shall submit it to the Minutes and that, together, all at the end of my speech. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, there is a survey of EUROSTAT - which I say again is not ours, but they cannot pass, 'bay', so no one can see it! - official statistics showing that illegal migration flows arriving in Greece are not the majority of refugees. To those who first applied for asylum, males were 62%. Of these, if one excludes children between the ages of 14 and 17, males were 68%. Here's the painting. We'll testify to you all. Corresponding to the military age of eighteen to thirty-four men were 69%. As a rule, then, neither couples nor families nor infants come. Here come people who pretend to be refugees with other purposes! And I'm going to close with something else, on the occasion of something that's troubled us - the arrest of women yesterday. It was a very special day yesterday because it's not just protecting the woman. It's how you raise your son because tomorrow he'll be a man, a way of saying, in quotes, because he's not a man who abuses a woman. You took out all your madness and rigour on the eleven women! I don't really understand it. How can a decision be justified when you're arresting ten women? You've done it a little too far, you don't know what's going on with you. So you're arresting women, but how is the appeal warranted? Twenty thousand people! How do you justify the Polytechnic? How do you justify, on the contrary, the 28th is different? But then we take away our rigour to the eleven women who went to the Constitution! It's weird stuff. There is no democracy without equality. Or we'll make a decision and say that until we get out of the virus, there's nothing going on! And there's a gap here. Because that for November 17 was four days the ban. Now it's true, isn't it? What's the matter? On the 6th of the month - we say it now again - Sunday is Gregoropoulos - the second half! Let's see what happens there! And on this part of isology and injustice, Mr. Minister, you are - the father was crying - here are the police calls, 900 euros! Nine hundred euros to a seventeen-year-old girl. A police officer has confirmed three subtle fines on the seventeen-year-old, unemployed father. It writes them up here on paper: 300 euros because it was released after 21.00' - it was 21.10', the call says it up -, another 300 euros for unnecessarily moving and another 300 euros for non-use mask, totalling 900 nine hundred euros. You'll see, Mr. Gika, after. Nine hundred euros fine on the seventeenth year old! What can I say now? Is that the face of the state and the measures you take? You're confusing us! Make decisions and get more serious because things aren't right. The world's insane. He's unemployed, he's locked in his house, he sees his business shut down. He doesn't have to look at anything tomorrow, he's afraid of his health, of his life, and he sees these inequalities. If you save this fellow Member's 900 euro society, I really want to look into it and give the money back to this unemployed father. I don't know the gentleman who he is. Give them back. I'm filing everything in the Minutes so everyone can access it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Before giving the floor to Mr Sarakiotis, I will give the floor for two minutes to the Minister for Transport to make a small position on legal arrangements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u298	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted the floor in order to inform the House that we are making some legislative improvements, mainly of a verbal nature, and I would ask you, as they are distributed to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u299	I would ask that they be distributed to my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u300	We are also accepting two ministerial amendments from the Ministry of Maritime Affairs under a general number of 583 and a special 13, and of course ours, from the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure under a general number of 591 and a special 15, with regard to water facilities in land ports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, too, Minister. Webex now has the floor, Mr Sarakiotis from SYRIZA. Please, Mr. Colleague, watch your watch because you don't hear the warning bell.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u302	Of course, Madam President. Thank you. The debate on the creation, operation and responsibilities of the Civil Aviation Authority in the implementation of a European directive should have a formality and a direct conclusion with the agreement of all political parties. Nevertheless, the New Democracy Government, by the leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, once again manages to charge an ideologically painless draft law. After all, the government's policy signal in the critical infrastructure and transport sector was given just last week, through the reduced budget for the relevant Ministry for the FPI, the Public Investment Programme. Your ambition is extinct in the emergency, in the inseparable privatisation of everything and, in order to achieve this objective for the institution concerned, you have a identical plan. At first, you deceive him and grieve him, then lay the responsibilities of your own incompetence to other governments or even worse times to the workers, and in the end show the choice of privatization as the only salvation and as the necessary evil. Sub-financing, sub-selling, depreciation and in-sale. Besides, the President of the Federation of Civil Aviation Associations, Mr Triantafyllou, who said: “We are creating a legal person governed by public law with fear, on the part of the employees, of becoming private law. This is the real fear." He also stressed: "We have the management of the twenty-three regional airports, which have not been granted and we do not know what the next day is for them. But even if this management is to be carried out and the investments are right, we should also have resources. These resources are deprived by the PSC. Why?’ The next stage of your standing strategy has been described by Mr. Kalogeropoulos, who is the President of the Air Safety Engineering Association, in relation to the financial management and the suspicions that lie on your own responsibility. He said, "I think it is well known that workers do not manage resources. Their resources are managed by the Greek state. If the Greek state does not manage them properly, it is not the workers' fault. It is now clear that there is transparency. So before there was no transparency? This is offensive to all workers. Minister, please listen, even once, to the people who are familiar with the subject and are directly concerned with it. Do not just be guided by your ideological nuisances, with a more indicative and characteristic example of the fact that you avoid giving clear answers to the reduced number of workers at the beginning. Is it possible in such a critical area, which also concerns safety issues, to undermine the existence of a permanent supervisory mechanism at airports, even when the existence and action of the aviation authority is also foreseen in concession contracts? From this, you should understand that even private operators understand the need to operate and operate the State supervisory mechanism. Only - I am sorry to say that - you cannot or do not want to understand. From there on, let us see Europe's elements and European practice. In our country, thirty-two airports operate under the umbrella of the European Aviation Safety Agency, and your proposal is about the employment of only seventy-two workers. At the same time, if we see what is happening in other countries, there are nine airports in Ireland where five hundred and twenty-six employees are employed, and in France about three and a half thousand in eight airports. This information has also been provided to the committee and has been heard today by other colleagues and your Members, the Government Members have stated in response to the terrible situation, that small airports in the outermost regions do not require the permanent presence of personnel. It is not possible to express such views, especially on matters relating to airport safety. The private sector and the major business interests cannot be deposited in an ideological and therefore unilateral way, when the reality itself verifys the importance of the dominant presence of state supervision. I now come to the recent example. You are channeling an additional EUR 120 million to a private company, AEGEAN, in order to balance the damage caused by the pandemic. They are characteristic and the statements made by the government representative, who said that the Greek State would receive special Warrants options for the purchase of the company’s shares, which would be entitled to exercise under specific conditions at that time. Indeed, it has rushed to reassure the world by justifiable that with the recovery of economic activity and movements there will be an increase in the price of the company's share and that the Greek State may receive money. It became clear, that is, how you manage the money of Greek taxpayers. You grant many millions of euros to "loans" with vague promises to come back in the future. It seems that Mr. Petsas has found the “leaf trees,” they bear fruit. So there must be a will to pay off. The same people who were raped to privatize "OLYMPIAKI", because they charged themselves with public debts, but debts they had created themselves, now they are rushing back with public money to support this time a private company, which I am passing away was advertising its high profitability. And in the case of 'AEGEAN', the government seems very generous in contrast to how it treats our vulnerable fellow citizens, where it seems very pitiful. It calls for respect for budgetary discipline rather than - after coming to Christmas, it comes in December - a generous social dividend, which today needs more than ever thousands of our fellow citizens. Let me remind you that SYRIZA had distributed in December 2018 about EUR 1 billion. The government has only 54 million euros, that is to say, less than 50% of the corresponding company to be given to the family friend of the Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, because of its geomorphology, our country must place particular emphasis on the air transport sector and of course on safety issues. It is not understood that such crucial issues will become a wide range of depository of ideas and expressions of micro-political purposes, defamation of workers, sub-financing of structures and management of the ratification of European directives with subordinated services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u303	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Yoyakas from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u304	Good evening. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today, and we are legislating to distinguish principle and provider in aviation and air transport, because the law in force does not simply work. And it does not work because the previous government did not take this distinction seriously. First of all, she saw her in procedural terms as a Memorandum of Understanding, which had to be done in such a way that she could pass through the evaluation of the institutions. I would remind you that the debate and vote of the relevant law, under Law No.4427 of 2016, had taken place under the urgency procedure. It is also indicative of the attention and time given by the Ministry of Transport at the time. However, the previous government saw it as something else, as another opportunity, another window of recruitment in the public and also of arranging friends. As a result, it was a law that raised the existing problems, which built a single project items without an operational or operational reason, which multiplyed organic units, also without an operational and operational reason, and a delay of about two years in the adoption of the Presidential Decrees for the Civil Protection Authority and the PSC. Hydrocephalus and full of rhysphetological provisions were described by the then rapporteur of the New Democracy and our current Minister, Kostas Karamanlis. And it comes today that the Opposition characterizes, above all in the same way, as an Athenian-centric and centralized model that abolishes regional units at local airports. This is where I think the answer of both the Minister and the commander of the authority was clear. It has been chosen to give weight to a form of auditors, all of whom will be excellently trained in their areas of responsibility and who in the era of teleworking, teleworking and telecooperation, will use the technologies and computer tools to deal with each issue at each regional airport, coordination with the Civil Aviation Service, the Police and any other public authority and service, and work that does not require a physical presence on the spot, because they can also be done electronically. There has also been mention of the planned positions in the establishment plan of the authority, which is around 35% of those currently envisaged. These positions were not decided on in the air. It was a committee's recommendation that worked for eight months, involving experts and experts from the European Commission and the European Aviation Safety Agency, who considered the needs taking into account the appropriate sizes, with knowledge of all the different models that are applied throughout Europe. It is therefore a decision based, contrary to the one taken by the previous government in 2016, on the structure of the thirteen addresses and the sixty-five departments and obviously the top-level allowances involved. It is clear to me, ladies and gentlemen, that the forecasts guaranteeing the independence of the Civil Aviation Authority by the executive, as well as the selection of the term'supported' instead of'supported' by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, as is clear the feasibility of changing the Civil Aviation Service to a legal person governed by public law, because, among other things, it means greater flexibility in the collection and payment of fees and full transparency in their management, so that they are properly exploited for the purposes paid, namely for the needs of the air navigation system in infrastructure, technology, staff and education. With the reforms that are being adopted today, ladies and gentlemen, new foundations are being laid for the proper functioning of the Civil Aviation Authority and the OSH provider. On these basis, the staffing of a new authority with appropriate staff can proceed with the upgrading of air navigation services and the air traffic system by the OSH which has a direct impact on air quality and the movement of tourist flows. So from this point of view, the bill does not only bring about a change of institutional character, but it is also an intervention with a strong development message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. We'll close the list of speakers with Mr. Aylonite from SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Madam President. Despite the fact that four meetings were held in the committee and despite the fact that we had five hundred sixty-six comments in public consultation, I see that the Minister is dealing with the issue with a monolithicity that impresses me. This is a very important issue. You don't have the epiphany of the Holy Spirit, nor do you make the new Gospel. I was, of course, impressed by the fact that there were designations to the SYRIZA speakers, both on the part of the Minister and on the part of Mr Kairidis. These are words which are ironic. For example, Mr. Khiridis said that we are'slime', we on the side of SYRIZA, that we have a lot of nerve, that we are comics. But these things are not serious. So there we were talking and ready to contribute in the best possible way to this debate, the story of the 120 million euros of 'Aegean' is digging. Our opposition and our proposals on this issue cannot be tackled by smart competition and verbalism. You should take our criticism seriously. In fact, our rapporteur, Mr Pappas, this morning, has had a lot of good arguments and I think that you do not. Do we have to shut down and put zippers in our mouths and not say what happens to 'Aegean'? Don't you want, for example, to tell you figures like what I'm about to give you right away? At the end of 2019, ‘AEGEAN’ had a liquidity of EUR 510 million. From 2005 to 2019 he had profits of 522 million euros. From 2015 to 2019 dividends were granted to the bosses of EUR 210 million. Good! So don't celebrate that he'll put 20 million. It's her company. However, we cannot comment on the fact that during this debate, during this process of financial aid to AEGEAN, which we too accept, there must be some safeguards. Mr. Pappas said that 40% of the stock value is the grant of 120 million. Should the public also not be guaranteed shares? In that sense, therefore, I think that it does not harm any further seriousness. We cannot fail to point out that we would expect the government to show the same sensitivity and reflexiveness for thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises that have been on the side of the disaster for eight months, and that instead of grants and non-refundable aid, the vast majority of them have either not received a single euro or only received some loans in the form of repayable aid, thus increasing their debt to be transferred to March, April, May. Do you know what feels sorry for me, Minister? That you show too much sensitivity to the big ones and, unfortunately, your sensitivity is unexistent to the small ones. So stop the irony to the SYRIZA speakers. And I come to the bill. Madam President, as I mentioned in my first speech to the committee, the revenues of EUROCONTROL must be attributed to the air navigation service provider. The revenues were and are intended to finance only salaries, maintenance, operating costs and investments in new systems and equipment of the provider. I'm not saying anything exciting. EUROCONTROL had been researching in 2016 and there it was found that 50% of the revenues were going to provide a loan. If I remember correctly, a company was set up in 2001, the famous 'AIOLOS', and until recently we disbursed the loan from EUROCONTROL's revenues. This money financed the general government's costs. As a result of this whole story, there is no substantial upgrade in the field of airport image over the last decade. Thus, all fourteen airports were sold. You remember what propaganda was going on during the big financial crisis for their reparation. The media went to various places where the situation was unacceptable, such as in toilets, etc. Of course, fourteen were sold, and now the 'FRAPORT' does what it has to do if it does as it should. On this point, Madam President, I would also like to add that Greece is unacceptablely cheap on air navigation charges, along with the pillaging of its revenues, which I have just spoken about. It did not replace technological systems by participating in new technologies. We're pigeons. This is not due to the large cosmo-historical event that is trying to institutionalise through this draft law, i.e. that the OSH by public service should become a legal entity governed by public law, in future see ‘privateisation’. This is due to the lack of political will. For example, the Single European Sky, the famous ‘Single European Sky’, does not require any privatisation or conversion into legal entities governed by public law. However, it requires new technologies, increased automation to serve the increasing number of flights in Europe, when they return to pre-coronary levels, and time saving, therefore fuels, as requested by airlines. For workers, who are well-known and victims of the procedures, it is not apparent that the change in the PSC to a legal person governed by public law improves the speed of implementing the necessary investments in new systems in order to meet the objectives of the performance plan and the commitments of the single European sky required by the European Union. What is needed is investment that will improve our performance and justify an increase in fees for our country. I ask, Minister, what have you done since the Ministry took over so that the Civil Aviation Service can replace its ancient equipment and obtain new technology tools to optimise air navigation services? What were the investments all over the previous period? All you know was taking the revenue and shutting holes. And your only argument is to constantly criticise SYRIZA. What we have repeatedly said is that what was exercised as a policy during SYRIZA's governance was not his programme declaration itself, it was not what he wanted. He simply digested the orders of our lenders. Why are you omissioning that? Why do you have a life missing it, and so you criticise it like SYRIZA exercising his policy with complete discretion? You therefore want to convert the PSC from public service to a legal person governed by public law and then to privatise it. Here we are and let those who listen to us remember. After all, you're going to vote for the bill. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At the same time, all air navigation service providers in Europe and the world run to request lending from their states to continue operating. Airline companies, such as ‘ALITALIA’, are state-owned or the State lends them in exchange for a significant percentage of shares. And I come to something else and I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u307	Mr. Comrade, you're in eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u308	The commander of the APM at the hearing said: "This will not be an Athenian-centre organisation,..." - which is part of our criticism - "but the APM will, by object, have competent training in the subject that can be trained through a centre and with the technology that APM will have to deal with all regional issues. The Minister, the day before yesterday, invoked this technology and spoke of the radar available to the OSH as a tool for remote aerodrome control.’ I'm sure - and remember what I'm saying to you - that the workers who heard him will use his line as a joke. I don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u309	Mr. Comrade, you need to close up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u310	Thanks for listening. Thank you, Madam President, for giving me the time. So it is certain that we are not going to vote on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u311	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. I will give the floor to the State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Kefaliannis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, because I had spent a number of years and a parliamentary representative then in the political opposition, I would like to have two comments on the procedure. Obviously the Rules of Procedure also allow a parliamentary representative to make criticism and reference to everyday life, but of course we have seen today, for example, Parliamentary representatives not even mentioned in the bill which is being discussed and also parliamentary representatives who, in fact, have referred very little and others have referred to issues which had nothing to do with today's bill. It is well known to all of us - if you like - the need to establish an Independent Civil Aviation Authority, a authority which is responsible for the certification and supervision of air transport and air navigation and whose operation is dictated by both international practices and European regulations. Of course, the draft law to be adopted is not the first to come to meet this need. He mentioned many of them in this Chamber, there is Mr.4427/2016, who was voted on by the then government of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, who attempted to implement this imposed separation of responsibilities of the PSC from that of the PSC, who, however, actually did not obtain any application. And effective implementation means that the law has an impact on social reality and that it is an effective law and, of course, it does not have a blank letter, a mortal text. Of course, here you will allow me to tell you that this law, n.4427, was not the only law which at least remained inapplicable in terms of infrastructure and transport. I would remind you that a series of legislations, while they have been passed, have never been implemented, for example the driving licences, which had led us to about ten months, and a hundred and fifty thousand of our fellow citizens to wait for the examinations and not to have the diploma, or even the 4th rail package with multiple letters from the European Commission, where they actually warned us with sanctions, since there was a delay over the two years and had not been voted, and even the law on the waterways, which was also a law that remained inapplicable. And many times there may be the best of intent. I'm not going to go to trial here for the laws. They did have a good sign, but when a law remains inapplicable, it does not actually serve the role that the government wants, but also the legislature. Four years after the adoption of Law 4427, a complete separation of supervisory responsibilities and certification of the services provided by the air carriers has not occurred. And that is a reality, ladies and gentlemen. Even those who are today reacting well know that the law was not written primarily to improve the quality of air transport services and to regulate them, but, unfortunately, to combine individual interests of a craftsman - not to say otherwise - to serve personal professional ambitions. And to say it, perhaps more simply, the previous law moved into a logic "how much do we want to make it work?" So many, that will be the number, so this will also be the beginning, instead of the right one, of 'how should it be a proper and proper administration'? and on this basis we can see who will also serve this principle. Because, unfortunately, if we follow the first practice, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going anywhere. If the aim of the legislature is only to set up a syndicate and to serve a few - I repeat - professional personal ambitions, then, unfortunately, we end up with inappropriate laws, and that is the practice that has unfortunately been followed many times in the past by the previous government. With this draft law, we are aiming to serve the social whole of Greece, namely, the whole of the Greek society, which we want to benefit from improved, more economical and, of course, safer air transport. And for this to happen, you must have a Civil Aviation Authority, which correctly supervises the services provided, a Civil Aviation Authority with a flexible and efficient structure, properly staffed, for which aviation providers will feel that it is doing its duty in matters of safety, environmental protection and safety from unlawful actions. You will also allow me to say a few words on the amendment to which the Minister referred and which was accepted, namely the amendment under the general number 591 and a special 15. It is, I think, quite rightly small - ports in their land area, unfortunately, have not been institutionalised or defined for land use or for construction purposes. This is a problem quite important, which affects the substantial development of these ports, and many times it is also an inhibiting factor in attracting investment both public and private. And this problem becomes more acute in the small islands, for which the ports are the main, if not the only hub of economic activity and communication with the mainland. We have therefore been faced with this problem in our attempt to license water on small islands, where there are no conditions for building and land use. And so, with the proposed amendment, we are trying to address this problem - and only this problem - and above all the weakness of installing or installing portable houses and other facilities required for a transitional period, until the land uses and construction conditions are specified. That is why we call on all the parliamentary forces to support this amendment, which will in fact facilitate the entire process of water licensing, particularly in the small islands of our country. In this way we will give a boost to their development and to further lifting their isolation from mainland Greece. And I think that if anyone reads the amendment, I do not need to go further into the fact that it will obviously not bring about any financial impact. On the other hand, I think that the development of a water network across the island will be a lever for development and - I repeat again - a factor that is crucial for the removal of isolation from mainland Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. And now we are going to the rapporteurs and ask them if they want to be second-guessed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u314	Madam President, I would like to.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u315	Mr. Arsenis from Mera25. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u316	Thank you very much, Madam President. This is a bill that deregulations large companies at airports for the benefit of ‘FRAPORT’, ‘AEGEAN’ and all other large companies, with the rights of passengers, with the victim of airport safety, with the public interest. Minister, as I said in my speech, you have had to tell too many lies, many inaccuracies both in your speech yesterday and in the previous ones. You said this bill was actually drafted by a committee involving the commander of APM when it was handed over to the Ministerial Council on 30 June and the commander of APM was appointed in July. You said that airport operators do not need to be involved in accidents, because there is the Air Accident Investigation Committee, when this committee only investigates huge accidents, as in the case of HELIOS and in all other cases, on a daily basis, it is only airports that can do so. You said you didn't even have to be present at the airport security committee when he chairs. You said - okay, what was it? - there were a hundred incidents, a hundred complaints in Thessaloniki in 2020, "What to do with the thirty airports for a hundred complaints?", when they are twenty airports in 24-hour service, i.e. on shifts, and when these hundred complaints were at airports where the traffic has decreased by 70% and when the written complaints were hundreds of daily oral complaints resolved. You said that there were no checks on aircraft from airports, when you know very well that these checks are carried out - and obviously that is why you have never seen them - before and after passengers enter aircraft and Mr. You also said that there was a dialogue with workers' representatives. What happened was that they met the Secretary-General and one of your advisers, gave him the record, and when they were asked to tell them what changes will be made to the bill on the basis of the memorandum and what response is, anyway, in this memorandum, the Secretary-General replied that only the Minister, whom they have never met, can tell, and your adviser - from what they have at least carried us - responded that this can only be said by the Prime Minister. And it makes sense to say all this because you are trying to defend something that the Prime Minister seems to have brought. It seems that this unconditional delivery of airports to very large private interests is a central design. It's a bill of specific services, away from the public interest. Merra25 condemns it and invites you to withdraw it even now. Obviously, we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. The floor is now given by the special speaker of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliardos for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u318	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to refer to the two articles that we have asked to withdraw, to 43 and 52, and to the two amendments in outline. First of all, for Article 43, on staff compensation costs, with the amendment of Article 34 of Law 2682/1999, I would like to say: Here we insist that we are in breach of the EU/2/19/317 directive. This article of the bill states that the performance plans under the directive are drawn up by the national supervisory authorities, for example in our case of AMP. It also says that after receiving all the information from the providers - i.e. the PSC in our case - they will draw up the performance plan. This, in our view, is contrary to the requirements of the fourth chapter and paragraph 4.3.4.1 of Annex 1 to the European directive that we have already tabled in committee. In addition, in the same article the bill puts air traffic controllers in the same category as workers paid in other sectors, such as industry. I mean, it gives them bonuses based on production products. This article considers aircraft flying national airspace as products, ignoring that air traffic control of a country is finite and logistical infrastructures are required. The number of auditors is given, while aircraft traffic control procedures, for example the entry times of an aircraft on an approach runway, etc., are defined by EUROCONTROL, while they are single-determined for each national airspace with specific parameters. It is not possible, on the basis of the above, to carry out an airspace check on aircraft on the basis of logic, the more aircraft the better. This is not the case, in fact, in third - world countries. It is obvious here that the government with this bill is trying to link the wage costs of the industry with performance incentives to make wage reductions in order to secure resources for its staff under recommendation. As regards Article 52, which is the amendment of Law 4427/2016, ‘Recommendation of a legal person...’, etc., it is clear that the Government, in this article, abolishes the existing legal form of the UAA from a purely public service to a legal person governed by public law in order to privatise it in a second year. Looks clear. It is unprecedented that a public service, which concerns matters of safety and the application of air navigation rules, should be transformed into a legal person governed by public law and, where appropriate, later transferred to individuals. Furthermore, it is clear that the entire legislative approach of this draft law is to satisfy requests from private airlines, to improve implementation of routes and to lower charges for flights or other public charges. We have discussed the service with this sector, and we find its positions perfectly correct. As far as the two amendments are concerned, we consider that the safety of crews, passengers, ships and goods cannot be jeopardised. We shall therefore vote 'no' in this particular amendment. In the second amendment from the Ministry of Infrastructure, we assume that there has been a problem with a certain investment. We might be wrong. In other words, we assume that this amendment is photographic. If there is any other reason, which we do not understand, we would be very pleased to explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Syntrakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Madam President. We have nothing more to say about the draft law. I think that both the parliamentary representative and I have covered the whole of our party's views on this issue. But let me refer to the amendments. We have two ministerial amendments, and if I am not mistaken, two or three parliamentary amendments. We have tabled one on the paradox of teachers in the ADP notices. Let me first refer to the ministerial amendments which show what is the government's class mark, which are accepted if they are ministerial, in relation to the amendment tabled by the Communist Party of Greece, which is rejected. With regard to Amendment No 591, which deals with the regulation of water transport: we, Madam President, have voted against the specific water law, because the criterion for the construction of water waterways is not to cover some social needs, but the need to invest accumulated funds in this particular area, in order to keep gaining profits for individuals. It provides additional facilities for the creation and operation of waterways, overlooking safety issues which, in our view, do not ensure the lives of passengers and workers. And there is also Amendment No 583 concerning the extension of certificates of ships in the event of force majeure. We, Mr Minister, are asking you to withdraw it at the moment. This amendment is unacceptable. Unacceptable and dangerous. It also undermines maritime transport, undermines workers, undermines the people more globally using shipping. Next to all the other privileges you have given shipowners, within this pandemic and under pretext, such as reductions in organic compositions in ships, you are now coming with one amendment and you are deciding to extend the period of expiry of the safety certificates of ships which will have a direct effect on the reduction of inspections and controls on ships. Well, don't you know that many ships are unconscious, sapiocarava and circulate in the Greek seas and not just? Why do you not raise the question of controlling ships that are more than fifteen years old, but are you going from an extension of certification? Who are you serving in this case? Aren't you serving the shipowners, the shipowners? And we come to the amendment to see your class mark. It is not a revolutionary provision that we ask you to adopt. Mercy! It's about ten thousand teachers. These teachers were asked to apply for the classification procedure to fill vacant posts in primary and secondary education. In checking applications, it was found that a very large number of applicants - ten thousand per notice, two of them - for reasons of ambiguity, misinterpretation of the notices or because of technical problems which have arisen, did not co-exist with the paradox of the 3 euros that were demanded and thrown out of the process. Is that possible? And you don't accept it? What's the point? You should tell us right after that. You can tell us why you are not accepting this amendment! You are also not accepting another amendment tabled in relation to arrangements for teachers' ICPs. I do not understand why you should not accept these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The reason is now the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr Gokas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Madam President. I, too, think that we have actually said everything these days. All the opinions and arguments have been spoken. In short, I would like to say that despite the debate that has taken place, we have not been able to find any convergence with the Government and the Ministry on the crucial issues relating to the provision of competences in administrative and financial matters, both for operators and workers. We've been through this in detail. On regional authorities, I think we all understand that at any event, in whatever need of the passenger, there should be the possibility of addressing someone immediately. He can't at that time be on the runway, on the plane, on the airport's site in general, find a computer to file a complaint and solve his problem. It's very simple. Of course, always to the point of logic. We don't tell an airport, which might have a ride this week, to employ a lot of people. As a matter of logic, there must be regional authorities. There are large airports with many flights. There are few people who, as the Minister said, are electronically expressing a problem or complaint. Most people are looking for a solution at that time. In an exceptional event, violence and an accident, there must be an individual presence of the competent authority. The other issue concerns the performance plan. It is a key point, because that is where the powers and issues of economic operation of the two institutions are involved. One institution actually determines the amount to be made available. The other entity, the PSC, then finances the control body. The verifier shall determine the resources through the performance plan and the end-of-performance and the audited person shall then yield. That's not working. The resources, as provided for by EUROCONTROL, from the Modernisation and Development Fund for Airports, from departing passengers and from the state budget - I saw a correction in Article 71, left the 'costs', I do not know exactly what it means - must be attributed in relation to the work produced by everyone and the work it has to carry out, with the object. Resources are available for development in an organisation which is not related to development and infrastructure. We also did not receive any response these days, while we held so many meetings, about how many these resources are in total, what each body was receiving in accordance with the previous provisions, and what it will take with the new ones. All these issues have remained unanswered. It is therefore a great deal of money available and is placed under this performance plan procedure and on the revenues of the Civil Aviation Service and on the allowances and allowances of workers. The other point concerns the legal person governed by public law to which the PSC is transformed. That's not the right answer. I will not repeat what we have already said so many times. I think we have not understood the reason why it is being done and exactly what it is serving. Next it is to remain in the view that this state service, as was a state service in the narrow sense, should remain in this regime, especially for the area of Civil Aviation. We therefore have to be placed and placed not in segregation, but in arrangements and provisions that have a decisive influence on how to function and effectiveness in implementation, if applied to both entities. I will close with the amendments. With regard to the first amendment on the waterways, we have no objection. We had voted positively in the respective bill. I see they're temporary constructions. I assume, Minister, that they will actually be temporary rather than no more permanent. I understand the usefulness, service and facilitation they will give. I hope that they will facilitate more than one in relation to what has been said by a previous colleague. I don't want to have any doubts. It is a practical solution to be given in the form provided for. As far as the amendment to extend ship certificates is concerned, we could also be positive about it, since they deal with the regulation of sectors relating to inspections and government certificates - for example maritime safety, environmental protection, etc. - to avoid confusion and misinterpretation of application. In the previous arrangements there was this reference. Secondly, to substantiate the choice of a maximum period of four months to carry out checks and inspections and to issue certificates and other documents. Thirdly, to define the techniques of the remote inspection at least for the ship control sector by means of corresponding legislation and appropriate preparation for equipment, for training, for the certification of inspection personnel. With these conditions we could also be positive in this amendment. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u323	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Pappas, rapporteur of SYRIZA, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u324	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am starting with the amendments. The SYRIZA has first tabled an amendment concerning the appointment of a member of a LGD who is appointed following publication in FEK of their appointment and after judicial decisions. It is an amendment which could give a solution and we regret that it is not accepted. We are not negative on the amendment on water routes. We believe that the amendments we have tabled, and also the JRC, are identical on the issue of the paradox of the three euros for these teachers' awards, because they do not concern either their formal qualifications or their worth in order to carry out their duties and they fall within an issue that I think can be cured. With regard to the amendment by the Ministry of Shipping, we are negative in all respects because, on the occasion of the pandemic, we are giving extensions for checks on ships. And I understand that the seaships that are not on our territory cannot be controlled, but why can't they control what is in Greek ports? And what is this general definition of force majeure? By means of the coronary, can we invoke any problem and postpone control of the airship? He's obviously right to say that the coronary is eventually disease-free. So I think it is unacceptable and you should withdraw it, Minister, very soon. We asked questions, but we didn't get answers. There are two major issues that I would say to you that they have been raised by all opposition parties. I'm talking about reducing staff. You said to us: 'I'll talk to you later and I'll talk to you.' However, your Members spoke, your State Secretary spoke, but we did not receive a reply. We expect even a document in your final speech on staff reductions. Do not try to tell us that this independent authority is equivalent to the National Broadcasting Council again and can do its job from a computer to Athens. This argument, in my opinion, cannot be accepted in public. You are not honored to use it. We're addressing people intelligent. When the world travels there are hundreds of problems. Will an employee of the Civil Aviation Authority be solved by a computer in the center of Athens? Legal person governed by public law. I'm sorry, but we still haven't heard anything. We told you we had concerns and you told us it wasn't what we think it was. How, then, is it not what we think when there is no documentation in either the explanatory statement or, of course, in your positions? And you come here and tell us charges against SYRIZA for delays, which is an easy political escape, but take care of what you are tabling in the Minutes, because you have filed a document to substantiate that the Commission tells you that you have lost eight deadlines to make the fifteen airports compatible with the conditions. You lost eight.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u325	I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u326	Of course you can say it at last because four days we are discussing the bill and you are not saying it, you are saying other things. I think that today our parliamentary representative put his finger on the wound and it seems that you have been annoyed. Let's go a little on the subject of 'Aegean'. I want you to have it fresh before you get to the Step. I explained to you that there is a very suspicious sequence of events, because this company at the end of September admits that if the flight work is close to 20% it will have further damage from the derivatives. So when the agreement with the State is announced, it is beyond certain and through the admission of the company and through the IATA announcements that we will also have the fourth quarter of very low flight work - the second lockdown - and in 2021. So there's damage certainty. And you call on the Greek taxpayer to guarantee the loan they will use to enter with "his" money, because they are not theirs, it is money that comes from the guaranteed loan from the state and another 120 million that the Greek taxpayer will put in. And he'll get what? The right to give back money in the future. Let me ask you a simple question: If he continues to take insecure options or high-risk options, who will apologize? I shall tell you the following simple thing, and I shall conclude, Madam President, and thank you for the few seconds of extension. The members of the Management Board decided in 2019 to give themselves 2.5 million fees. In other words, we have given 120 million, and these gentlemen may decide to reward themselves for the good work and for the timely response to the phenomenon of the coronary. So LUFTHANSA, I say to you and repeat - and I am closing and going down from the Step - currently has 20% public participation in its share capital because it was supported by the German taxpayer. I do not understand what we are here, remembering the taxpayer every time he needs help and collectively guaranteeing the profits and the exploitation of such a vital country, I would say to you at the public service limits, which is carried out by concession. I would ask you very much to consider the matter. I repeat that SYRIZA will not stay in protests in the Greek Parliament. You will also fall on the European State Aid Regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u327	Thank you. The rapporteur, Mr Gikas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, Mr President. Today, too much has been said, too much has been out of the question. I'll start with something out of the question, but very important. Today, the European Parliament voted by a large majority to impose strict sanctions on Turkey by adopting an amendment from the Greek and Cypriot delegations at the initiative of Mr Maymarakis and Mr Christoforos. This is a very important development for the period that we are now spending. I shall refer to two, three points, although I am sure that the Minister will analyse in detail and answer everything that has been said. I cannot, however, draw any descriptions from Vice-Presidents and I read that 'with this bill there is a loss of security, a loss in public funds, a decrease in maintenance costs, etc.'. I think it's a risk that they really don't have a place in this bill. All this is because it is a requirement of the European Agency for the Safety of Flights and Civil Aviation. And you know well that this agency has the strictest standards and imposes them properly on safety. So all the dangers that have been heard that we are going from a relatively good level to a level worse are completely unfounded and wrong. The Civil Aviation Service is transformed into a legal person governed by public law and much has been said about it. The only reason that is being done is to gain the flexibility it needs in accordance with European standards. A colleague from the Communist Party - if I am not mistaken - said that officials are in danger of not getting the allowance or so, please forgive me if it is not exactly the same wording. I will tell you that tomorrow, 27-11, the benefits are credited to workers. I do not want to go into the details, although I have the evidence, because some of them are extremely high. So, tomorrow, 27-11 workers will get their benefits. I will say a word on the question of the effectiveness of the AMP's audit authority. At the moment, two thousand three hundred eighty-two employees are serving in the OSH. Of these, about seventy maybe fewer will go to the Civil Aviation Authority. If we maintain the same number of employees, the correspondence of auditors - audited is 1 auditor to 12.8 audited. So, given that there is the technology that exists, that there are business centres that we all know that the digital age we live in has enormous potential and can communicate with the region the number of seventy-two is perfectly reasonable and comes after the Ministry's cooperation with the European Agency. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this bill, which comes from our country's obligation towards European legislation, should be accepted from all sides. Even so, we have had the opportunity for all these four days to exchange arguments and, of course, for the citizens to draw their conclusions. As far as the amendments and the Ministry of Trade Shipping and the Ministry of Infrastructure and the others that have been put forward and accepted are concerned, we fully agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u329	Thank you, Mr. Gika. Before giving the floor to the Minister to close with his speech the current procedure will take the floor for three minutes, the Parliamentary Representative of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mr Christos Spirtzis. Here, Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u330	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will be very brief to help the Members of all the delegations, especially the New Democracy. First of all, I should like to say - and I would like to say everything - that the letters and documents tabled by Mr Karamanlis have been translated. If one does not know well English he can see that he has absolutely no mention of airport safety and all the other things he has said. You have the conflict of interest, you have the certification that had to be certified, a ministerial decision had to make in August 2019 not 2020. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, I am tabling the appointment of the chairman and members of the Committee on Accident Investigation. When did we change, Mr. Karamanlis? Because you said a few things and I don't know what happened to this committee. We changed, Mr Karamanlis, as you will see in FEK, February 15, 2019, the investigation committee. It was the previous administration of yours, because we respect the independent authorities. Unlike you who, in Article 74, the National Flight Coordination Authority are now abolishing it to put your own party parties in order not to say who. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thirdly, it's what you told us about the competitions. Kriton Arsenis said that before, I've just prepared a painting to see who's photographing. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I shall end, Mr President, with 'Aegean'. First Merkel and Symble must be dogmatic communists who took shares from LUFTHANSA and it is important that you go over them at the people's party, but get over this. You are due as an exception, Mr Karamanlis either now alone in your position or with Mr Hadjidakis to tell us the account, the fund, from privatisation, from the gift for the accuracy of "OLYMPIAKIS" to the late Vgenopoulos. And I'm not talking about the 40 million you gave him a gift from the barren lines. For example, you had the barren line of Athens - Paros 4.5 million a year, you continued it with the "OLYMPIAKI" of "AGEAN" after. But what did he give us? Did it give us better international links, privatization directly from Athens around the world, where there is at least a large number of Greeks of the Diaspora? She gave lower prices to foreign and internal flights for Greeks? Did he give what you think the market and competition regulate everything? Will you tell us what the "OLYMPIAKIS" workers who were loaded to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs cost the Greek people? Will you tell us what the property of "OLYMPIAKIS" cost the Greek people, such as the castle at "Eleftherios Venizelos" and where it is, what the citizens have been paying for years in a monopoly with very high flight tickets? You will tell us about the successes of this policy, so that we can reach agreement at some point and understand the citizens who are going to do so as well with this bill. I hope that, once again, we will be disproved through my heart, because if we and the other parties in the opposition are confirmed, the consequences for the country will be painful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u331	Mr Hetas was asked for the floor as a Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution and will have the same time, that is, two minutes. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u332	Mr President, thank you. I wouldn't take the floor, just when something good is going on, it's good to be happy for everyone for our homeland just doesn't make anyone smoke it. I would like to reinstate order a little, because today we have indeed had a very great victory, Mr President, in the European Parliament. We voted in favour of our amendments by our MEP, Mr Manolis Fragou, which called for the European Union to oppose in practice the recognition of the pseudo-cratic'marinetta' which Turkey wants to promote along with the allies, Azerbaijan, Pakistan, etc. These amendments bring the signature of Manolis Frangu, but it was a joint motion for a resolution on behalf of the ECR Group to the European Parliament. And because we heard about it a little while ago - without purpose, of course - the names of Members of the ruling party, I would like for the record and for the Minutes to know that the Greeks and Greeks are also doing so, that one, but they really say the MEP of the Greek Solution, a young man in the European Parliament is doing a very important job for our country as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, too. And now we will close today's long-time process with the placement of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Konstantinos Karamanlis. Minister, the word for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u334	Thank you very much, Mr President. As the debate on the bill closes today, let me make some conclusions about what was heard after four meetings in the Committee on Production and Trade and after today, as you said, Mr President, a very long debate that we had in plenary which was in complete contrast, Mr Poppa, with the urgent procedure with which you normally legislated, but also in this case, the separation of the PSC and the PSC in 2016, when you were back on the wall, is assumed, when the troika was pushing you and of course you voted for what you were voting on, which you did not apply, because you obviously understand the policy. First, is the separation finally operational? Of course it is. In fact, our country has been dramatically delayed in implementing its commitment, with full responsibility for SYRIZA, for an authority that will exercise objective and impartial control in the air transport and air navigation sectors. With Law 4427 - I will repeat it - we did not disagree on the substance, as it simply adopted the necessary and successful model given to many countries of the European Union. That is actually what is being introduced today. The problem of this law arose from the fact that this law was dysfunctional, which is why it has never been implemented. Therefore, the non-implementation of the separation over more than three years had led EASA, the European Aviation Safety Agency in the European Union, to initiate the process of downgrading all, and the twenty-three airports that were in the process and control of the OSH. The fact that our country on SYRIZA had led EASA to begin the downgrading process of the Greek airports is a fact and I have submitted all the letters, at the beginning of the meeting, for you all to have a full picture. Let me at this point explain some things to be understood not only to you, but also to those who are listening to us. What's EASA? EASA is the official European safety agency. What does that mean, practically? When EASA publishes a finding that the airports in the country do not meet certain certification or safety requirements, no airline will take the responsibility of flying at these airports. In our country, what was the matter, ladies and gentlemen? As no RCF was created, under the responsibility of SYRIZA, the safety of the take-off runways of the twenty-three PSC airports could not be certified because it was not possible for the PSC to assess the PSC. EASA was therefore preparing to formally announce that it does not guarantee the safety of flights at these airports. That's a reality. SYRIZA may not accept it and I understand that, but the evidence is clear. Do we realize what this would mean for the twenty-three airports? Do we understand the disastrous consequences of tourism? And because some in SYRIZA doubt what I'm saying, I've submitted as I said to you and I'll return all the letters from EASA. You'll give me a chance here to tell you that I'm sorry, but I think that SYRIZA and Mr. Spirjis have not understood or did what he doesn't understand. And I'm explaining. So from the outset, let's talk about everything here clearly. On 1 October EASA sent your chosen Mr. Lingerako, the letter I tabled in the Minutes. This letter was communicated to the Commission. From what is written in the letter, what did you not understand exactly? It tells you that for at least fifteen airports you have not complied with any timetable, you have not been carrying out any extension deadlines, and that the findings were in category D, i.e. before the downgrading. We therefore know that category D means that, if there is no compliance, problems of certification, standardisation and safety are therefore created. We have said that in committee four times. I'll see you around. We'll testify the documentaries as well. Here is to read them and see if the papers we deposit with Mr. Spirtzis has something to do with. It's just things. What else did EASA say in his letter? That he sends his letter to the Commission on whether Rule 22 of Regulation No 628 will be activated. So what else would you like to tell you to smash the alarm bell? It says to you: 'I inform the committee so that it can initiate the downgrading procedures'. That's what he said. We received this letter from EASA and the Commission because - listen! - the chosen man, Mr. Lingerakus hadn't given it to us! When we received the letter, we had no choice but to meet with the EASA representatives and find a solution to save all that you failed to do. So what did we do? That's what it sounds like. 'What have you done for so long?' These procedures took at least ten months. We have asked for an extension from DG MOVE and EASA so that we can make the MOU, which the previous government had signed, but had never implemented, to set up a committee to reach the result we are now, within the deadlines that the European Commission itself has given us. There is therefore no question of delay. The second point which has been raised and which has been answered by the committee will allow me, Mr President, to reply here as well. He says, at the beginning, we take her from four hundred eighty - seven persons to seventy - two. First of all, I would like to make a clarification, Mr Pappa, and I think you will agree with me. We do not take the beginning from four hundred eighty - seven persons to seventy - two. We take the beginning from scratch to a hundred seventy - two, because you had not implemented the law in your days. There was no committee, there was no APA, so we could know what we were saying and not say smart in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u335	And you don't lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u336	So we believe - and here is our disagreement and we can have such a disagreement - on a functioning, flexible and effective principle. You believe in the state of Patterulis and a hydrocephalic organism. That's your right. Let citizens judge what the right political choice is, which will be judged in the matter. Following the assessment, it was considered that the staffing of this new authority, with one of seventy - two staff, is absolutely sufficient. In contrast to the SYRIZA government, we did not want to serve micro-partner and trade union interests of employees paid two and three times more than the average of employees paid in other sectors of the public sector. Really, where do we live? We live in the 1960s? We arrived in 2020. We live in an electronic era. There is now an international debate on remote control towers. And you're telling us about the need for a giant principle? So you are obsessed with the service of your friends trade unionists, where all these issues begin and end up in their rewards. I repeat, so that no misunderstanding arises. It is a good thing that the PSC officials are taking the benefits from EUROCONTROL, contrary to what is happening to the rest of the public. We, too, took a step further. For the first time we told them that we would give them more money and link their performance to give them a productivity premium of 9 million. However, we will not sacrifice, ladies and gentlemen, the country's development in the field of air transport for the sake of small and medium-sized carriers. Because, you know, here's the warning difference. Our clients on our side are not trade unionists. Our customers are our passengers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u337	Are the interests?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u338	Mr. Poppa, the interests are your own customers, and you especially don't talk about interests. You don't talk. Don't cause.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u339	Will you tell me not to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u340	So we said that we see the public interest, the good of air navigation, the good of passengers and the good of the Greek economy. Because Mr Pope - and quite rightly so - told me at some point 'that your study was based on', I am presenting in the Minutes the working group report with all the accompanying tables. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis submits the abovementioned document for the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] I would also like, since Mr Spirtzis is here, and he so much likes to testify in the Minutes, to give us your own study where you concluded that he should not go to four hundred eighty people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u341	Of course, I'm happy. If you asked me earlier, we'd bring it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u342	There is no, Mr. Spirtzi, unfortunately. If you want, so you don't get any prints, I'll come and get it. As far as I know, the photocopies in Parliament are free of charge, Mr Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u343	We're shooting them in our office so we don't charge the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u344	Oh, good. Now, I'm going to stand by something else that shows once again the attempt to deceive, which SYRIZA is doing with very great mathematics. You told us what was happening in France. Right? Good! So he tells us, Mr. Spirtzis and SYRIZA that "the separation that we made as the Hellenic Republic with a government of SYRIZA in 2016 followed the example of France". That's the argument. What else are we gonna hear, really? Listen, ladies and gentlemen. So since we are talking about France, we are going to see what is happening in France and I will submit to the minutes the official documents of how this system works in France. Do you know how many airline units France has? We've got a hundred sixty. France has a thousand seven hundred and thirty-six units. Eight hundred and thirty one public and private airports plus nine hundred five helmets. I would like to present you in the Minutes from the French official report, to read it, Mr Spirtzi, so that you do not take any photocopies. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis submits the abovementioned document for the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] Do you know what their field of responsibility is? If you think their field of responsibility is only France, you're wrong. They also have offshore lands, French Polynesia, New Caledonia. You know, ladies and gentlemen, and I refer to you too, Mr Arsenis, why you have mentioned this many times as an argument - what is the French AAA having staff? Thousands of fifty people for a thousand seven hundred and thirty-six units. And how many people does French AAA have for the oversight at airports, like airports? Eighty percent, eighty-four. The entire AOC of France operates with eighty-four airports at airports. That's France's model, Mr. Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u345	That's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u346	Read it. If I'm wrong, I'd be very happy to withdraw. I mentioned these, so that we can all understand how easy and - let me say - how comely these arguments are at times. Speaking of airports, let's go to the third issue, the issue of security. I said that to the committee. I think it is incomprehensible that we should sit in Parliament and try to create fears where there are no documents and all correspondence are known and shown that there would be security issues if there were no separation. We were told by some of our anti-population colleagues - fortunately SYRIZA crippled it, but they took it back - that we are going to privatise the FIR, that we are going to privatise the APA, because it is a legal person governed by public law. I told you in committee why we are making AAA a legal person governed by public law. We're doing the ADP for the sake of transparency, so that it has balance sheets. Can I ask you something? I imagine that with what you say, namely that the NPT is in danger of privatising it. The Athens Academy, which is a legal entity governed by public law, then, is at risk by EOF, EAW, university institutions and hospitals of the country. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Is that what you're telling us? I'm sorry, but that doesn't stand up to any, but no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We have explained why there is no need to be from one airport to every airport. I would also like to inform you that air navigation control at European Union level is carried out by two bodies: EUROCONTROL, on the control of fees and EASA, on safety issues. And that is what they do far away, the first from Brussels and the second from Cologne. Therefore, on the basis of the arguments that have been put forward, because they do not have representation at airports throughout the country, air navigation in Europe should have collapsed. To close the conversation once and for all, security issues don't exist in the FIR either. There are no such issues. I am going to go to the fourth theme of these so-called 'photographic' provisions. In fact, it was heard by the lips of a SYRIZA MEP, who also smacked something for EPE and for the right to rectify the right. See, when we don't have any arguments what we're doing? We are resorting to the past, and we are creating 'demons'. That's what SYRIZA has done for a lifetime. That's what it does now. Really, "at the house of the hanged man are we talking about rope"? What "photograph" are you talking about, you who have chosen to make the commander of the APM? Where did you block the procedure for the commander of the PSC so that the PSC process can be completed first? That you didn't even predict knowledge of a foreign language, why didn't your adorable know? I think it is a little exaggerated to talk about photographic devices. In fact, Mr. Spirjis also made another point, which shows that although he has experienced a Minister, he does not know very well about a number of issues. Here's what Mr. Spirtz told committee, we should go, he says, to the prosecutor to move legally and disciplinaryly against the committee which, as he was due, implemented Article 7 of d.d.84. How is it possible to do this after it was voted on? I should like to close, Mr President, on the subject of AEGEAN, because it has dealt with this issue very much both with the committee and with the plenary. In fact, we support AEGEAN with 120 million. You see, we are not political crooks, to say, we sign the concession of the fourteen airports to the "FRAPORT" and delay two years after we do our revolutionary gymnastics.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u347	Oh, come on. For the "baker" now...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u348	Which "baker"? Does it bother you? You know, Mr. Pappa, in this Chamber you may not like what I say, but you will hear it. I listened very carefully and did not interrupt anyone. We are, therefore, supporting a sum of much less than 32 billion that all the other European companies will receive together. In fact, we have said so in committee, and it has been written, we also provide for a private contribution of half, that is, 60 million, which has not been done anywhere else in Europe, except Austria, where, of course, the LUFTHANSA and the State of Germany pays the money. So here you say to us 'how you safeguard the interests of the public.' Is that a question? Right? Good. We support a big company, but we are first of all clear that our decision is to support this sector as a whole. And we do not only support 'AEGEAN'. We support the other companies, such as SKY EXPRESS, which has recently made a significant investment in the area, and we support the 'FRAPORT' as well as the 'AIA' and we support the air transport industry as a whole. In other words, we support 12 000 workers, we support the largest industry in our country that is tourism. What do you want us to do? Give up on their luck? I don't think that serves the public interest. I would also like to speak a little - it is a technical issue - on the Warrants issue, because I think it should be understood. This is where Mr. Pappas has another approach. And I'll try as simple as I can explain exactly what the government does. Warrants is a derivative that gives the holder the right, i.e. to the Greek State, to buy or sell the equity at a specific price before the maturity. In other words, warrants allow the holder to exercise when he decides, over a period of time, his right to shares, when, that is, the price of the share would have increased. And he doesn't take the risk of being directly involved by taking stocks. So I explained to you that this reduces the risk of the Greek public. I have told you and I have told you examples, Portugal is closer, if you like, with the Greek reality, where one company took 1.1 billion. I was wrong before. I said 1.3 billion. The Portuguese air services received 1,1 billion from the Portuguese State. Here, then, we are making part of state aid, part of capital increase. So, what do we say? We say they come in private and put their hand in the pocket, put 60 million. This is also a compatible State aid because it is the lightest form of State aid that has been granted. I am ending with a general comment, Mr President, and I say that many times when I am in this Chamber, I see that our political life is really entangled in meaningless political confrontations, in an effort to demonstrate, especially the left parties, a virtual spaghetti, that everything is privatized and everything is in red. You are investing in the murder pandemic, for example, as a counterpopulation. You do, in my view, the most dangerous for the political system. You are carved in the worsening of the pandemic and more dead - they are even your officials - while all of Europe is trying to deal with this unprecedented pandemic. You are colouring a number of issues that you must not color politically, and ultimately you do not consent to specific policies for which, like this bill, you should consent, as I have said, at least at the outset. Because we are actually applying what you have voted on, but you never apply. To close, I want to say something else. The New Democracy fully respects the supervisory role that the State must have. Don't talk to us about neoliberalism. Don't speak SYRIZA, who confiscated all the property of the public for ninety years in the superstate. The SYRIZA who privatised TRAINOSE, as it was privatised. Don't talk about privatizations, when it took you two years, with soul pain, to do what you had to do since 2015. We believe that. What you're doing is political pirouettes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u349	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u350	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u351	Mr President, this is not the case!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u352	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is finalised: 'Recommendation, operation and responsibilities of the Civil Aviation Authority, regulation of civil aviation matters and other provisions of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, seventy-five articles, two amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check or revise it by the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u353	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u354	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u355	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘Recommendation, operation and responsibilities of the Civil Aviation Authority, regulation of civil aviation issues and other provisions of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport’ has been accepted, in a single discussion, in principle of the articles and the whole of the articles and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u356	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u357	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-26-S1-commons.u358	With the consent of this House at 18.08 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, November 27, 2020 at 9 a.m., on the subject of Parliament's work, Parliament's scrutiny: topical questions.
