ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 11-2-2020 authorisation, the minutes of the EKZ Bureau, on Tuesday, 11 February 2020, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law, were ratified by the Bureau of the Minamata Convention on Mercury.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Thursday 13 February 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 479/4-2-2020 by the Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Arcadia of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Addressing the unfavourable treatment of graduates of the Department of Music Studies of the Ionian University, in view of AC/2019's notice". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 495/11/2020 by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "The distinction to be made between pensions for insured persons in accordance with Law No.4387/2016." 3. The question by number 493/10-2-2020 of the Greek Parliamentary of State, Mr. Vassiliardos, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Revenge of damages for the deselgate scandal'. B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Rodopi of Change Movement Ilhan Ahmet to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Restoration of injustices for compensation from the Political Planning of Extended Needs for tobacco producers - cotton producers in the Regional Unit of Rhodope affected by diseases in 2018’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The need to re-issue an additional invitation to cover organic positions in local government agencies (OTAs) 1 degree". 3. The question by number 484/7-2-2020, by MP Larissa of the Change Movement, Evangelia Lykoulis, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Let the traditional two-day sectarians be stopped being treated as criminals." 4. The Question No 500/11/2020 by Mr Georgios Gerapititi I Athens, Aggelikos Adamopoulos to the Minister of State, Georgios Gerapititi, on the subject: "Micro-retired pensioners are treated unequally in relation to uninsured/insured HEIs". 5. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "Inadmissible, irrevocable and illegal the decision not to apply the legislation for the payment of reduced contributions for one year from insured persons who have a child." 6. The 501/11/2020 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis, Minister of State, Georgios Gerapetritis, on the subject: "Support of government coordination initiatives on the rights of HEIs". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 2008/19-11-2019 question by MP Larisa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Vassilis Kossilis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Investing in pharmaceutical and industrial cannabis. Support for primary sector and processing’. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few announcements. First, the Standing Committee on Social Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Definition of the 3-2-20 individual Donation Convention - Project I and its 3-2-2020 amending Convention by 3-6-2019 individual Donation Convention - Project VI between the Foundation "Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation" and the Greek State for the strengthening and upgrading of health infrastructure". The Member of Parliament, Mr George Kamines, also calls for a short-day absence from abroad on 17 and 18 February 2020. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Finally, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-six students and students and four educational attendants from the 10th Haidari Municipal School. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Structuring it from 24-12-2019 B.C. ‘Existent arrangements to increase the amount of the social dividend for 2019, to extend the extrajudicial settlement mechanism and to extend the deadline for the abolition of mortgages and real estate offices’ (A'212) and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 6 February 2020 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u4	The House therefore agreed. The rapporteur of the New Democracy Member, Mr Athanasios Kavada, has the floor for 15 minutes. I would ask that we open up the registration system for Members of Parliament, which, as you know, closes after the second rapporteur. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today I have the honour to recommend to Parliament the act of legislative content signed on 24 December 2019, which includes, among other things, important arrangements for the extrajudicial compromise, social dividends, real estate offices and additional serious provisions for the Greek Air Industry and the financial sector. The first article of the Act of Legislative content increased from EUR 175 million to EUR 215 million the amount distributed as a social dividend for 2019. The aim of this increase was for the government to respond to the need to support all the beneficiaries of the social dividend, who, with this additional amount of EUR 40 million, amounted to about one million. The original programming was intended to help with a EUR 500 aid for the weakest social groups, i.e. two hundred fifty thousand, about, households. The first priority was to strengthen the long-term unemployed, the multitude of families and families with disabilities, of course taking into account specific income criteria. Following the introduction of the dividend and the initiation of the reporting procedure, it was found necessary to include additional households meeting the necessary social and economic criteria. The government has shown instant reflexes and has created the necessary financial space to allow other vulnerable households to cover. Thus, the legislative act increased the distributed dividend by EUR 40 million and the households entitled to it by about fifty thousand. These reflexes and flexibility some called "retreading" were the same who accused the New Democracy of having no social policy, because the social dividend we distributed was lower than the previous years. Those who said that were those who took care to share supposedly a thirteenth pension on the eve of the elections. They received 970 million from the budget and shared it in May 2019, a sum that of course was missing from the new government and the distribution of the dividend. However, gentlemen, do you know what people used to say about this figurative pension? "Election allowance" because the pensioners who received the special allowance knew that they did not receive a third pension. What did they actually take in May 2019? A pension that supplemented their pension. The less pension, the greater the allowance and vice versa. That was not a third pension. That's why retired people went to the polling centres after receiving the election allowance and voted for New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, we can discuss the feasibility of benefits. We can also discuss the feasibility of overcrowding, which is what point and then become anti-developmental. This government is only seven months behind the wheel and, as our ideology and our principles dictate, we are looking for those alternative policies, which will not just protect vulnerable groups, but will take them out of the social and economic margins. The fact is that at the moment, after ten years of economic crisis, there are still parts of the Greek society that need immediate, tangible assistance and the government, in response to this need, did what it had to do, increasing the amount of social dividend for 2019. The second provision of the legislative act is that the extrajudicial mechanism should be extended. There is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that an extrajudicial mechanism was necessary. The mistake was that it was introduced with two whole years' delay and was erroneously introduced. The business world, already hit by the crisis and the lack of liquidity, suffered under the burden of arrogant debts, which it could no longer serve. In 2017, ninety businesses were closed every day due to debts and a lack of liquidity. Red loans were 1.5 billion and 5 billion outstanding. It was necessary to facilitate the regulation of debts, since it would be a real facility. The reality is that the ex-judicial mechanism of 2017 has failed miserably, taking thousands more businesses with it and jeopardising even the financial system, due to the huge volume of red loans accumulated. And then we had predicted that instead of facilitating the negotiation of debtors and creditors, it would make them difficult and delay them. All of this would have been avoided if the government at the time had adopted our proposals. Our forecasts have been confirmed, which is why you have had to bring changes, but you have also had to bring improvements to the regulation of the hundred and twenty instalments, which ultimately gave the debtors a breath. In any case, we are working on the basis of a European directive on the basis of which there is a new overall framework for the regulation of the debts of natural and legal persons. But until then the market cannot wait. Therefore, the Government, by means of the Act of Legislation, extends the existing mechanism until 30 April 2020. Finally, the Act of Legislative content extends by twenty-four months the deadline for the abolition of paid and unpaid mortgages and various real estate offices throughout the territory which would have to cease their operation on 17 January 2020. Why did he need this setup? Because since January 2018, when SYRIZA voted for n.4512, he has done absolutely nothing to implement what was foreseen by his provisions. The aim of the law was to establish an integrated regional structure supporting the operation of the national property register. The mortgages throughout the country and the real estate offices of Rhodes, Kos - Leros, Thessaloniki and Piraeus had to give their place in twenty-four months after the law was passed to the seventeen real estate offices and their seventy-five branches. Do you know how many real estate offices and shops were opened in these two years? Zero offices and two branches until September 2019. Since September 2019, when the new administration of the "Greek Stock Exchange S.A." has already opened an office in western Macedonia, based in Kozani, and there are now five branches in Veroia, Karditsa, Polygyros, Preveza and my region of Lefkada. This rate gives us the certainty that within the next two years we will have fully achieved the goal, and so we will have reduced a huge cost to the public for the operation of the three hundred ninety mortgages, but also the Land register will have a proper regional network of services. In the second part of the bill, and in particular in Article 2, the provisions governing the issues of the Construction Cooperative of Permanent Officials of the Hellenic Army, the OOMAGES and in particular, are amended until 31-12-2020, and its supervision at the Ministry of National Defence is restored until 31-12-20. Because it is difficult for Members to decipher this provision, I am explaining it. In Malesina there is the settlement of UCLAF in which four thousand families have property. The settlement shall be managed by the management board of the UCLAF, which shall be made up of military. That is why as a cooperative it is entirely subject to the Ministry of National Defence. With Law 4030/2011, the cooperative had to pass from 1-1-2020 to the Ministry of Finance. But the settlement was faced with a huge problem with the management of water supply, which the municipality of Locre refused to take over. In order to solve the problem, it took two extensions of the mandate of the UCLAF military board. That is why there is a need for a small extension so that the UCLAF remains under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of National Defence. The deadline is thus extended until 31/12-2020. After this deadline, the UCLAF will normally pass to the Ministry of Finance and elect a new management and supervisory board. Meanwhile, there is optimism that a solution has been given to the problem of water supply in the village, as the municipality has now agreed to take responsibility. Article 3 provides for the exemption for another year, until 31 December 2020, of the company "Greek Air Industry S.A." from the obligation to produce proof of insurance and tax information. This does not mean that the company has no insurance and tax information, but that it will not be required to produce every time it makes a transaction with the State. You are aware, ladies and gentlemen, that this will make it very easy for the company, since, if there were no relevant care, every time it issued an invoice to be paid by the public for its services, it should be spent in endless bureaucratic procedures. Article 4 amends Article 39 of L.4370/2016 for the interest rate at which the forward deposits held by the Deposit Guarantee Fund, CECF, to credit institutions are used. This is, in fact, a provision that comes to safeguard the interests of the public, as the CECF guaranteed will not lose money when it is dismantled the amounts deposited with the banks. You'll tell me: How can you lose money from deposits? It is because the interest rate at which the deposits of the EKE are held varies according to the interest rate on the Greek government bonds of three months. This interest rate, as you know, after the upward course of the Greek economy, has now been formed into a negative percentage. Thus, in the event of a dislocation, the CEEC would lose money. This arrangement therefore comes about, which provides that the interest rate may be at least zero and in no case negative. Of course, if the interest rate of interest rates is positive, it will also be positive for the deposits of the CECF. Finally, Article 5 concerns the arrangements for the special liquidation of credit institutions. As you know, a credit institution cannot be declared bankrupt but is compulsory under special liquidation. The law provides for something reasonable. If a bank breaks down or breaks down a branch and waives its authorisation as a bank, it shall not be obliged to enter into a special liquidation arrangement. In other words, since the fragmented sector is no longer a bank, there will be no special clearer in place, provided that the remaining part does not have any assets to make this special scheme compulsory. This is a provision of benefit to the banking system, which is in agreement with the competent institutions, i.e. the single supervisory body and the Bank of Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the mistaken idea that the state cannot at the same time support the private sector and protect the socially weak. This concept is cultivated by those who claim for themselves the exclusiveity of social policy. But the New Democracy does not deliver it to anyone. As the only expressor of social liberalism in the Greek Parliament, it will defend everything that makes up a strong development economy: private initiative, entrepreneurship and investment, but also the social state, social justice and social cohesion: each one of these components is necessary to prosper indicators and people. The urgent arrangements brought about by the legislative act that we are discussing today meet the social needs, the needs that have been raised in the time of the crisis, and which, at the dawn of a new era for the country, need to be taken care of by the state. These measures and many even with a developmental and social nature already make up and make up for the next few years that policy that will restore the country and the Greeks to orbit progress and prosperity. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of the bill and to support, in future, the policies of development and social peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u6	We continue with the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Miltiades Hatzigiannakis, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. There is a possibility that I will need your tolerance, because while we were about to talk about today's legislative act, not one or two amendments were tabled last night, but nine, of particular interest, with too many articles. A great deal will be said, of course, by the relevant sector leaders of our party. But for some of them, and especially for the last amendment, the one for LARCO, and because of my own constituency, which is directly concerned with Evia, I have to make a special mention, Mr President. It's all in the bags today. We have amendments from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of the Environment. Almost all of the Ministerial Council can come by today or have sent amendments last night. We've been up late, but at least some things need to be put here. Obviously these rules of good legislation are within the framework of the state of staff and regularity. I do not understand how we will be discussing today and how many amendments so many. But let's take them one by one. I would first like to refer to the act of legislation on which we have mainly come to discuss, which has been consulted and on which the parliamentary procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure has been followed and then we will talk about the amendments. In the first article of the first section, we are talking about increasing the social dividend by EUR 40 million, that is, from the EUR 175 million, Minister, which you had predicted, to the EUR 215 million. Obviously we welcome the increase and welcome you once again in the policy of benefits and allowances, the one that you so much had run out of election, but also in your first period of governance, saying that these are counterproductive and anti-developmental logics that keep the country and the people behind. Benefits and benefits, of course, are essential State intervention in combating social inequalities. There are obviously in all democratic countries, especially Europe, and without these tools there can be no equality society. I would like to remind you, despite what has been said by the rapporteur of the New Democracy, that despite the adverse circumstances, the memorial conditions and difficulties, the SYRIZA Government has allocated for three consecutive years a social dividend. In fact, in 2018, we managed to provide 780 million for more than three million fellow citizens. It is false what you are saying, that you supposedly exhausted the financial area by providing the thirteenth pension and did not have another social dividend. It is your political choice to allocate this budget space to those who have high incomes and not to our vulnerable economic fellow citizens. You have reduced the budget space and preferred to distribute 80% of the surplus, which you found in the state funds, for the reduction of HISPI, for the high incomes and for the reductions in taxation that concern very few, unfortunately. Ultimately, the social dividend you shared relates to only two hundred and fifty with thousands of families, that is, one out of four compared to the benefiting twelve months ago. And the criteria you set were very strict leaving not only pensioners but also other sensitive social groups. The result of your decision has shown, in the reverse, the development dimension of the benefits. Every euro given by the State is obviously not in the pockets of taxpayers, but it covers needs that each taxpayer redistributes on the market. This year, therefore, when you cut by about 600 million the social dividend, there was a drop in the turnover in the festive market according to all the trade associations in the country. And, unfortunately, to too many, it was a huge drop in the turnover. Obviously, we welcome the fact that even at the last minute you have increased the amount distributed. However, it is unfortunately a conscious choice that you do not rely, to the extent that you need, on the weak financially. Now let's go to article two. The four-month extension of the extrajudicial regulation mechanism is of course positive. What concerns us, of course, is what will happen after 30 April. For the next day, therefore, the relevant public positions of your top minister, the Minister of Development, leave no room for misinterpretation. Next May comes the wave of auctions - it is obvious - and any government references to this period are intended either to take good care of the Greek people and to limit the reactions, or any improvement, to appear as a gift from heaven. Tactical, now, that's common. We've learned her. We are partly aware of the strategy of selling red loans from the banks. What we cannot understand is why you have chosen procedures from which the necessary conditions of transparency and protection of the weak citizens are lacking. Both the plan 'HRAKLIS', which you have voted on and the new bankruptcy code we hear you are preparing, contain no provision for protecting the weak citizens, especially the first residence, either in general or in too many of our compatriots who after the crisis have been found, as you can see, in a bad economic position. It is visible that the institutional framework you are going to create, leave thousands of homeless and operate against any development policy. And do not invoke, Minister, that we have done nothing to protect the first home and that four and a half years we have not legislated, because the conditions are obviously completely different within the memoranda which we had to manage and completely different from August when we came out. Obviously, we had to wait until April for the assessment to be based on the Greek economy and to come out on the markets successfully. And that's what we did. And obviously now, the country - and not you - enjoys these policies that we have followed and delivered to you, and we can now discuss the good interest rates with which we are lending for the fifteen years and all the rest. So, it is quite different, and quite differently you can negotiate with our partners too, with an institutional framework that protects some citizens. And it is also not true that the first residence is not protected anywhere. There may be no specific institutional framework within the European Union, but there is also a guaranteed right in countries such as Norway. We, as SYRIZA, say 'yes' in a elected institutional framework which will enable banks to get rid of a very important part of red loans, but that with certain basic conditions: Firstly, with full transparency, as I said before, we have not received any specific response from the Government and the Ministry. Secondly, with development care, as you have not yet established any development strategy. Both the development law, which you voted on, and the plan 'HERAKLIS', are implemented without any compass. Thirdly, with the obligation of the banks to finance the Greek economy with the amounts they will save. That's obvious. The banks won't win it again and they won't throw anything into the Greek economy. That makes no sense. Fourthly, with the obligation of banks or managers of the loans to give preference to borrowers for the acquisition or adjustment of their debt liabilities at the same price or at an increased price. It's obvious that the expenses must come in. And finally, obviously, with the protection of the first residence of our very vulnerable economic fellow citizens. With that data we can discuss. I wish we could disprove, but your initiatives so far only ensure that they are a coming storm of bankruptcy, evictions and auctions. The third article of the ratification of the legislative act provides for the extension of the validity of the mortgages for two more years as the ceremonies are not ready. Obviously, we agree that this extension is necessary. However, it touches on the limits of amnesia policy to blame you of the New Democracy on our government's responsibility for this delay. The Land register is one of the most painful stories of the Greek state. Its recommendation was foreseen since 1998 and it spent two decades of improper, lost funds from the European Union and Prosecutors of Corruption - then they were not corruption, they were simply prosecutors who had entered these cases - by 2018 our government to create the legislative framework for a European, modern, transparent and user-friendly public asset tool for private and public property. Until then, we have witnessed a situation where competitions came and provided funds from the European Union, and we have never seen a real estate register. We received a country with a Stock Exchange of less than 25% and no forest maps at all, and we handed you a Stock Exchange full of 70% and posted the forest maps almost throughout the country. We are therefore not loaf-eaters, ladies and gentlemen of the Government of New Democracy. We will support the proposal to extend the validity of the operation, but we cannot hear extreme things. For the rest, section 2 of the Act of Legislative Action, we have talked about it. In principle, we have no objections. They are provisions which I hope will be sufficient for the cooperative to be a year, because it is a case that it is taking in time. Obviously, we are in favour of interest rates. We shall now proceed to the amendments, of course. In the first place, we have no objections. It's for Samaria's gorge. They'll tell the people in charge. Mr Vitsas will be placed in the second for the Scaramaga shipyards, which had taken over this case. In the third amendment by the Ministry of Finance, some provisions are obviously in a positive direction. We have, however, Article 4, which is, in fact, a provision of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs for the port agencies and for all interventions. Our relevant departments and Mr Santorinis will be mentioned more closely. But, Minister, I think that 5%, the change you have made - let me not go to the other details - in the fees for compensation, mathematically will lead to almost all the port agencies being closed down. We do not think it is possible to put a ceiling on the negotiation. Let this emerge from the negotiation that either the GOI will make, or get out of the plans that will be drawn up. Why put a ceiling on the reward fee so that you can financially strangle the Port Agency? And on the issue of AIA, we believe that, as you are doing, Mr Minister, the provision leaves too many shadows on the transparency of choices made internally, how the heads of government are chosen. As this amendment has come, we ask you to look at it again. This is not an ending state. When you choose to be circumvented in this way the provisions of the budget code and there is another God for the ADP, quite different and in reality the commander of the ADP to determine the conditions for the promotion or movement of his employees, we do not consider that there is the necessary transparency that the final state must possess, which you say from the very beginning that you want to establish. In the other amendments I have no important things to say. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two more minutes, Mr. President. I shall end with the amendment on 'LARCO'. Minister, you know her very well. You're from the area. You've been working on it. We met in Larymna, at the conference held by the workers of Larco. It is a company exclusively exporting, exporting around 300,000 000 and manages - as you understand - a very important part of the country's mineral wealth. It extracts and processs all iron, nickel and production is about 90% of European Union - not in Europe, because Russia has a large part - while in the mines of 'LARCO' it is now proven that there are very large quantities of cobalt, critical material for the development of electric accumulators, batteries, where you know very well that the world, but especially the European market, will invest in many years to come - that is all the European Union's policy by 2030 - on carbon. However, they are quantities which unfortunately fail to exploit LARCO because of the depreciation you have condemned. This is a business that, with your policies at least a decade ago, you brought it to the edge of the cliff - especially the governments of the New Democracy, because I will be clear - now you are not even bringing back a haircut, which we thought you would bring back and which you had produced in 2014 and which was approved by the European Commission. This plan had, of course, been rejected unanimously by the Board of Directors of LARCO, by the Board of Directors, i.e., which you had appointed, because, as the company said at the time, in 2014, in its decision, ‘it is not a resolution plan, it is a bankruptcy plan for the company’. That's more like the day you bring in. The recipe is known. First the Prime Minister himself just before the elections, and then the Minister for the Environment publicly smuggled it and spoke of supposedly "high-paid drones" paid by the Greek people. That is what the Greek people have heard, and that is what the Greek people think, that there are some high-wage drones in Larco, who are paid for with 4,000 and 5,000 euros. That's what they hear. The truth is, the only ones who have total wages in this company are very few relatives and friends of yours - I don't speak personally. I mean the statemen, the ministers, the Members of the New Democracy - many of whom are seconded. Apparently, they have nothing to do with the company operationally. On the other hand, the remaining workers work with net wages - net, not mixed - from EUR 800 with a ten-year experience of up to EUR 1,600 for those who have over thirty years and, in mines and factory conditions, which can only be described as Dahow. That's the nickname, Minister. You know that better than I do. Dachau's called it the Larymna factory. The conditions are bad. We are talking about workers now who have only been lamented by three colleagues in the last four months. We had three deadly, two in Phthytida and one in Evia in the last four months, and in the fifty years of its operation it has mourned over seventy dead. So these are the privileged drones for which the public has not given any euros. Even the condemnation of State aid was for a loan guarantee received by LARCO - it was not for funding - and, unfortunately, the HIADEDA itself, which was the largest shareholder with 55%, sent to the Competition Committee, condemned, did not support the company's positions. If possible the guarantees of the Greek State - which the Greek State has given to God, especially in the last decade and for too many! - to be considered State aid without making money out of the state budget and subsidizing a company. We have given a loan guarantee, which the company has been charged and has not paid the Greek State. In 2006, with the unexplained and unprecedented doubling - again with a New Democracy Government - that paid to PPC, you made LARCO industry the highest energy cost in Europe and thus uncompetitive and thus accumulated a great debt to PPC of 340 million. Only in 2017, we as government agreed to a debt regulation and debt reduction agreement below half the price of the kilowatt. From the 78 euros he had gone, we reduced it to 35 euros. The 2006 criminal decision to sell a quantity of nickel at the same time as signing risk compensation contracts, the so-called hedging, is estimated to have damaged the company by EUR 500 million. They have neither been responsible nor sought for their actions. I told you about state aid. So today you are bringing us an amendment and you are ultimatuming to a thousand two hundred workers in five prefectures in Greece - Evia, Boeotia, mainly Fithiotida, Kastoria and Kozani - and over ten thousand people working with the operation exclusively. They're estimated at about 12 thousand ATMs. I say it's an exaggeration of what the workers say, but it's a terrible number. Minister, you know very well that with this project, which, unfortunately, you are bringing in without consultation with the workers and an amendment, and there should be special legislation and it should be discussed first with the workers and, of course, with all the bodies and parties, you put it in a special liquidation. You are giving a very narrow margin of time - twelve plus six months - to sell 75% of its assets. If you think that's possible, I wish it was! Or he's going bankrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u8	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u9	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you. So we give the company 35 million to be able to operate these twelve plus six months in order to meet its operating needs, reduce wage costs in general - the special liquidator will generally reduce wage costs - and says in the law for the high-paid, who are high-paid and who are not. How this is to be determined, it does not result from anywhere. What I see is not trying to find a strategic investor. It is sadly - and I hope we will be disproved - the tombstone of LARCO and the fact that the country's mineral wealth will not become a mess. At least make use of it. We would be positive - if you would invite us to discuss - a real resolution plan, to discuss how this mining, which is so important for the national economy, a company and so many thousands of people will be guaranteed by collective labour agreements, with labour rights, which cannot be affected...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u10	Hang up, please. You've done it. Don't repeat yourself. You've taken seven minutes longer, not two.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u11	...and without, obviously, closing down with at least a ten-year program of the company. Unfortunately, this is not what we see. We see the tombstone. I wish in a year that we would not be here to discuss how many areas have been devastated in these prefectures. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, I would like to speak very little.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u13	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u14	I listened carefully to my colleague. I would like to ask you, during the sitting, to present us with your draft for LARCO.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u15	Why do you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u16	Let's see what the government had planned until 7 July, the alternative proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u17	If it had.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u18	If it had. I know he didn't. If there was a plan, we'd have it. But I am waiting for the plan to be submitted specifically in writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u19	You're a government, you're not opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u20	We didn't turn it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u21	The plan to see.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u22	Calm down, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, since they have previously participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation, twenty-six students and students and an educational attendant from the 10th Municipal School of Kallithea. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Georgios Arvanitidis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for 15 minutes. Please also close the registration system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are supposed to discuss today the ratification of an act of legislation that the government was forced to adopt on Christmas with a closed Parliament in order to regulate key two issues: the increase of the social dividend for 2019 and the extension of the protection of first residence by 30 April 2020. Okay, all that makes sense. However, this is a PPP which started with four overall articles, then became a draft law by the Treasury with four other articles and other provisions, to add only last night eight plus one, that is, nine, delayed amendments, with another sixteen and more articles. And, of course, I don't know how much you'll bring for discussion by the end. Shouldn't we stop this story of regularity, not laughing at each other? Because government and regularity are incompatible now. Of course, yesterday's two examples, which I must refer to, confirm my claim. You have brought no warning at all about another night's amendment, by which you had imposed a judicial mark on all actions discussed in the multi-judicial prefectures, on the presumption that the imposition of heavy financial burdens on citizens' access to justice is the effective way of dismantling the courts. Yesterday the answer came from justice that judged the anti-constitutional arrangement. You will now come with another amendment at the last minute to correct what you have brought at the last minute. This is yesterday's development. The second example. You issued a land-order MAGP yesterday on the islands to create structures for refugees and immigrants.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u24	When? What provision?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u25	Yesterday, what imposed the law on every lawsuit.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u26	Finally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u27	That's what I mean. It was very clean.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u28	This happened night, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u29	That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u30	And who happened to?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u31	I don't know, Mr. Loverdo. The second example, because it has another, is yesterday's PPA, which places land on the islands for building structures for refugees and migrants, so that today's publicity is the unprecedented region of the North Aegean to break down its relationship with the central government. These aren't serious things. I really want someone to explain to me from the government to see if you've finally overcome or compete to overcome all of what we've lived in the previous period with the previous government's law enforcement. And for this PPP, which was also discussing other issues, there were so rapid procedures that none of the institutions, even though it concerns the first residence and all of this, was called to be heard. I shall now speak on the substance of the legislative act. With Article 1, the government is increasing or increasing when the amount of the social dividend took place for 2019 from 175 million to 215 and we are, of course, positive for any provision that relieves small and medium-sized households. However, we point out and must sound firmly that the surpluses that Mr Tsipras has agreed to and continue to apply, with them you are taking ten permanently and when the budget is implemented, you are returning very little, a match for the citizens and not in a permanent way. I must also remind you that it was necessary to intervene with the SMEs, but also with strong criticism from us, so that the Treasury would change the criteria for becoming beneficiaries and the families with a disability of more than 24 years, contrary to what you had regulated or announced. Minister, a socially just pro-active policy needs to be developed and not based on overcrowding. But it seems that this is not what you intend to do, because your philosophy and approach are different. As clear and quite different is your philosophy of the protection of first home, where under Article 2 of the PPP you provided another extension of the out-of-court settlement mechanism until July 30, 2020. We in the Change Movement have presented positions for some time and have tabled concrete proposals. Your Government, on the other hand, shows in every way that it is just waiting for the 30th of April, so the protection of first home ceases and the auctions are before the gates and I told the committee: "Good leftovers", Minister. Our priority is to protect the homes of weak citizens who do not have to pay, and to you it is to support the banks. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that L.3669 PASOK has introduced for the first time the institution of consumer bankruptcy, establishing protection for first residence, and of course there have been legislative interventions by SYRIZA - ANEL, which have gradually begun to remove one - one - tool for the protection of first residence. And the New Democracy, the new government, continued the same failed logic of the previous government. The conclusion is one. This platform prepared to accept applications and solve the problem failed, as, according to the latest data available on January 24, 2020, by the Private Debt Management Special Secretariat, only two hundred and thirty-four regulatory proposals have been accepted and from them only a hundred five cases are with state subsidy. That's the truth. We have proposed to you, with an amendment we have tabled twice, the following: the reintroduction of the protection of the main residence of L.3669/2008 until 31 December 2020 for the really weak borrowers, with strict conditions that take into account the real income, the profile of the borrower and the value of the property. The possibility of using the public contribution to improve the repayment capacity of the debtor and the best repayment of debts to creditors. The borrower’s option to purchase a loan before it is transferred to a fund. The possibility for the borrower to refinance its debt on more favourable terms. All of this is a social and economic legal framework for protecting the first home, which the government wants to ignore in a way and intentionally. We agree on the need to tackle the strategic poor creditors of the loans, which are burdening the economy and social cohesion. We strongly disagree, however, on how and how to protect borrowers who, because of the crisis, are unable to repay the loans they have entered into. The capitalist market needs strong banks, which Mr Georgiadis, the Minister for Development, expressed in the most powerful way and publicly. The capitalist markets, however, with the total impossibility of self-regulation of their profitability - we all know the excessive burdens they impose on the citizens, which is why we have often forsaken and put all these issues in the public debate - 'dangled' the citizens and the Greek economy and the weakest, who are at risk from May 1, to stay without residence. The banks were rescued, not by the capitalist market, but by the fall of the taxpayers and should accept at least a soft adjustment of their claims. They ought to know the citizens how much they were given their loans to funds, how they will go to negotiate with those who have taken their loans from banks, how much they have bought them, how much start-ups this debate will be. And I think there should be the bank's obligation to inform the public in writing about this issue. Finally, the capitalist market must treat the citizens at least equally with its conduct in the funds and enable them to buy their own debt, as I said before. I now come to Article 3 of the MDG. We had voted against the provisions of Law 4512/2018 on the new institutional framework in the register. We had told all the risks that the procedure had. And, of course, we've been confirmed. This is the ending, coming back here to reset issues. If there are no procedures in the register, with the establishment of staff, which will speed up the procedures, the problem will not simply be dealt with by legislation. With regard to the building partnership of the permanent officers of the army, as your rapporteur said in the committee, there is one issue that needs to be regulated. We agree, too. We hope the same will happen with the EAB, with its discharge for another year in the production of tax and insurance information. One must, however, present a development plan for ODA. Because, as in LARCO, our inappropriateness leads us to a dead end and one is the solution: we cut it to pieces and give it. That's not politics. This is a process 'I denounce what I did not do as a government or a government, I charge them at the end to the workers' and the end is 'Come to buy'. LAPD is a critical company, and we need someone to tell us what its strategic role will be. It is a critical company in a critical sector, such as defence, and urgently needs a real plan to develop and not just tackle the problem of tax information every year. With Article 4, we agree. In the provision of Article 5, which also aims to avoid delays and bureaucratic procedures on the part of the secession sector, I have made an observation to you about the correct legality of the committee. I think that at the end of the paragraph, the words 'after the approval of the transfer from the Bank of Greece' should be added, namely that there should also be the approval of the Bank of Greece, and that should be formulated precisely in this particular subparagraph. To conclude, I should like to refer to two amendments: the amendment tabled by the Minister of State for the signing of individual administrative acts, which we must study in particular. I think our parliamentary representative will also be mentioned. We think she's very handsome. It is the second in turn amendment to Law 4622 in just six months. It is a regulation that was supposed to lead the country and administration to normality. The provision you are adding will create confusion and enormous interpretative problems. I fear that you will soon find out that you must bring back a change to what you are amending. Finally, let us come to LARCO. The Government shall make arrangements for the special liquidation of the ‘LARCO’ without ensuring the company's viability without a plan. It just has a problem, the 500 million of the company and the difficulty of fulfilling its obligations. It comes out in front of PPC and the 350 million that the company owes PPC. It does not open up the debate on the critical ore of nickel and cobalt. There is no plan for latterite and quarry and how this will be exploited. There are no issues that we are the fifth country in the world, very importantly stockpiles, critical stock for Europe and energy storage technology in front of us. It does not say how this company arrived - to finish, it was not a question of workers' problems - in all this to discuss here. After Bodossakis who unloaded the National Bank, who kept the company open, we reached the very simple government of 2000, the Simitis government, balance it, put it in a clear position and achieve profitability with the energy programme with the 30 million that were invested in the company at that time. And then we have the new 2004 administrations and the Golden Boys. What are we deciding? Heading. What does that mean? Pre-sales quantities, risk compensation, 10,000 to 30 000 tons. And suddenly - oh of the miracle, the company did not know - 30,000 to 50,000 prices on the world market. That's a nice baking. Who wrote a fund? There's a scandal. Command's down. This was the government of New Democracy 2004, the Golden Boys, the market that regulates them all, the excellent people who will go and take off with their management of the companies. What's going on in 2006? New management. It breaks the contracts. What honor? What damage was written there? Of course, a company which cannot be given money within the country's budgetary difficulties, what does it do? He's not paying PPC. The simplest. What happens to ordinary companies. I don't have any money to pay, it's escalating. In 2006, too, energy costs are escalating. We all know that such companies, in particular mining companies that need significant amounts of energy - and this is crucial, not so much, for the workers to finish their fairy tales - produced higher costs and sold at less value. So instead of having a resolution programme for a strategic company on the country's mineral wealth, - I told you the features, it's one of the strategic reserves, 50 years of which the mines still have life - what are we doing? We transfer the obligations and the company is forced at that time of the crisis after 2009 to give them EUR 135 million state aid to remain open. That's fair. In order to keep the company open, EUR 135 million was granted state aid. No one goes to DIGICOM, but, which renounces the government, to say that it is a critical company with strategic reserves for Europe, not just for Greece. The issue remains like this and all of a sudden, the company is in front of an unthinkable debt that affects PPC. The government is right, 350m euros is a serious problem for PPC. Secondly, without going to fight Europe - and these are the responsibilities of the previous government - regarding another regulation on this issue, EUR 135 million is being given. So it is EUR 500 million, for which when Mr Hatzidakis comes out of public speech and talks, it is like charging the workers mismanagement. Let's be serious. Neither the additional people of each government - which is badly done within the rules, unfortunately, of our political function - have brought the company into a tragic position. In the company the markets and the previous administrations were constantly soared. So, what do we do now? We're taking her to management. What does that mean? Who will apologize at the end, how much will it cost and what will the result be? Who will be the young man who will come and what programme? And what, we're selling the mechanism, selling the mines? What rules will the clearer go with?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u32	What are we gonna sell? Why don't you say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u33	I don't know. Let the government say so. I think what is serious is not the issue if the company finds itself going to continue, but what is the plan, where it will go, what development is. Ten and a half thousand people in your region - those who are from this region - are involved in the company. At what energy cost, will he make investments? This is all not captured anywhere. So, in essence, it is the same thing that Mr Adonis says about loans, that the market will regulate them. But the market, unfortunately, since LARCO became, has been harvesting on the back of the Greek people and in the stock of the country's mineral wealth, and that will unfortunately continue to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u34	Let me make an announcement before I call the next speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured to the exhibition by the Chamber of the "VENIZELOS" seven tenants and four escorts from the "PROPOLIS" of the Psychiatric Hospital of Attica. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] And we continue with the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Ioannis Delis, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, otherwise today's bill started as a mere formal ratification of one of the many acts of legislation common to governments in recent years. And finally, otherwise this bill ends up with the various amendments which have been tabled yesterday. It evolves into a bill literally "fire" on labour and popular rights. The government's catastrophic amendment on 'LARCO' stands out, of course. It is an amendment that the government actually announced last Friday during a debate on a relevant time question from the JRC about this strategic operation. What if a few days ago, on the 25th of January, the center of Athens was vigilant by a shocking rally and anguish of the workers of "LARCO" and their families, along with a huge wave of mass and class solidarity from thousands of other workers who stood and stand on their side in the struggle they give. The government quite simply writes all this in its old shoes with its amendment of shame. And in an unscrupulous way it actually leads to the decline and shrinkage, after various private investors, first plundering on it, my investors, a business of the most important in the world in the iron and steel industry. And in a cynical way it sends hundreds of workers to unemployment on the one hand, and on the other hand to those who are left to have their jobs in the slaughterhouse of their salaries, employment relations and rights. And we're talking, Minister, about the miners who know well in their lives how to tie steel, who count every little bit of their dead in this hard work! Three were the dead workers of LARCO only in the last two months and many were all these years the Andonides, who have never been able to comment, like that memorable one of the great strikes in 1977. These are all who have been slandering for years now the dirty government propaganda of all governments to lead the "LARCO" without protests to today's executive excerpt. Of course, the government, with this amendment of disgrace, despises and throws a precious mineral wealth on dogs, an important property of the Greek people. However, it can and must be supported by the LARCO, because it is a strategically important railway undertaking, the largest undertaking in the European Union and one of the largest in the world in this ore. Now that LARCO is financially supported and continues to operate, it needs to modernise its facilities to ensure the right to work for everyone, as well as all labour rights. It is now that, finally, this gruesome contractor slave who is growing up. You're going to tell me now: Who are we asking for all this from? From the governments of the New Democracy now, SYRIZA and PASOK previously, who were methodically designed to undermine the future of LARCO by increasing its debts? Of those who, like SYRIZA, were looking for investors and even today are struggling from this step for the strategic investor - they say - of the company, if that is to be done transparently? As if a crime ceases to be a crime, when it is made transparently. Are we asking those who had her pay the electricity of PPC two and three times more expensive than all the power-driven companies and are now invoking its debts without shame? And even if PPC were to be a shareholder, please, of its own "LARCO". Imagine that PPC was not a shareholder in LARCO what this company would pay for PPC. And now that candy with the European Union's financing fines - it says - received by Larco from the state. Because at the same time the European Union is the same that puts selective fines on the one hand and on the other hand'single', as in 2018, with EUR 16 billion for the energy and automotive groups to face - it says - climate change and so on. We are not asking for all this as a thanks to the governments that broke LARCO. They are entitled to those workers who are now loaded with the broken government policies. They are entitled to them and they will impose them. All these are the demands of a struggle that is not fooled by the thick words of the bourgeois governments, nor by the supposedly friendly blows to the workers' back, a struggle that is not intimidated by the threats of the European Union, a struggle eventually for another development path that will be opened by the workers themselves. We call on you, as the workers and their families are calling on you, to withdraw this unacceptable amendment of 'LARCO'. On the same question as this exhaustive amendment, however, others who have, as we have said, been tabled in today's bill. So all about the capital for its profits, its plans for the next few decades. This might also be the best title that would fit in this bill. Look, let's say, what the Scaramaga shipyard amendment provides for. It delivers for twenty years to the optimist investor, with the possibility of prolonging, the exclusive use of the Aegean zone in front of the shipyard facilities, while it fails to settle and relieve the fines which are arbitrary buildings there. In fact, these are the latest details in order to open the tender for the sale of the military section of the shipyard to some other saviour investors, a procedure which is soon expected to be completed, as the government is saying, and there is no minimum guarantee of labour rights and the jobs of the eight hundred and thirty workers. Savior investors are also going to a sector of strategic importance, at the expense of all workers in the industry and the general interests of our people. Here's experience, you know. He's had enough experience. The policy of privatisation, which has been evolving for years, of the shipyards' report in the conditions of international competition, is that it has gradually led to the decline in this sector in Greece and the deterioration of the largest shipyards in Greece. And, you know, these consequences of privatization are not only limited to the removal of fixed jobs, labour rights, insurance and the deterioration of safety conditions. They are also concerned with defending the country's sovereign rights, the orientation of domestic production itself. It is a problem that is even more acute in the most dangerous imperialist plans of the United States and NATO, as is the recent example of the shipyards in Syros, Neorio, where the yards are already being exploited as the basis of the United States. The workers, we shall simply say, have nothing positive to wait and must not be fooled by the dilemmas and by these new assurances of the government. Whatever investment is made at the Scaramaga shipyards will be made in the territory of broken labour rights in the name of support for investment by the monopolistic groups, of course, who will be the ones who will be affected by further privatisation and not with the aim of ensuring the stable work of the workers and much more satisfying the people's needs. And one more thing in relation to this amendment. The same amendment includes the valorisation of pier number 4, not so small, it is two hundred and twenty acres, which has been claimed for years by the people of western Athens to satisfy their needs in free areas, where a refugee hosting structure is now also installed there in Scaramaga. The JRC immediately calls for this area to be attributed to the municipality and the people of the region, with adequate government funding for its renewal, while for as long as refugees have been hosted there the responsibility for the government to have it alone in order to ensure human living conditions. Therefore, this amendment for Scaramaga, Minister, must be withdrawn. The same with the amendment - and finally the amendments do not have - the delivery of ten important ports of the country to private individuals, as if they were infrastructures that are strategically important not only for the economy but also for the defence of the country. It is no coincidence that for some of these ports, such as that of Alexandroupolis, for example, the interest of the Americans is very strong, because they want it - and they say it - to promote their dangerous designs in our wider region. According to this amendment, therefore, the duration of the concession of these ports for fifty years, which has been provided for so far by the law of SYRIZA, is increasing in the sixty years, namely, until the 21st century is over. All this at a time when new gratitude arrangements are being prepared for potential investors - buyers of regional ports, which, of course, are also undermining the rights of port workers. Of course we are also voting against this amendment. But here, let us say that in the same amendment - a multimodal one - there is also a provision which reduces VAT on anticancer medicines. We call on you to separate this provision from the rest of the amendment so that we too can define our position. However, we must say here that for us, for the JRC, but also for every people in the public, it is essential that patients stop paying anything for their health, that is to say that they have no participation and therefore no VAT. Because anyway it is incomprehensible and it is also a sign of inhumanity for the current exploitation system that we live in patients to pay value added tax, please, in order to maintain or save their health and life. This savage anti-grassroots policy could only have its accompanying, wrapping. They call it a social dividend, and with this PPP - so it started this bill - it increased by EUR 40 million. As is well known, our party did not stand in the way of this one-off allowance. There is also something that has, of course, been repeated by all governments over the last few years. These are the Christmas benefits of the so-called social dividend for the most extreme victims of their barbaric politics and it is exactly what our people say "for the comfort to the sick". And give him every year this time to fight New Democracy with SYRIZA about who gives most of the crumbs, that is, in fact, who best shares poverty among the poor and impoverished. Both the pursuit is common, to ensure the tolerance of the people to the common objective of their capital and governments, which are no more than the recovery of the profitability of this capital. How do they go to ensure this tolerance, which they call'social cohesion'? But with a policy of managing, integrating the extreme poverty that they themselves bear in politics every day. They go to manage it with various mechanisms, one of which is, of course, the so-called'social dividend'. In short, this policy of poverty management is nothing but the other aspect of the same policy that provides wealthy support for business groups. That's why, you know, he wants a lot of nerve... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will end in about a minute. I'd like a little tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u36	Definitely.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u37	I was saying that this wrapping would be very hard to present when the New Democracy and when SYRIZA as well as the abstraction of social policy and the SYRIZA would like to sell sensitivity because it was giving just a few euros to the most impoverished, and the current New Democracy government would let promises to increase the amount of social dividends, but if the budgetary conditions allow it, that is, in short, if the policy of bloody surpluses and budgetary discipline is implemented, that is to say, the policy of bleeding people's income. This is how the distance between SYRIZA's progress and New Democracy's maintenance is finally enough to be measured in some subdivisions of the euro and how many filters or how many cutters will be applied to identify the poorest of the populace that will get this one-off financial support. At the same time, all of these together, all in here, apart from the JRC, are even lauding the thought of restoring the losses that workers had from the interoperable and anti-popular laws that all of them have passed over the past period. That is why the people must not fall into the trap and consider them to have an obligation above because they are only returning to the poorest of the ten who have stolen them. In relation now - and I will close with this - with the out-of-court settlement mechanism, we have asked the committee a number of critical questions and we have not received a reply. Will the Ministry tell us what percentage of those who entered this arrangement - which I recall that the hundred doses made them a hundred and twenty - were relieved of the hards of his debts? What percentage of small businessmen got rid of? Because we recall that, in order to get some business into the provisions of this law, Law 4469/2017, which is extended, the creditors of this company had to judge that it is sustainable. In other words, how did self-employed people benefit in practice and not just for a short period of time when they actually perpetuate their debts when tax anti-grass measures become intact in fact for small business and micro-professionals? Did the only ones benefit and are the banks again? The questions remain, as are the answers that are expected. Overall, we will, of course, vote against the bill, which, as we have said, is evolving into an outrageous anti-grass bill that breaks workers' rights and conquests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u38	We continue with our colleague Mr. Vassiliardos, a special speaker of the Greek Solution - Kyriakos Velopoulos. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. In summary, for the Scaramaga shipyard amendment, we all want to work. But when we cannot sell them at degrading prices, we must also give them a dowry, even undoing our commitments to local society, then we certainly do not do our job properly. The New Democracy, of course, I mean. As far as LARCO is concerned, it started the same way of redeeming it, as recently as PPC has claimed losses of 500,000,000 euros by Mr. Hatzidakis. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Apparently, he is exploiting his experience in selling from Olympics and others. We remind you here how 2012 had begun to do the same. I'm filing it in the Minutes. Although the company had a net profit of 6.6m euros in 2011 and 6.5m euros in 2012, net profits after tax. We also put it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would also like to stress that the reserves of the nickel alone held by LARCO had a value of USD 16 billion, as we have tabled in the Minutes in the previous year. The company, for which we did not find a balance sheet after 2015, is highly dependent on nickel prices, while employing over a thousand people in sensitive provincial areas, with a turnover of EUR 278 million in 2012. It was the twentieth Greek operation at the time. As usual, however, as for Greece, governments say what the company owes and not what it has. They say, in other words, that it has a debt of EUR five hundred million and only reserves of EUR 16 billion of nickel. We will now start our introduction by being against the policy of tips, such as the social dividends that will be voted on by the bill, instead of producing the wealth of our country and creating decent jobs. We are also against the actions of the New Democracy, which is trying with fragmentary policies and not with an organised plan to give solutions to the chronic problems of the Greek economy. We will continue with the general economic drama of Greece in the context of the rolling bankruptcy our governments have condemned us. Among other things, with the recent co-existence of the New Democracy and the banks that resulted in the project "HRAKLIS", through which banks will be completely released, without any possibility of recovering them, together with the rest of our homes, including the first residence. As a matter of fact, since Greece is now the only country on the planet that has its external borders - I stress it, external - public debt, almost 170% of its GDP. Japan owes more to GDP, but not to itself, while Greece is kept alive from its lenders until it gets what it has and does not, as well as the only one in world history with a red private debt of more than 330,000,000 euros, together with its charges or 170% of its GDP, when 2009 was about 10% of its GDP. From 10% to 170%. If we do not find a solution to these two problems, the future of the country does not. On the issue of auctions, Greece enters the last act of the drama with their complete release to the degree of immunity from 1 May 2020, where the Spanish model will be put into effect. It is planned to happen what happened in Spanish cities, the violent evictions of Spanish borrowers who had lost their homes in auctions with the assistance of trained police forces. The auctions, however, are a commitment of the memorandums, which are supposed to be over, while at the end of the drama there will be more than two hundred and fifty thousand Greek houses lost when on the same date, on 1 May 2020, the bankruptcy law for private individuals will be adopted, noting that the Eurogroup is preparing for the states as early as the end of 2007, obviously with the first candidate Greece. According to the new law, anyone who appeals will be relieved of their debts, but with the full auctioning of their mobile and immovable property, which is a clear evidence that the country's private property has already been delivered to international speculators. In simple terms, when the household declares bankruptcy, its entire property will be liquidated in order to repay its debts to its creditors. Assets include everything that is reported in the tax base, such as real estate, cars, painting tables and other items of value, deposits to other banks, shares, investment funds shares and all other items. In other words, the person who declares bankruptcy or goes bankrupt will be forced to sell his home, even if it is first and only home, possibly the home he owns in his village, another house, plot or fields that he and his family members, cars or any other property possess. As long as the value of the assets to be liquidated is lower than the amount of its debts, the remaining part of the liabilities will be regulated. I mean, he's gonna sell out everything he's got, and he won't have the household and he's still owed it. Only in certain cases to debtors who have no income after the sale of the assets and where the total debt is not covered, may the balance of debt not covered by the sale of their assets be deleted. It is reasonable, therefore, that Greece will experience a beastly political and economic crisis, when tens of Greek families face a serious housing problem in the example of Spain in the past, where many thousands of Spanish families were violently expelled from their homes, now staying in shreddings and slums created outside the large towns of Spain. The difference with Spain, however, for those who have the courage to invoke it as an excuse for Greece, is as follows: Spain experienced a credit crisis with the responsibility of banks and borrowers, while Greece with the sole responsibility of its governments, the Government of Karamanlis, the Government of PASOK, the governance of New Democracy and PASOK, as well as SYRIZA, which closed down and naively naived the entire banking system, in addition to betraying his country, his country, his country and his ideology. In this respect, the change of his name, which he plans to imitate PASOK, will hardly benefit, since the Greeks will never forget his crimes. Now, if we add to all our country's problems, then the situation is even worse, with the view that if we do not act immediately, we will experience conditions similar to Sweden, with a country that has rich and organised, but which has failed to cope with the influx of hundreds of thousands of immigrants in 2015, so that crime at heights has been launched and experience daily bombing, killing at central points, rape women and all the rest. Furthermore, in the bill, the first part relates mainly to the social dividend, where after the governments of the memorandum arc plundered, impoverished and poored the Greeks, instead of producing wealth as they should, they are now trying to share the poverty that has risen to unprecedented levels for Greece. Poverty, however, never fairly shares, while it produces even more poverty, substantiating the inability of our respective governments. In this respect, the New Democracy claims that by increasing the social dividend it will correct the injustices committed against the Greeks who deserved it. Really, how is he gonna fix it? Has he predicted who will receive it? Will at least be given to the three-twelves and the multi-text families in a country where demographics develop at its top of the problem? Is there provision for people with disabilities, for SMEs? The second article of the bill decides to extend the extrajudicial procedure, but it is not going to make the past a criterion. The third article concerns the extension of the mortgages. This provision extends the transition from mortgage to Stock Exchanges. Not all the premises have been created, so it makes sense to extend. In the second part of the bill, Article 2 concerns the Building Cooperative of Permanent Officers of the Hellenic Army, the Hellenic Army. Although this is a procedural issue, we will mention that in 2017 there was a proposal for another body of officers, the Autonomous Building Organisation of Officers, the red loans of the personnel of the Armed Forces, of course, in the form of a management company, after having taken a relevant leave, so that the officers would pay it or resold them to the officers, namely, of buying a loan to 30%, such as speculative funds, and sell it to the borrower with a discount. However, the proposal was then rejected, although in our view it was extremely positive, and it should have been adopted by other bodies. According to our information, however, there is a continuous movement of UCLAF from Ministry to Ministry, which could mean that it is supervised by unfamiliar objects if it is not party movements. Today the supervision of OOMAS is at the Ministry of National Defence and will remain until 30-12-2020, and will then be transferred to the Ministry of Finance. We are therefore wondering why it is being transferred and what the extension is serving. The information we have is that the partners of the UCLAF are over-aged and cannot elect a new board of directors, when it is transferred to the Ministry of Finance, so that a new board of directors can be established, as provided for by Law 564/1968. This is contrary to the basis of the voting procedure, so the 1968 Act has to change. This is a law adopted at the time of the dictatorship. Therefore, it does not respond to the spirit and democratic concept of electing members of bodies from members, where they are appointed by this law. Article 3 concerns EAB, where we agree, after exempting it from the presentation of insurance and tax information by 31-12-2010, obviously because it has undertaken to upgrade F-16. It must be ensured that it works smoothly, as well as the other defence industries and especially ELVO, which has many possibilities, but has been destroyed by the mismanagement of our governments, such as the one we are discussing about LARCO. Article 4 relates to the Deposit and Investment Guarantee Fund, i.e. the CECF, which states that the zero rate is to be applied as a threshold. It's probably procedural. Finally, Article 5, which we will vote against, concerns the bank bankruptcy, where we wondered whether this was a photographic provision in relation to the withdrawal of PRAXIA, which was purchased by the 'VIVA' of the Latsis Group, because on the basis of reports, its bankruptcy has been examined previously. It's an excellent trick. If it really goes bankrupt, that is to say if everything it owes is lost, if PRAXIA goes bankrupt, the Latsis Group will buy a net bank leave without staff, while no compensation will be paid for the staff of EUR 30 million, nor for its other obligations. In our view, if our assumptions are to apply, it is not right that private interests should be served by a government, perhaps in exchange for the Greek, where the New Democracy gives the literally land and water to the investor, who is likely to use the investment to press wherever and as can be, like every businessman. So far, however, we have saved the banks three times with about 44 billion euros added to the public debt. A fourth time we supported them with deferred taxes of EUR 17 billion. That means they won't pay the same taxes, so we'll pay them. We lost their ownership, where our state owned over 80% of their shares in some. And today, we have to save them once again with state guarantees of EUR 12 billion which, if they fall, will again be charged with our debt. All of this to be refined, belonging to foreigners, so that they can confiscate and auction the houses of the Greeks, which our governments are mocking over time, at least as far as the first residence is concerned, since the state could save them with less than EUR 6 billion, given that the first home loans in 2015 were EUR 12 billion and the banks have been depreciated by over 50%. For all mortgage loans, we will again mention the example of the United States since the 1930s, where the state has merely created an investment scheme for their management, with the ultimate result that citizens will not lose their homes and that taxpayers will not be charged. Even now, the United States of all this process has privatised banks again and won 15 billion dollars. Why, really, didn't we do the same thing? Why rescue them again and again? Why didn't we even let them close up, creating new ones in their place, like Iceland in 2008, since we lost so much money anyway? And we'll keep losing. Did we do it, so that our statements that certainly do not have them in their funds are not lost? Or do we not know that their own funds are nonexistent, almost all consisting of deferred taxes and thus air? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u40	We close with the last special speaker, Mr. Georgios Logiadis, from the Mera25 Parliamentary Group for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today, we are called on to discuss its ratification from December 24, 2019. And I said, "We are on Christmas Eve, December 24th, closed parliament and we are legislating." Last night, eight amendments were tabled to the PPP, which we are debating right now. If you allow me, I will paraphrase and say: "A night the caves see Mera and laugh" or rather, he regrets. First of all, then, we cannot support the practice of maladministration, which the government has consolidated as a lawmaking practice, showing - if not, proving - that it is a conscious choice of the notorious rulership, which is nothing but a conception of the state as a company, the government as a board of directors, the Prime Minister as a CEO and the people as ordinary shareholders. These are perfect things. The consolidation of this conception of democracy itself, ladies and gentlemen, is automatically and potentially downgrading it, in the insulating that some will by definition have more shares in the company "ELLENIC REPUBLIC SA". Why is that? Aristide. Parliament enjoys, as it does not perform its role, to compose and make the enforcement of the parliamentary majority. The imposition of a majority of the electorate and, in particular, when we are not even talking about a simple majority - the New Democracy took less than 40% of the electorate in the last elections - does not constitute a democracy. Through bonus representation we will continue for sure to have last minute amendments. The latter two are cumulative dozens of articles that simply do not receive parliamentary debate and processing, except for the moves of legislative improvements to the show, to promote a furnished picture of dialogue and composition. Let's go now to the ratification of the MDD. Article 1, which deals with increasing one-off social dividends, of course, and we are in agreement. Benefits, benefits, social dividends help. Good for you! But on the other hand, we see a fall in the turnover of small and medium-sized enterprises. Let us stress that 97.2% of Greek businesses have fewer than nine employees. This money, Ministers, will not go to savings or investment. It will simply take the state out the back door, because citizens owe the state around 100 billion euros. Poor citizens, bankrupt state. I shall now go to the amendments. One amendment concerns the National Park of the White Mountains, the Samaria Gorge, in Crete, where I am from. There are two articles here, one very good, the first with which we agree. In Chania to say that last winter we had very large natural disasters and this 30% share of income in neighbouring communities will help them. Article 2, however, is independent of this and uncovered and poses many questions to us. So you're in good trouble with bad articles. Are you going to? And that is what I fear is happening to all your amendments. As far as Scaramaga is concerned, with the ministerial amendment you are giving the candidate investor who will buy the Scaramaga shipyards pier number 4 in Haidari. PART25 asks that pier 4 be excluded from the concession. It was never part of the shipyard. It must not be granted to the new owner. Or withdraw the amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u42	Where does it belong?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u43	In the Municipality of Haidari.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u44	Pier 4?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u45	Where does it belong?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u46	It's been in ETA for years. I'll answer you in a moment. It just doesn't belong in the city. It has also responded to the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u47	You want to open the microphone, Minister, so that it can be recorded, why is what you said important?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u48	I'll answer that in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u49	Clear it up and now, since you have taken the floor. I'll give you the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u50	Pier 4 since 2016 belongs to EBRD.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much. That is why we are here to have a dialogue, Minister. I'm glad. We are now going to LARCO. The government in the most contemptuous way in Parliament brings an amendment to the sale of 'Larco'. The first and obvious point to be made is that the social cost of dismissal and uncertainty you reserve for thousands of workers is not even taken into the balance of the Minister's decisions. On the contrary, it is overcome by an vague formula that the investor will exploit much of the workforce. The second and even more obvious is that even as a seller, Mr. Hatzidakis, does not serve the interests of the organisation he represents when he defames him against the buyer. And a simple folk market seller highlights the strong points of his product because if he defamates it, he will eventually have to give it away. The economic chaos that the Minister invoked for LARCO was caused by the administrations appointed on the basis of party criteria by all previous governments over the years. In other words, those who have caused the damage are now claiming to have a solution to the problem, which they themselves have created. See back Olympic Air Force, PPC, OPAP etc. The model of haircut you propose, first, will give any investor a business with big fortune, mines, port, factory. LARCO is a company that has been exploiting an important part of our country's mineral wealth since 1989, namely the latterite deposits, from which nickel is exported, but also potentially cobalt. The use of nickel is in the steel industry. However, another important possibility that is gaining ground and will be launched in the next few years is the use of batteries that support electricity, because in this sector cobalt is also used in the deposits of our country that exploits LARCO. Due to the global pressure of the movements on a green transition, the European Union's leadership is forced to promote, among other things, the electricity movement and the modernisation of the energy-intensive industries with the Green Fund announced in March. The objective conditions, therefore, show us that the nickel and cobalt available to our country can be important sources of revenue for the state and help with the green transition. Furthermore, LARCO can be modernised by an energy-intensive industry in a direction that will reduce both carbon dioxide emissions and energy costs by making use of a funding entitled to European funds. Knowledge of a transformation of LARCO towards a cost-effective, safer for workers and more green energy is in place. In 2006 IGME and the School of Mineralists of the National Technical University of Athens presented a large pilot installation proving that this know-how is directly applicable and can bring significant benefits, making LARCO sustainable for many more years. The appointed administrations, however, ignored these possibilities, leaving LARCO to the present situation and decline. It appears that the depreciation of the Greek state industries for the benefit of privatisation and expropriation is the only objective. We call on the Ministry, even at the last hour, to use the productive potential of the country instead of giving it to private interests. The scientific and labour force of the country can support a process of "green" reconstruction for the benefit of the social system and the Greek economy, provided that this is the direction of selling, as was done with TRAINOSE, airports, ports and PPC. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the list of speakers, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being toured in the exhibition "Volumes of the Greeks - The stations of a route of almost two hundred years" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-one students and students and two educational sessions from the 6th Kallitheas High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-three students and students and four educational attendants of the Livata Fotida High School. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, I would now like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u54	Minister, do you have the floor for your normal speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u55	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u56	Minister Staikoras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u57	I'm gonna apologize, but I'm gonna need a little more than double the year. Ladies and gentlemen, I will talk about everything with evidence. In my position today, I will talk about policies combining economic efficiency and social justice. I will talk about policies that benefit society public wealth and I will talk about policies to tackle the chronic problems of the Greek economy for the benefit of ultimately the workers themselves, problems that are open to the foundations of the economy, open wounds that the SYRIZA government, either because of incapacity or of choice, failed to close or deliberately left to bleed. These are all provisions of the draft law under discussion and indeed of the many amendments accompanying it. First section: Ladies and gentlemen, the government through provisions of the bill sends a clear message to all citizens. Politics are now being designed and implemented without a class mark, but those aimed at all Greek women and all Greeks. Taxes which relieve thousands of households and businesses, without disrupting the country's budgetary discipline, are being reduced, and any financial space available is being used mainly for the benefit of the poorest and medium-sized areas. This was done in the second half of 2019, with the additional budget space of more than EUR 1 billion, which the current government, the New Democracy Government, created. This space, one billion euros, until then, according to what the previous government and the former Finance Minister have said - I have tabled it in the Minutes - the Bank of Greece last week and the institutions did not exist. In fact, everyone converges that there was a budget gap, because the SYRIZA government had already shared the social dividend as supposedly a thirteenth pension. But the crucial question - and the SYRIZA rapporteur is right - is how each government makes use of any financial area available. What did we do? The Government of New Democracy reduced HICP, costing 205 million euros and targeting the middle and lowest income layers of society. Secondly, it paid forward an increased heating allowance, with a final cost of EUR 85 million and a target for the lowest income levels. Thirdly, it reduced the advance payment for legal persons, at the cost of EUR 175 million and targeted all businesses, large, medium-sized and small. Fourthly, it has covered emergency needs in national defence, hospitals and public transport, at the cost of EUR 60 million and aimed at the safety and daily lives of citizens. Fifth, it covered debts to PPC, at the cost of 200m euros and aimed at saving the organization for the benefit of the entire Greek society. Finally, it granted exceptional aid to sensitive social groups, as provided for in the draft law under discussion, at a cost of EUR 215 million and aimed at further supporting economically weak and vulnerable households and strengthening social cohesion. So we shared whatever space we created in the second half of 2019. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] At the same time, with a provision of the bill, the Ministry of Finance, in consultation with the Ministry of Health, proceeds to subject diagnostic and radiotherapy services to patients with discomfort, including cancer patients, at the over-reduced rate of 6%. To date, these goods and services have been subject to 24% and 13% respectively. This legislative initiative reduces the costs borne by patients, but also the total cost of medicine. It turns out, with two provisions of the draft law we are debating today, with exceptional aid to vulnerable households in the context of the distribution of the surplus that has been created in the second half and with the reduction of the VAT rate for goods and services for patients, that we are and will remain firmly next to the citizens. With regard to questions raised and to be dealt with the next period until May for the creation of a single bankruptcy law, we will have time to place ourselves. Besides, this will last another three months. The Government has succeeded in extending the protection of the first residence which the former Government had imposed on the date 31-12-2019. But I will tell you some truths in the titles to inform this House and society. The legal protection of first residence was repealed on 28 February 2019. In all laws, protection is provided because the debt is paid. In 2010 was at 80% of the objective value for thirty years, in 2016 at 100% of the objective value, in 2018 at 100% of the trade value and in 2019 at 120% of the trade value. Auctions took place before the crisis -- about 50,000 -- are done and made. And Mr Tsakalotos has been publicly placed on the subject since 2017, saying that this is very good and very important for us to have good banks for both development and social reasons. With regard to the twenty thousand auctions made in 2019, one third eventually paid, one third went to legal actions and one third were auctions not only at home, but also in other assets. And we're going to the most interesting. The previous government has taken an initiative - rightly so - which we have come and improved for this time to have an additional framework for protection of the first home, also putting the taxpayer from the state budget. According to the data available to the previous government and the current one, with the perimeter decided by the previous government, banks and institutions, they could potentially be placed on the platform by thirty - one thousand eight citizens, with the characteristics set, up to 131,808 thousand euros and so on. These are the official figures of the banks as the previous government has them. How many people got into the platform? Until yesterday sixty-five thousand three hundred ninety-three. One to two citizens of those who may be able to make use of the right given by successive governments has not even been on the platform. Sixty-five thousand three hundred ninety-three have entered. Of these some twenty - two thousand refuse to give their confidentiality, so that we fall to forty - three thousand three hundred ninety - eight.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u58	Why are they refusing?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u59	The answers can be many, multidimensional. They're looking for it. Anyone can speculate. I'll leave it to you too. I would like to tell you that questionnaires have been sent from yesterday to all these citizens from the Secretariat-General of Private Debt to be absolutely sure. The estimates are that one third declares another first residence than the one it has declared to the tax office, so that the procedure does not go any further. One third has an income of over 35,000 euros, so it was about 40,000 euros - and in Katselis. One third does not meet the criteria because on 31-12-2018 the delay was not ninety days and several other reasons were not. But we're looking for them. So, unfortunately, today, it is essentially the citizens who are being assessed, in order to obtain the law's favorable regulation, from a perimeter of thirty thousand eight hundred. We continue the effort and we will intensify it so as many of our compatriots can enter the existing shape. The economic crisis has undoubtedly affected our society. We must, however, move forward, leave the past behind, taught by our mistakes. Overall, the political system, the entire political system. But we can't hide the problems under the carpet. I'll talk to you about this. Private debt affects social cohesion itself and is a major problem for the country. We are seeking to give the opportunity for a substantial new principle, to stop withholding social inequalities by finally putting the strategic misappropriations before their responsibilities, regaining and restoring justice against society as a whole and treating the public with a sense of law, which has been so badly injured. On these tracks we're moving and on them we're moving in the next three months. There will obviously be provision for a second opportunity for households and businesses - and for vulnerable households - throughout the process, several and favourable forecasts. Second section. In this draft law, there are also provisions aimed at regional development using the ten regional ports of the country. The use of these will boost local economies by creating new jobs and increasing trade flows at regional level. At the same time, there will be wider economic benefits for our country, by increasing public revenue and geopolitically, by increasing international trade through our country. In order to facilitate the recovery process and make our ports more attractive to responsible and serious investors, we are conducting a series of legislative initiatives. Among other things, we are proposing to increase the maximum allowable duration of concessions already concluded two decades ago - namely 2002, 2003 - between the Greek State and ten port agencies from fifty to sixty years. Thus, it encourages the adoption of a long-term vision and the design of each port, increasing the footprint of investment in regional development and local society, while enabling the TDIDE to conclude at the same time or successively more contracts for partial withdrawal of specific operational units or port functions and services at each port. Thus, in ports with multiple activity dimensions, there is an opportunity for more than one investment, maximising the investment interest. Ladies and gentlemen, the third section, I think, is of great interest. It is about assets, which, as I told you, are open wounds to the foundations of the Greek economy, which have not opened up during the last five years, but have deteriorated over the last governance of SYRIZA and, of course, have not been healed to discuss them today. I will talk to you about three plus one wounds, and we shall be closing down in the best possible way for society and the economy. I will talk to you about three assets included in the provisions of the draft law and in amendments thereto, namely, the EAA, the Scaramaga shipyards and the LARCO. However, I shall also speak to you about another not included in the provisions, because I consider it appropriate to inform the National Representation. These are four difficult cases that we do not hide under the carpet, four cases which have accumulated debts of over EUR 2.5 billion, as well as an ENPY. We dare to stand up to the problems they have and seek to tackle them with realism and responsibility for workers and society. I'm explaining. ELVO, Greek Vehicle Industry: The company since 2014 has been in special liquidation. On 24 April 2017, a public tender was awarded for real estate, building facilities, equipment, intellectual and industrial property rights, which was finally cancelled in 2017, as the documents of interested parties did not fulfil the conditions of the notice. On 1 August 2017, a repetitive invitation to tender was launched in which no tenders were submitted. Then - and you know - by law an invitation to free negotiation is required. This was done a year ago, at 14-2-2019. The transfer agreement on immovable property, the lease agreement on mobile and the Memorandum of Understanding on the participation of the State in the share capital of the final majority was then made known to interested parties. Interested parties were then requested to extend the time limit for the submission of a tender and the liquidator cancelled the tender. That's what we received. How does the current government deal with the problem? We shall proceed immediately, quickly and in the next few weeks, with the free negotiation process being completed. The final agreed texts are to be published directly by the clearer in order to initiate the procedure provided for in the law. The contractual texts have been amended, supplemented and corrected. There are now two accompanying documents for the invitation. In particular, the transfer agreement on property and the agreement on the participation of the State in the share capital of the final majority, which reserves the right to the State to participate in the company's share capital by a percentage - hold it -21%. It should be recalled that, in the previous procedure, there was a public participation obligation of up to 20%, which did not guarantee a dividend to the State. It should be noted that the present invitation explicitly requires the deposit by the candidate bidders and an operational plan. The process is progressing smoothly, according to the timetables and plans of the current government. Secondly, ODA: in what state did we receive the company? The company in the first and second quarter of 2019 - the supervision of the Ministry of Finance, I would remind you - presented during the implementation of the 19% and 49% budgets, respectively. The Ministry of Finance did not proceed with the activation of the law, i.e. the corrective actions agreed on in a memorandum of cooperation between the Ministry of Finance and the ODA. Remains a refund to the State budget from the Late-Term Finance Programme of approximately 6 million euros. It has unpaid obligations of EUR 58 million, of which EUR 54 million overdue. Cash reserves amounted, when we received, to EUR 2.6 million. The audit reports of the independent auditors for the financial years 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 show that the company’s total equity is negative and there is a possibility that the company will not be able to fulfil its contractual obligations, such as payroll and insurance contributions. That's the situation we've received. According to the data from the Company's Financial Services Directorate - all at your disposal, I gave them to the committee - there is a total lack of liquidity, at risk of postponing payments from the previous September.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u60	Is there an administration, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u61	I'll come to that, if you'll excuse me. All my modules are divided into two parts, what we received and what we do. In conclusion: we have received the company, which is supervised by the Ministry of Finance, in an extremely difficult economic situation. How the current government is facing the problem: Since the summer of 2019, we have taken administrative and legislative initiatives to support the company. First, Mr Loverdos, an internal auditor was appointed following an extraordinary meeting of the General Assembly on 31-10-2019. In addition, the financial statements for 2018 were adopted following an extraordinary meeting of the General Assembly on 15-11-2019. Third, due to a lack of liquidity of the company, initiatives were taken to inject funds into it through the fulfilment of the DPO’s contractual obligations. Fourthly, on 18-11-2019 a provision for the co-ordination of a Sub-Saharan Air Force F-16 programme was passed for the implementation of the F-16 fighter aircraft upgrade program of the Air Force conducted by the ODA. Fifthly, on 16-12-2019 a provision for the co-responsibility of a sub-delegated staff with a view to the best possible promotion and completion of this programme was passed. Sixth, the Ministry of Finance is working on a set of provisions to find best solutions for ODA customs loose ends in previous years. Seventh, the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the Ministry of Interior, explores the exclusion of ODA from mobility in order to stop the bleeding of personnel. Eighth, it was put in a positive position on the basis of the relevant committee of Parliament, new management in the ODA. And, ninthly, the current legislative initiative provides for the exemption for a further year, i.e. until 31/12-2020, of the company from the obligation to produce proof of insurance and tax information. Our aim is to improve the position of ODA and to exploit its competitive advantages in order to claim a satisfactory share of the domestic market, further increase its exports, contribute to the development of innovative products and services, create long-term cooperation. We expect the next day for ODA, for the defence industry in our country, to be much better than yesterday. Thirdly, Scaramaga shipyards: In what state we received the company: They were declared on 2-7-2008, by decisions of the European Commission, illegal and incompatible State aid amounting to EUR 700,000,000 granted by the Greek State to the shipyards in previous years. In 2008. Given the non-implementation of the recovery decision, the European Commission has brought an action against Greece before the Court of Justice of the European Union for failure to comply. In this case a judgment was delivered in June 2012 on the country's decision. It was lodged on 12-10-2017 by the previous government in the context of the decision to recover from the Greek State together with Piraeus Bank as creditors, an application for the company’s position under a special management regime. Because I hear some people here from the Qualified Opposition say they're always against special management. The Scaramaga shipyards were placed under a special management regime on March 8, 2018 by the previous government. It was imposed on the Hellenic Republic, by decision of the Court of Justice of the European Commission, on November 14, 2018 a fine of EUR 10,000,000 and a financial penalty of EUR 7,3 million per se, until the recovery was carried out, for non-compliance with the decision. It is necessary to divest all the assets of the shipyards - this is what the previous government and the current government have decided - in order for the European Commission to consider that recovery has been carried out, in order to stop the obligation to pay the fine and to delete the 700,000,000 debts. The Special Administrator has already sold part of the company’s commercial assets through public tenders. You're right. How the current government is faced with the problem: a tender notice is expected by the clearer for the remaining assets, classified as military. Watch out. The duration of the special management of the Scaramaga shipyards expires, following an extension granted by that Government in September 2020. The Special Administrator shall be required by law to publish, by June 2020, a call for tenders. Otherwise, if the tender is declared barren, the Special Administrator shall be obliged to submit an application for the bankruptcy of the yards. To know what we're dealing with. The Government is promoting a legislative initiative, which we are debating today, to resolve issues relating to the need to grant exclusive rights on the altar and the need for sea space for the operation of a shipyard, the settlement of arbitrary structures and other property issues within the shipyard facilities and the provision of a transitional framework for the protection of the company's special management regime. It is foreseen that the Greek State is required to grant for 20 years, with the possibility of an extension, an exclusive right to use in the zone or part of the eagle area in front of the establishments of the Scaramaga shipyards, as well as the necessary marine space, to any person operating a shipyard or other relevant or supporting activity. This concession is necessary in order to meet the operational needs of the yard undertaking. I heard today say something about the tank 5 and the pier 4. These assets were in the shipyard and since 2016, on previous government, they have been in the EBRD. I also have the letters of today's EBRD. In exchange for the grant of this exclusive right to use a sanctuary and a seaside space, the amount of which is determined in transparent market conditions and the procedure for placing the existing ones within the areas of the Scaramaga shipyards of arbitrary buildings and structures shall be determined. Our aim is to maximise the investment interest in the assets of the Scaramaga shipyards and to develop a structured policy on the future of the shipyards. Finally, LARCO: As you can see, today we will talk about the difficult ones. You will allow me to tell you that I have a particular sensitivity to this asset. SYRIZA's rapporteur has said so too. I have been privatising for the past twelve years in the Fhotida Prefecture, where the company is mainly operating. But I know how to assume my responsibilities and what I am going to tell you today, I have said it publicly in front of the workers. The SYRIZA rapporteur can admit that. I talked at their general meeting about a liquidator within the general workers meeting, because we must save the company. In what state we received the company: here is very interesting. LARCO is closed. I hear it's all the previous people's fault. First of all, I'm telling you the end of it. And all the debts of the past to erase, every month Larco enters. He had nothing from the past, every month he came in. I'll end up there, too. ‘LARCO’ has closed its use in 2018 with a negative net position of EUR 308 million since 217 million in 2015. So the debts were swelled. Recorded in four years 2015-2018 cumulative losses of 148m euros. I would ask anyone in the opposite position to submit specific information in the Minutes. And, of course, I am still waiting in writing for the proposal of the Officerial Response, which was supposed to have been ready and submitted. It's supposed to be! Because here I will return to the answers of the Minister of Finance, then. In 2019, the situation is estimated to be worse. It has debts to third parties - suppliers, contractors, banks, insurance funds and others - over 600 million euros. Most of the debt is actually in PPC. It wasn't created on SYRIZA. 2012 was 145 million euros, but 350 million left SYRIZA. The debts to PPC at the end of 2019 were 350 million euros, while 145 million were in 2012. Every month the debt increases by 5 to 5.5m euros. The company isn't paying for it. For months he has not paid the new deal the previous government made with PPC. For this reason - and it is at your disposal - PPC had sent a ceremonial outlet to LARCO, noting that it would discontinue the power supply on February 17, if the current situation continued. Just yesterday - and you know it - PPC, as a result of the amendment, has given an extension of the monthly invoices. We continue: LARCO is threatened with a fine of EUR 49.5 million for non-compliance with the rules on verified greenhouse gas emissions. Also, Piraeus Bank has terminated two bonds with an open balance of EUR 32 million, plus interest on late payments. Let's go to the most interesting: the last balance sheet the company has published - because of SYRIZA's good administration! - it's 2014. Last published balance sheet, 2014! There are no financial statements, no management reports for 2015. For subsequent years, financial statements have not even been drawn up which have at least been approved by the Governing Council. Let's go below: 1 March 2020, cash assets at zero, according to management's estimates. Maintenance costs have been cut, yes, with blood for workers - you are right and wrong - and there are persistent deficiencies causing catastrophes and interruptions in some furnaces. And I'm telling you, you're talking to a Phoenix MP. The company is accused of serious air pollution in the wider area, as well as of the burden of the Evian Gulf, where thousands of tonnes of rust are deposited every year. In fact, many millions are needed to modernise the nickel mining and production activity and environmental compliance - you are right, Mr rapporteur of the JRC - who do not exist. Finally, Greece has been sentenced last night by the European Court of Justice for non-compliance with the decisions on unlawful State aid to Larco amounting, last night, to EUR 160.6 million, which the company is invited to return to the Greek State. And because I heard that the previous government, before SYRIZA, did nothing, I invite you to refer to the workers' announcements for the period 2012-2014, when the contract to rent the mining concessions of the State was extended, when a refund amount of EUR 22.2 million - August 2013 - was disbursed - when it was decided at a general PPC meeting to provide discounts on the electricity price, when the exemption from excise duty and electricity was introduced, the code used for chemical reduction. And as to whether the Greek state did something about alleged State aid, on April 30, 2013 it responded well to the European Commission. I repeat, he responded well to the European Commission! But - and I will come back to this - when on 24 January 2019 the Greek Government received a letter saying that the Minister of Finance has not responded for two years to the European Commission's complaints, what happened then? What was the reply 2017-2019? There isn't. Here is the document of the European Commission, which says features to be precise: "Despite the fact that we have made many contacts including a letter on November 13, 2018, Commissioner Vestagher and Minister of Finance Mr Tsakalotou, to comply with Greece, your Government never replied in November 2017". This, to see what each government does. For all this, during the previous period, I had tabled fourteen parliamentary questions, because I saw how the situation, to the then Minister of Finance, is going from 2015 to 2018. Thirteen repetitions in response since 2015. LARCO is considered as a direct priority in the government's planning for the wider public sector companies, with the aim of achieving the maximum benefit for the public interest. On 1 December 2015, the same response shall be repeated thirteen times by 2018. And we still don't have a plan. The company, I repeat, even if its accumulated losses were magically erased, operates every month with damage. In conclusion, the situation in the company is tragic. Even SYRIZA who until 2018, I have here Mr. Tsipras' statements in Lamia, talked about protecting Larco's public interest, made one of the well-known assholes, as revealed by the earlier statements, no reference to publicity. But it is also revealed by letters from Mr Tsakalotou in 2019, who said yesterday that by letter sent in 2019, on 28 March 2019, he recognises, instead of what the SYRIZA MPs who came out to the media and argued for something else, that the Hellenic Republic is ready to consider proposals for private investors - would otherwise be in the public sector - in the context of transparent and open procedures. How does the current government deal with the problem? I shall refer to that and I shall close. We have tabled an amendment to rescue LARCO. We seek to maintain the activity and take it from a private investor, through a process that is quick, legally sound and compatible with the decisions of the European Union. The aim is to create the conditions for the new investor to proceed with the investment necessary to modernise mining and production, in order to enter a development orbit for the benefit of workers, local society and ultimately the national economy. With the main aim of protecting workers, so the prevention of the existing scenario of default, I told you about PPC, a special manager is immediately established. The position of ‘LARCO’ in a special management is not a matter for a company to resolve, does not imply a closure of its operation and does not result in any conclusion of all its contracts. The company, and not pass it, is for the first time in the last decade to 35 million euros, which involves the cost of special management and company operating costs, in order to continue its activity. Without this amount, we have an unscrupulous bankruptcy. First time he puts the public 35 million in the last decade. This amount will be allocated, for most of it, for electricity consumption, so that PPC does not draw the cable on February 17 for the supply of liquid fuel, for the supply of solid fuel, for the supply of raw and auxiliary materials, for the remuneration of contractors and transporters, for payroll - there is no money for payroll - for equivalent employers' contributions in favour of R & D&D, for staff insurance. The amendment also sets out the tasks of the Special Administrator, which is to record the entire assets and liabilities of the undertaking, the preparation of an action plan comprising a minimum of operational financial estimates and forecasts for the specific management period. Furthermore, the special administrator is indeed obliged to reduce the cost of wages by 25%, because all the costs of rescue cannot be borne by Greek taxpayers. They'll raise the 35 million. The employees of the company that we have been trying to save for a year should also contribute. In the event of any dispute concerning the company’s assets and liabilities in the Greek State, ‘LARCO’ and the Greek State may refer the dispute to arbitration. The procedure is to be completed as soon as possible. We have indeed made a coexistence of dates. It shall be completed within 12 months of the establishment of the administrator with the possibility of only a six-month extension. Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken frankly to you, I have spoken with information. Please put evidence in this Chamber. I have spoken with respect to the money of the Greek taxpayers, but also to the work of our compatriots in these four problematic companies. The government dares to stand up to the great problems they have and seek to face them. Unfortunately, for any of these companies, as shown today by the suggestions, there is no realistic alternative. We are doing our best for workers and for society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, I would like to ask a question for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u63	Here, we're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u64	Minister, you mentioned a document you received today from the EBRD. Will you please tell me who's signing this? And if you can and what government he went to...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Vitsa. He'll testify. First of all, we should welcome Mr Alexiadis and wish him passively and health, which is the most valuable good and we all need it. [[Applause]] The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Loverdes has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall begin with the last thing Mr Stavros said about his speech, the style and the content of his speech. I do not have the giggling, Minister, and I have not had it since the first day you have taken on, but I disagree that you are the first Minister in the difficult years, who we have lived for by making his positions public, but also in the private economy, because this is the role of the Minister of Finance. It was badly understood, of course, that the crisis was being pushed, as a minister who only deals with national accounts. I am therefore very pleased that, by listening to a speech forty minutes, I have heard a lot of issues and the evidence that the National Representation currently has before it. Your word has been produced by the Committee on External Economic Relations and by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. I will make specific references to joint meetings. But before I begin, I would like to make a reference to immigration - refugee, ladies and gentlemen. In an hour's time we have a National Foreign Policy Council. Our position, our navigation line, records the issue of immigration and refugee in our foreign policy issues, one of the most basic and special issues in Greek-Turkish relations. Anyone who does not see it that way does not see what is happening in the country right now. It is also a question of European policy. But above all, it is a matter of foreign policy and a specific issue of Greek-Turkish relations. It therefore requires other behaviour of the National Representation and the media. It requires behaviour, which first rule the protection of the Greek people. This is the first rule for a Greek MP, the protection of the Greek people and the protection of the country from there and beyond we enter our special record. We have a government that is still detecting the problem, which has been fully unprepared, which has five co-responsible ministers with confusing responsibilities, without head, an irresponsible government that has made a mistake with the abolition of the Ministry of Immigration, as it has accepted, and which, at the moment, is doing good, such as military and police cooperation, has not the courage to come out and say so, a government and cowardly plus others, failed so far and cowardly. We had a little debate yesterday on the question of requisition. I heard you, Mrs. Pipilis, carefully this morning, about what you were saying in the media. Yes, but that is not a matter that the National Representation should at least listen to, is not possible. It should have been discussed, it should have become visible. It is not a matter of permanent and permanent nature, it is a form of rental for certain sites and we should be prepared. Suddenly, we have learned about an order, and of course I understand local concerns. Who doesn't understand them? Go tell everyone you don't understand. A problem - I repeat - foreign policy with special reference to the Greek-Turkish relations with which a government stands detectively, failed and cowardly and a major opposition, which forgets what it has done, forgets how it has made Greece a unique portal of work of the soul smugglers and is now beginning to say that it would do better, a government that refused to make the ranking of immigrants and refugees in Greece. We spit out blood to admit that and don't say we have two issues. The first point is to prevent new flows as far as possible and the second is to see how we manage the tens of thousands that are currently in Greece. Refugee the closed centers, deny everything that causes a deterrent to smugglers and those who pay from what they do not have the two grand to come from Constantinople to the Evros border or the grand that they pay to get into the boats. Preventing, therefore, to finish with the flows and management through the measures that we have repeatedly mentioned to see what we will do with those we already have here. Secondly, thank you very much, Mr Arvanitides, really thank you. You made a reference to yesterday's decision of the Multipartite Court of First Instance. This is the decision, by which, Mr Minister for Finance, you had an anti-constitutional 'night' arrangement, on the basis of which in the recog­nition of powers of the individual, that is to say, where the plaintiff asks for a lot of money, you put a legal mark before the request was accepted and we proceed to the vote. One's making his cross. She wonders why you did this. The President of the Athens Bar Association says you did it for one, who was treated EUR 400 million to make it difficult for the plaintiff, who had to pay 40 million. There's no other explanation. No other explanation can be given. Because if you were to say that you wanted to stop the pre-experience, you'd take it to the younger ones. You've done it to the multi-members on the judiciary, and the first answer came. Ladies and gentlemen, with the exception of my criticism and my attack on the wrongdoing system, which was based in Greece by the previous government, I have never praised or been convicted against judicial decisions, because I am a member of the legislature. However, I am content with pointing out whether a decision agrees with what the National Representation says, with objections to unconstitutionality, or whether it is not. So, only with this logic, I read the following from Patras's pluralist yesterday: "The exception of recognizing actions from the court register was established and maintained for a long time in the service of the rights of free access to a court and equality of citizens vis-à-vis the law. It is clear that the costs of the party in legal proceedings - please listen - before the recognition of his right, i.e. in a precarious situation at the same stage of the proceedings - only economically impossible to prevent the action from being brought.' Can I repeat it? ‘Only economically impossible is it to prevent the conduct of the action while the financially strong are more at risk of rejection. The imposition of the judicial act at an early and precarious stage for the party is not linked to the functioning of justice and only serves the cash interest of the State, but which cannot be promoted by human and constitutional rights.’ Rejoice in this decision! Everybody enjoy it together. You brought her overnight, you spent the night and the answers from the Greek courts come. As far as the legislative act is concerned, I do not have time to deal with many points. However, I shall refer to the four-month extension of the extrajudicial application. Mr. Arvanitides has made a specific reference to evidence. My dear colleague, however, has given other evidence today. The Minister did an extensive analysis and gave another number of applications for registration and problems that are found to those who have made the applications.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u67	I heard him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u68	So we need to see this again. This is the last quarter of those concerned, whom the Minister raised the number of thirty-one thousand eight hundred. Minister, if I understand correctly, these are the first-place debtors. Didn't you refer to them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u69	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u70	That's right. We are talking, on the other hand, about the fact that it gave rise to two thousand who seem to be subject to the beneficial arrangements. You realise at the end of April what will happen with the first home auctions. That is why you have to do your utmost, because the government will have a huge problem, but also all of us with an extension of this period, because you are still investigating the evidence and those who have submitted requests for access and who refuse to present their personal data, give another first-stage address, as you have said. That's why he gave evidence that we need to see. Therefore, for reasons of lack of preparation and operational reasons you must go to this solution. Ladies and gentlemen, the 130,000, the limit you have put - I am addressing the Civic Opposition - includes both the debt and interest on late payment. At least, can you not make this clear with a new arrangement and only relate to the principal chapter? It's your duty. We have also asked you, in a series of questions by Mr Kegeroglu and as a Parliamentary Group, if possible, to inform the bank individually of the borrower, following the sale of his loan, where the allocation of the claim to him by the bank, i.e. the individualisation, has been calculated. Now on the amendments, Mr President, I want two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u71	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u72	Half of it will be devoted to the amendment concerning the final state, without making any specific claims. It is simply the Greek bureaucracy that I know it well, that I have studied it scientifically and politically. When you brought the regulation to the final state, I told your Minister, Mr. Gerapetritis, and, of course, the National Representation, that it is an absolutely bureaucratic intervention. You say it yourself now, in private discussions, that too many things to do need to work on this hydro-headed shape that you have voted on. It's not helping you. It's not helping the country. Only delays produce at all levels. But here we also have two amendments, one some time ago and one today, for the ultimate state, which makes us understand that you are still not well aware of this. You are also entitled to a signature and to a Director-General. I couldn't agree more. But as Minister, I did this without laws. I did these with the power given by the law, when it instructs a politician, who is a Minister, a State Secretary or a Secretary-General, a right of signature, to go further, to speed up the process, not to stack the demands of the governors, to serve, as regards the time spent by the state, by the Greek citizen. But that's not enough. It cannot lift my right to criticise the fact that a hydro-headed shape of what you have set up and amended every two months. Think about this. The only way that fits the parliamentary affairs of a country suffering from bureaucracy is to abolish the six general secretariats and hundreds of officials. Finally, I would like to say, Minister, that your reference to both ELVO and EAV and the shipyards and LARCO was extremely useful. For the first three - Mr Vitsats left - four and a half years please at joint meetings of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to see, at least with the EAW and the Hellenic Defence Systems and the Scaramaga Shipyards, how we can move forward and what had not been done. There has been nothing going on for four and a half years, whatever the ministers of yours may have produced. I agree with the record made by Mr Stagioras, but with nothing I can agree with or accept the Change Movement to take responsibility for what is to be done, unless the Defence Committee and the Committee on Economic Affairs, at a joint meeting, draw up all these proposals. Why are you, in an ambitious way, presenting rescue plans - and the previous ones, for four and a half years, I have been following them as a responsible and in the defence sector then in our party - and there has been no progress. Good intentions are not enough. Specifically for LARCO - and I am closing down with that, Mr President - the responsibility for what we are meeting today, which you are managing today and which you are trying to solve, belongs to the Government of Karamanlis 2004-2009. 100%. He received a ‘LARCO’, as we would say, ‘equal boats, equal waters’, with a balanced budget, a company that could withstand competition and withstand its existence, and from 2004 to 2009 as Mr Arvanitidis described. I have it in front of me, but I can't do it over time. Efforts were made by the Samara - Venizelou government, the Tsipra government received the negative situation that we have received and described, delivered it worse and you are now coming to say what your plan is. We, however, as a opposition party, are following this such a crucial issue for the country, which is related to its mineral wealth. We also had a special debate yesterday and the initiative was indeed taken by the President of the Greek Solution, and I have to say that. Here, then, we have an issue of mineral wealth, we have a question of jobs, it also concerns your analogue region and three other regions. We have the special issue of this company's importance for the national economy, especially in a phase where the entire electricity system can also be presented to this company in order to find a source of energy and therefore also has a profitable perspective and a useful one. There is one issue that is related - as you have said quite rightly and which our rapporteur has said - to PPC. We also obviously have an issue relating to the protection of the environment. If a solution is not structured in these five very basic parameters, we will not accept it. Of course we are not voting on this amendment and we are very critical of it. We are waiting for the good of Greece, the economy and all the data I mentioned, to have a positive development. We'll watch her while you're not imagining, carefully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. The President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by saying this: Minister, for too long we have been talking about dieselgate. You are collecting money from the Greek people, you are fiercely taxing, you are constantly creating tax burdens on the Greek citizen, and there are millions of euros. Minister, I want you to listen to me a little bit about Dieselgate. Because this government does not speak, does not speak. And there are countries - I repeat - which have imposed fines for the Dieselgate in Germany because of its tempted 'VOLKSWAGEN' software and you as a government do not know what is happening to you. We are talking about tens or hundreds of millions of euros that could go not to the social dividend, but to the CSCE that you all abolished. And Poland imposed fines and America imposed fines. After all, the story of 'NOVARTIS', dear Minister - you are running behind your shadows now - this is how it started. It started under US justice control in the scams, the crooks of the Germans. The largest, most illegitimate state that legalises the misassis is Germany. And the other countries come out and take millions of euros. And you, as Minister of National Economy, but also as government, who can earn some millions of euros, do nothing with dieselgate. Mr Viliardos has been asking you for a very long time and officially and with written questions about what you are doing and what you are not doing - we report them here - and no one is answering them. Nobody! So the Poles, the Americans, are smarter than us? There are other countries. Only Greece, in other words, can not impose on the German fines? And for LARCO we are threatened by Germany and the European Union with fines because we are granting state subsidies. I mean, at some point, I want you to take special care of how you make money other than taxation. Because you've learned a booze, Minister. I've known you before. And all the governments of both SYRIZA and PASOK and New Democracy know a road map. What do I do when I don't have any money? I'm taxing the Greek. And we've reached the point where the Greeks can't pay his tax. I would therefore like you, Minister, to take note of it next time I see you here, to ask again what you have done with Dieselgate. Because it could also be 150m euros the fine. And these 150 million euros you don't have in your pocket, neither do you. Your friends, Latsis and all these good friends you've been serving at times, but you don't have them. This EUR 150 million cannot be given to the Greek people who are falling? We can. And now we're going to the rest. And I'll start before the bill to talk about the policing plan. You've found it here in New Democracy. Any failure to do so either in illegal immigration or in policing, you are making it a 'new policing plan'. I am referring to the new plan in Exarchia. Every week, every month, the New Democracy's failed policies lead it to new projects. You know what you remind me of? You remind me of the well-known word: "Manolius changed and put his clothes on." You are baptizing a plan that you do not have 'new policing plan'. You're going to leave, some people will go in, say machines, get dogs, kittens, and police what? An area of two square miles [2 m] in Exarchia when you cannot police the center of Athens! But you have a minister, Mr Chrysochide, whom I like at all events, who every month is doing something new. The channels take it, they blow it, they make it big, like it's over with crime. The way you do things, you once again show that you have no plan, you have no programme, you have never had a programme and it proved to be in illegal immigration, but it proved to be in law and in order, crime, it proved to be also in the economy. We are telling you, once again, to repeat it so that it can be heard once again: dieselgate. That's what this story is called the German software-driven malicious story. And I'm talking about Germany that's your friend and she's not our friend, but she's your friend. Do something about it. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So let's go to the social dividend. Okay, social dividend. Why don't we tell the Greek people here who's got the social dividend in the past year? Why don't we just say that a hundred and seventy-two nationalities got the social dividend? They didn't take it from Greeks, but everyone in Greece took it. The Greek Solution's view is that Greeks should first take the money and, if they have enough money, the rest of them should take. We might be wrong. You may, because you love the whole world, share the money of the Greek people in all nationalities. If you want to share your own pocket money, share it with all nationalities. The money from the state budget, however, is from the Greek state budget and belongs to Greeks and not to every Algerian, Moroccan and I don't know who else has in here. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And it's not, you know, racist or extreme. It is the reality: Who is taxed? The Greek. Who pays C.E.D., who pays taxes? The Greek. Who expects taxes to have social benefits? The Greek. I get another week in Greece and in six months he gets 500 euros every month, he gets his dividend. That doesn't make sense. So I quote to HICP, my Minister, in the Minutes of the House to see that you have given seventy-two nationalities the Greek people's money. As if Greece has a budget with surpluses really, not what we say here, and it can give where it wants. It's not like that! [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Noise from the ministerial benches]] Mr President, it is not wrong for some colleagues to respect their colleague. I guess I would never do that thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u75	Minister and colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u76	I apologise, but imagine the Minister speaks and we sit down and talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u78	When your Chief, Mr. Mitsotakis, talks, are we going to make a little bit of a bunker back there to stand up all of us together?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u79	You don't have a problem!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u80	No, I have a problem with the violations of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. It's not appropriate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u81	Please, ladies and gentlemen. The president's request was made. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u82	So let's go to S.H.I.E.L.D. So the New Democracy and the PASOK abolished it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u83	We didn't abolish it. SYRIZA has abolished it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u84	Well, from what Mr. Kegeroglu tells us, then, PASOK didn't abolish it. So, for us, the ECHR is an inalienable condition to really return to the poor Greeks, although we are against the benefits. You don't do politics with allowances. It's given our tactics and our logic. However, the ESS must come back to the poor Greek pensioners because it helps the pocket of the Greek people, it also helps the economy, it helps the machine to produce and move money. I say it to some people to understand that what you're doing is on paper, it's on paper, Minister. What can I do to you? It can't be done. You know, repetition of every mother of all learning, they say, but they don't understand anything. They're talking to each other. It's okay, Ministers are what they want to do. At some point I imagine, Mr. Hatzidakis, when the Minister of SYRIZA is sitting there talking to the other Minister, he won't listen to you when you talk, he will bother you. And I say it with a lot of love. Or when the ministers sit down, and you're a congressman, it'll bother you. And it'll soon be that, believe me, if you keep going like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u85	Which, the first or the second will be soon?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u86	It doesn't matter. Either one or the other will bother him, Mr. Comrade. We're actually going to the social dividend. The Institute for Labour of GSEE, a report on economic developments on page 1 - I tell you what GSEE says - "The expectations of a rapid return of the economy and society to the dynamics of cohesion and development are unrealistic". I don't know how many of you in here are working, i.e. producing wealth or having the agony to work and work every day, but the market is bogging. The fall in store turnover is huge. Ask people of production. I'm not going to talk to my own companies, whether I'm in trouble. Yes, my turnover has fallen by 30% since the New Democracy took over. Since he took over in July, Mr Villardo, we have fallen 32% down on the turnover of companies. That means it's not moving money. It means there's no money to move to the market, the simplest of all. They're capitalists, the theory of Adam Smith and all these capitalists, but they don't understand that as long as they tax as they don't give money to the market, the market won't move. These are the mere lessons of economic theory in the first year of economic studies, and I did not study economics, I studied History and Philosophy. In any case, let us get a little serious in here. Taxation can't be a policy, it can't be. Let's go to page five, "GCC's concern for the absence of dynamic private consumption and real investment." Here, friends and friends, you squeezed us in New Democracy, which continues its violin, the violin of so-called investments and talks between them - you see them, it doesn't need much brain - with investments. I will say this once again, gentlemen of the New Democracy. Investment is not Greek. Investment is not the foreign capital that comes to Greece. The investment is to invest the Greek who loves his place, loves his homeland, wants to stay here, wants to invest here, so help him invest. You don't get it. Casino investment is nowhere in the world. Casino isn't an investment, and understand it. You'll make me in Maroussi, you'll make me in Heraklion, you'll make me in Kalamata, you'll make me all over casinos. Is that investment? You guys are confused. Investment is another thing. I present in the minutes the bulletin of the Institute of Labour of the GSEE. [[At this point the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above-mentioned bulletin, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are going to the OECD figures invoked by the New Democracy as Opposition. I have heard Mr Stakoura many times, as a Member of Parliament at that time, invoking the OECD. To the limits of poverty seven out of ten Greeks. In other words, seven out of ten Greeks are on the verge of poverty and this government expects the market to move. However, when seven out of ten Greeks have no money to give to take a product, the market will not move. I'm telling you as simple as possible. 67% save less than 983 euros a year. So the banks are in trouble because they have no savings to get money to lend as guarantees. It's a circle, a chain you don't see. Under the poverty line is 12.9% and 54% are economically vulnerable. Greece is second in Greece with the highest rate of poverty among the economically vulnerable. This is the deprivation table, as called by the OECD, and I'm filing it in the Minutes for it to exist. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are going to the extrajudicial mechanism: it is the biggest tale that Mr Zavvos was preparing for, and I have said so for a long time. In my village they say that "the wild work doesn't work for you". You know what 'bad' means. I don't have anything with the man, but this plan he's done is honestly a tocophery clean plan and serves the bankers and understand it. It's not bad to serve the bankers, not, anyway, you guys were intertwined, but not like this. Of the sixty thousand applications, the two thousand have been completed. Here's what New Democracy's "pads" have been doing since yesterday - I saw Mr. Stavoura say it - coming out without evidence and saying that 50% can pay, but he's not paying. Mr President, I have listened to Mr Papadakis at the Honourable Member's hearing. When the Minister comes out and gives evidence, he must be very careful. You will say names, who did the check, who said 'yes', who said 'no' and why they said 'yes' or 'no'. You remain in the fact that they do not want - he says - to withdraw bank confidentiality in other deposits. How many statements are there? Is that 5,000 euros? Is that 2,000 euros? Because if I'm in danger of losing my house, and I'm in a deposit with 5,000 euros, I don't want you to take it from me, man! I'm telling you this in a very simple way, Minister. I don't want you to take it from me because you've taken it from me. Because I got a 100-euro loan, I pay 150 euros, I owe another 100 euros and you don't do me a haircut, you don't do anything and you come and get me the other 10,000 euros I have at the bank, if I make you an out-of-court compromise. So this use of selective data and figures, Mr. Minister, has led Greece to bankruptcy because since 1981, not to say since 1974, you have all said the same, "we're going well" and the "fuss" has stumbled at some point because you've been interpreting the numbers as you wanted them, "we've got this and it's going well". Don't work like that because you work for the Greek people. Tell me you're a family who was taking 2,000 euros in the 1990s, how will you pay the 1,000 euros today when the man gets 800 euros only because the woman was fired? The simplest thing I'm telling you. Do you know what the problem is? You have not worked, you have not worked for most - not all of you, I imagine - and you have no balance. I say that many in here as civil servants - and I say otherwise - have taken 1,200 euros, now they get 7,000 euros. But they don't realize that the world outside may not have any business at all. In other words, he took 1,500 euros with his wife in the private sector, and now he may not have a job and be unemployed. How's he gonna pay the loan, damn it, get up? What does the Minister say to me? That these people are shit. Why are these scumbags? Because he has 10,000 euros in the bank for his children and he's afraid that if he goes to make an extrajudicial compromise, he'll get the 10,000 euros. People are looking for suckers, looking for idiots. Well, it's not like that. And I'll say it anyway. And if some people really want to talk, let's look at the loans from the parties - all the parties - to pay the loans first from the parties and then go get everyone's home whenever we want and when we want. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And as far as I know, New Democracy has loans, but unfortunately, PASOK has loans. SYRIZA has some psalmies, some guarantees he has in the past, some real estate there in Kumbuduru, a loan taken by people. I would like to say to you that we need to get a little serious. How are we going to convince the Greek people that we are looking after their own good? How are we going to convince the Greek people that what we do in here is to do for the sake of the state and the nation, the country, the state? Unfortunately, friends and friends, you're always lying. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, not to say the numbers, EUR 300,000, EUR 200,000, 000, are constantly growing. I submit to the Minutes of Parliament, the New Democracy balance sheet and the rest of the parties that owe loans, so that you know. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The solution is one, Minister. If you cannot invent it, if, that is, you are not Archimedes or Einstein, take and copy the American model of the 1930s, which it succeeded. A successful model. We're taking all the loans to a bad bank. And this move by the Americans has brought gains in this story. But you don't want to do that. The New Democracy will never do that, ladies and gentlemen, because it wants to serve its bankers, its friends, its own people, as if the citizens were not our people, they are not together, they are not people of labor and the market, they are not people who have worked for years. And I say this sincerely with a lot of soul pain, because you have an article, Article 5, for bank bankruptcy. Classic photographic device. It doesn't take long to understand that Article 5 is a photographic device. PRAXIA should go bankrupt and buy it purely ‘VIVA’, i.e. VIVA Latsis. Get her clean. Are you all right? Are you Latsi's employees? Greek Latsis, "VIVA" Latsis, inside "PRAXIA" Latsis, everywhere Latsis? What's Greece's name, Latsistan? What's it called? Ella-Latsistan! I mean, then, you need to be careful. You need to know this with Caesar and his wife. It can't be done. You can't even hide. But if you can't hide, don't do this, or we'll find you. The Greek solution for this is to find you. As also for the shipyards in Scaramaga, I do not understand why in the country of the ten thousand-year history of shipbuilding, in the country that had cosmopolitan citizens and who have gone to the ends of the Mediterranean, have done colonies in Eboli, Naples, Marseille, Marseille, our ancient ancestors who had shipping, who had a navy, are coming today and doing something for which, frankly, I cannot understand what that makes sense. Let us all agree together to say, at least, that a shipyard is left Greek and produce our own freshmen, our own ships, our purse, to make our own boats. What are you doing? You give it all to foreigners and in a way that is even unwise. And because the Minister is here too, Mr Hatzidakis, if at some point - I do not wish you - you are not a minister or a MP, you can become a special company clearer. You're the right man in the right place, you clear them to the feather. Bang, bang. You start whispering, it owes, it does, it flows, as in "Olympic". I'm sorry, Mr. Hatzidakis, thirty years you've ruled, what have you done for all this? You come here today and tell me that LARCO owes me. All right, is LARCO owed, who is responsible for the debt of LARCO? The Greek Solution? The JRC? Let SYRIZA have a hand too, but who's to blame? Tell me about it. I'm sorry, you said here, Mr. Hatzidakis, that 'we have made mistakes for decades, we have not taken care of, we have had a failed economic policy', but development policy is not. You're coming as a special clearer. In other words, you did what we call "the doctor". The patient's dying, guys, what do we do? In the morgue. Well, it's not like that. I have you, Minister, to give me a recovery solution, not debriefing. That's why you're ministers. If you can't go home to finish the story. What you do, my father does it. Special clearance. And end the story. And with LARCO, another crime. Why crime? I'll tell you now. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, because Andrew Loverd said something, my good friend, who was absolutely right. Listen, Mr. Loverdo, who the gentlemen are working for, because they're working for us. LARCO’s main product is ferro-nickel. It covers 6% of Europe's needs and 3% worldwide. There is, however, also the cobalt which everyone who hides. Everyone's hiding it. Because cobalt, friends and friends, it's necessary strategic material and it's the raw material needed for batteries. And they're hiding it! That's the story, and I denounce it here. In two years' time, when LARCO, the private person, will make a cobalt, Mr. Hadjidakis will come here and say "you know, yes, it was the previous ones that sold it", as was done with "FRAPORT", their favorite company, which the profits make investments. So it's not an investment, ladies and gentlemen. You're a little confused in your mind. I am very sympathetic to you because many of you are friends. I say this because this means that the needs of the European Union in cobalt in 2025 will be fifty-three thousand tonnes. Only two thousand three thousand tonnes are produced within the European Union, Finland. The rest of us get it from Russia and Congo. Hey, you're not gonna make us Russia, you're gonna make us Congo! It's a long story cobalt. You smiled, Mr Hatzidakis, as well as the oil, which I told you in 2007, in 2008, in 2009 and you smiled again, but today I was confirmed that there are gas and oil in Greece and that is why the Turks claim Greek territory. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You're smiling, unfortunately, but you're not mind-smiling. I could say a lot more about this, but I stop it. I will not say about Mr Staikora, because LARCO is within his constituency. It wants greater sensitivity from all of us, because there will be a thousand two hundred or three hundred people on the road and leave what you say. The profession they do in "LARCO" is very dangerous. You guys go get the money. A lot of people get 3,000 or 2,500 euros. Yeah, you guys go to the mines and you guys work. And I say it because my father in Germany worked at the mine. He went in this morning, made his cross, and he didn't know if he'd get out of there alive. So go on, you guys work in the mines, tell me if they're high-paid. Will you make us Congolese, take 300 euros a month to work in the mines? Is that what you want? So you're making mistakes, because it's a company that can be developed. Where are the PPPs? Do PPP, cooperation in the public and private sectors, as all the serious countries that are capitalist do. It's not supposed to save it well if the privateer has it all. It can't be done. Germany does that. So is France and Italy. The ‘ENI’, the mining company, is a state-owned company. Why do they all have to be private and all of Latsis or your friends? Because it's not just Latsis, it's other friends of yours. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the Greek Solution is ringing at this point.]] Because I want to close, so I don't want to take you any more time, I want to say that you have set up a great trap for the Greek people. And here I ask Mr. Loverdos to look into it and my dear friend from Iconium, as a Iconian, to look into it. Andreas Papandreou's deal and pressure for the EOZ is here. It's five degrees east. Mr Lakkotrupis denounced it that the Greek EEZ, the Cypriot and Egyptians had to go five degrees easter. These maps were submitted by Cyprus, which means that we have already lost the EEZ Cyprus - Greece. This was with George Papandreou. I'm telling you right now, and I'm going to tell you raw. This story reminds me of a bit of treason, because no means mentioned it, no Member mentioned it. Look a little bit longer at the UN. They are deposited coordinates five degrees easter than Cyprus, because it was pressed. The Minister, Mr Lakkotrupis, said so. Look it up. I know what I'm telling you. This means that we give Turkey, ladies and gentlemen, the whole of the EEZ to Egypt and in between the Turkish EEZ is in between Greece and Cyprus and they will drag us to The Hague, because the game is set. They're preparing conferences, preparing the ELIAMEP. Does one of you know - you know - that International Maritime Law is not about The Hague? Why doesn't anyone say so?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u87	We've said we're going to The Hague, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u88	You're making a mistake. The International Maritime Law is about Hamburg.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u89	In 2015, we said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u90	Please very much. You're going for a felony in an administrative court. You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u91	Yeah, but we've excluded it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u92	Don't go, don't make the mistake. It's not a random choice. I'm warning. For the Sea Pact, you're going to Hamburg, you're not going to The Hague. Attention, attention! And don't go to me for continental helmets and stories and twelve miles, you're going for the AOZ, only for the AOZ, because that's where we're gonna win. If you go to a continent, remember it to me, our country will lose, our Greece will lose. And I say it because the decisions of the particular tribunal in The Hague are not always the same. Malta, Libya, China, the Philippines. I give you examples to understand. It's not just things. Don't take The Hague. Mr. Loverdo, we're going to be beaten by the next generations because the children see us. They will say: so ignorant they were, so incompetent, so ignorant, didn't they think? If you want to go to court, you're going to Hamburg, because that's the competent court. The rest is fairy tales set by some, and I say it, to close this story here. In conclusion, I would like to say something, which is particularly interesting. I won't say about illegal immigrants. Mr. Loverdo, do you know the Minister of the Republic of Macedonia, as she calls herself? The "Macedonia Republic" is in introductory form for me, because it is Skopje. This lady is violating the shameful Embassy Agreement. This lady officially provoked. Why doesn't the government think it's unwanted in Greece? Mr. Kalafatis, every summer in Halkidiki, the lady is taking a bath. Every summer he comes to Halkidiki and makes bathtubs. To be unwanted in our homeland. Make a move of defensive and aggressive politics at the same time. She goes out undisturbedly and says herself "Macedonia Republic". Hey, do this. That's not what you're doing either. That is why I say that you are few, unfortunately, not Members of Parliament - to God - but your policy. It's your policy! And it is a policy, and I will say it once again, especially illegal immigration 'and listen to them here and fear them'. Fear the fake lefters, don't tell you you're extremists. Here Portugal, the most extreme neoliberal, agrees with the Greek Solution, that Ibrahim and Hassan go to the uninhabited islands this morning. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Is it that hard to make infrastructure? So difficult not to bother local society, not to fear that the citizen is in danger of contagious diseases, hepatitis and a whole lot of diseases? Another to be philanthropists from your pocket and another to make us pay to host Ibrahim and Hassan when our children, six hundred thousand Greeks, have left abroad. Christ and God bless you! And you have done above - down society: Remove Ministries, rebuild Ministries, plan, redesign, re-delete, remove, put Mitarakis away Chrysochide, put the other general. That means you don't have a plan. You can't! If you want to solve the problem, there are two - three axles: prevention, push back. The Geneva Agreement says so. I'll read it to you and close it with that. What the Geneva Agreement says. I'll read it to you, gentlemen. You use it very often, but you don't know it well. What does that deal say? Since there were turmoil in Lesvos and there were rebellious people - listen a little - it says Article 2 of the Geneva Agreement: "The obligation of every refugee to comply with the laws of the host state and the maintenance of public order is foreseen". Article 32: ‘Housing countries may deport refugees legally residing in the territory for reasons of national security or public order’. This refugee who throws stones on the police officer, Ibrahim and Hassan, to leave without delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u93	Deport.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u94	Has anyone gone? Deportation now, everybody, I told you! And mostly there's a push back. I can tell you how it's done and push back.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u95	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u96	I'll tell you now. If you're causing me, I'll tell you. Because we have a problem in our country, to interpret the conditions in how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u97	Complete, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u98	I'll be done. To be continued, we will continue another time. But I'll say this to close down here. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Vica, I know you're a sensitive man and a philanthropist.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u99	All of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u100	All of us. But listen, because you love us and we love you, I will tell you this: If you want to make charity, make it from your pocket, not from the Greek taxpayer's pocket. If you want to be philanthropists, Jesus Christ said if you have two thousand, you give one. The Greeks don't have a tunic and we tax him and we want him to pay both Ibrahim and Hassan. You're wrong. You're making a big mistake. First I'll look at the kids, have the dads and moms have bread to feed them, and then Ibrahim and Hassan. This is the view of the Greek Solution. First Greece, first the Greeks and then even the aliens, if I have money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u101	It is known in this House that from the above Western theory they attend the meeting, since they participated in the educational program "The King and Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-four students and students and two educational escorts from the 6th Kallitheas High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides]] Mr Loverdos, Parliamentary Representative, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u102	If it were not mentioned by Mr Velopoulos, the President of the Greek Solution, for something like treason, I would not take the floor because he has his views, we hear them, but we have ours too. I want to make two - three clarifications very briefly. First, the Convention on the Law of the Sea, the Montego Bay Convention of 1982, provides for a court to resolve disputes in this regard. However, at the same time, as we all know, there is the Court of The Hague, a court of prestige, which Greece has chosen with its explicit choice in 2014-2015 as a court for the resolution of its own various kinds, where Turkey only focuses on the continental shelf. That's the one, the very clean. The second, too, very clear, is that Greece has never submitted coordinates of the exclusive economic zone. The only relevant reference has been made in 2014 by Minister Manatis and Foreign Minister Venizelos, who tabled the law that we passed as PASOK government in 2011, where we identified points of our sovereign rights in the sea, south-west of Crete, where, obviously, Mr President, we have identified these and coordinates, but without having registered them in the United Nations. We have also sent the law to the United Nations Organization with these coordinates. The third and final one is that Cyprus has intended to agree on the limits of its Exclusive Economic Zone and Egypt. So it has closed issues with other countries in its region. As far as we are concerned, it has been reserved. On the relevant maps officially filed by the Cypriot Ministry of Foreign Affairs, she has her EOZ with disfellowshipped. In other words, Mr President, it is a matter of negotiation. Put things on the right basis. That's why I took the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, I would like the floor for a minute to reply to my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u104	Yes, Mr. Velopoulos. After the President, we will continue with the Members. There will be no further intervention. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u105	Because the good colleague, Mr. Loverdes, mentioned in the 2015 government policy to go to The Hague, I would remind him that politics is a dynamic situation. It's not static. So if the The Hague suits us, we'll go to The Hague. It's not the The Hague, and we're going to Hamburg. That's what I'm saying. I say we change tactics and politics. We can move to Hamburg. This is the obligation for International Maritime Law. I guess Mr. Loverdos didn't understand what I said. I did not say that Greece defined the coordinates. I said that after the intervention of George Papandreou Cyprus went easter five degrees. This also exists in a statement by the Cyprus Minister of Energy. And what happened then? The five degrees east give Turkey access to Egypt. Of course, I'll tell him something very simple: From such mistakes, we were driven here. From such mistakes, Greece was led to bankruptcy. And by such mistakes, we're leading to the collapse. We need to correct the mistakes and not say 'we made a mistake and go down'. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. What does that mean? It means establishing an EOI yesterday. To establish Greek EEZ now, to have a line of defense. That's what we say. And we insist on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u106	We will continue with five Members. Then the ministers will talk. Mr Panagis Capatos has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance we are discussing and voting on today contains urgent and necessary provisions. How, after all, could different interventions in the field of social protection and policy be identified? Both the increase in the amount of the social dividend and the prolongation of the extrajudicial system of debt regulation are policies for the weakest. Therefore, it can only be as urgent as it is necessary. For these two speeches I have chosen to be present today. The provisions of this draft law ratify the legislative act of 24 December 2019, concerning, inter alia, an increase of EUR 40 million in the amount of the social dividend for the year 2019, set at EUR 215 million, from 175 million currently in force. This is the choice of support for economically weak people and vulnerable households. It is the proof that the social sign of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is not just words of no content, but the core of our identity: none of our fellow citizens will be left alone. At the same time, we must not forget that, just last July, the government, not only did it not receive any financial space but found a gap of millions. This gap, not only did we cover it, but we also created an additional financial space, despite the fact that SYRIZA had rushed to share pre-election allowances. Talking about the past does not in any way respond to the challenges we face today. It helps, however, to see how we started and where we headed. In view of a clear social targeting, we are extending the social dividend to new categories of beneficiaries. We join them with families of which at least one member was disabled, households with at least four dependent children and an income of up to EUR 20,000, as well as households, to which one parent was long-term unemployed. With these interventions, the number of beneficiaries of the social dividend is calculated, according to the figures of the Independent Public Income Authority, to the three hundred and seven thousand citizens. With regard to the second step of the draft law, it is a question of extending the extrajudicial system of debt regulation to 30 April 2020. At that time it is expected to complete the preparation of an overall coherent framework for the settlement of debts of natural and legal persons. Of course, it is only by allowing more borrowers to apply for membership in this protective framework. But let us see the expected benefits of intervention at its core. The natural and legal persons active in Greece, given the decline in the economy suffered, accumulated significant debts both to the banking and to the public sector. The existence of a process - for the purpose of restructuring - simplified and coherent, is therefore considered important and necessary. The extension we are voting on, which concerns the regulation of the debts of businesses, of the fellow workers and of the professions, acts as an encouragement to our fellow citizens to seek their integration into this beneficial mechanism. We facilitate weak citizens and professionals by using a simplified procedure that exploits the possibilities offered by the electronic platform. We give our fellow citizens the opportunity to settle the difficulties they have encountered cumulatively and attempt a new beginning. Besides, this is the quinturity of public policy, not to prevent citizens from trying, trying again, shaping their professional lives as they wish and most importantly, even if they fail, not to stigmatize, but to be able to stand back on their feet by redesigning their steps. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of any governmental initiative on social policy is - or at least must - to be able to respond to the time-consuming demand for freedom and solidarity, for citizens to settle their homes and for solidarity with our weak and weaker citizens. When this relationship is sufficiently included in our legislation, then and only then are we able to form a framework of social protection sufficient, effective and sustainable. These principles are in line with this draft law, and that is why I invite you to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u108	Thank you. Mr Socrates Famelos from SYRIZA has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is time today to welcome Mr Gerapetiti' s good legislation, which has left us time, because today in an act of law-making the government has managed to have a high score, to have eighteen amendments and even one of them, of 'Larco', to have fourteen important articles. But let's take an amendment to the Ministry of Justice. In this amendment, therefore, the government which, if you remember, a maximum of eighteen months for the freezing of assets for those involved in black money and in financial crime and had put the smokescreen on the responsible court for three months, in order to place them in a position to ratify these acts, is coming today and changing it. Congratulations! Then even the "FINANCIAL TIMES" had noted you and exposed the country internationally on the relationship between political operation and economic crime. And you are now coming to confirm what we and what the international press have said. However, there is a crucial question. This time how many testimonies have been released from those involved in economic crime? For that is what the government must answer, because it is responsible for the release of the deposits. And we wonder how many more amendments you will bring to cover yourself and your flaws. Because the final state has, too, been amended by too many amendments. But it's really very important. How many cases under this amendment have already been brought to an end to the freezing of accounts? And for how many did the government finally provide for? But you will allow me to refer a little more to issues relating to LARCO, because, unfortunately, the press release of the Ministry of the Environment - which I have already said to the Minister responsible - and also to the position of the Minister of Finance, the Government has chosen, through these instruments, to put falsely and misleadingly on the subject of LARCO. In other words, she concealed everything she was concerned about and concealed her responsibility, and I think it is at least a disgrace - because we know each other in this country and we also know you as political persons - to lie to cover your own responsibilities. In 2012, therefore, the European Commission opened the issue and launched a preliminary examination of State aid, namely April 2012. Who was government then? Was that SYRIZA? No, of course not. On 27 March 2014, notified to the Hellenic Republic, the question of State aid was raised. It was a 2014 decision. Was the SYRIZA government? No, of course not. In correspondence from the European Commission with the country, who was not responding, Mr Stavoura? He was the one who chose the hairstick plan, that is, Mr Stavros. Mr. Stagiras chose the plan that his own administration of LARCO considered to be at the expense of both the interests of the country and of LARCO, and he did not reply to the European Commission, which he was asking in 2014 alone. See dates: 28 May 2014, 23 June 2014, 18 July 2014. And they say that they are unable to inform the European Commission. These are documents, Mr. Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u110	Can you testify, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u111	Apart from the decision of the Management Board on hairmaking, I then come then - at the same time - in the first phase. So she does not talk about Mr Stavros. What do we got? Therefore, during the period of application of the 2014 Agreement, ‘LARCO creditors’ who had registered the debt of ‘LARCO’ by pre-notifications, have legal claims. So, too, the debts to third parties, Mr Stakoura, have also been created on your own government, as have the very great problems of overcompensation from your own decisions on electricity. And who had the recital of mismanagement in LARCO? Let's see. LARCO was convicted of what actions? That he received a loan of 30 million in 2008? We're talking about state aid. That he got a loan of 10 million in 2010? That he obtained a loan of 30 million and 20 million in 2011? That it also increased the share capital of 45 million, which was considered to be State aid? Does the European Commission therefore consider actions which are incompatible with the rules of the European market? Your own governments, which you hide in order to hide your own responsibility. And that's not all. The same company is appointed to take'scar of mismanagement' because it is Oscar days, New Democracy officials - yes or no? - former MPs - yes or no? -, relatives of Ministers and Members of the New Democracy - yes or no? - who manage to sell at a cost of $22,000 the product $10,000. This is the bad management recital, and all of this is with the names of political persons who have also been in this Chamber and have been running in those years. Not to say about how many families were appointed to the bodies of "LARCO", about how many executives associated with political persons of the New Democracy have received service contracts and not to say on another major issue, which has fallen to our attention. Mr. Stavoura, we read and want the confirmation from you. In the period 2013-2014, when you were Deputy Minister of Economy and because you were from Fthiotida, the fact is that thirty-two employees in Larco are also being promoted by two hundred fifty-two recruited in a company, which already had a convicted decision on State aid and which had serious damage and mismanagement problems, why did it sell much cheaper than production costs? These are the real facts. What did we do? We therefore, within a framework of restrictions with our institutions over our head for the bankruptcy that you, Mr. Staikora, and Mr. Hatzidakis and the rest of you have led Greece, because some have bankrupt our country in 2010, we come and do the following: We reach a framework agreement on the debts of LARCO to PPC. We're ensuring a better price of electricity. We're adjusting the total debt. We are making a new supply contract of "LARCO" with PPC. We are starting actions on the solution which is not proprietary and there is a document from the Legal Council of State that proves this. And we are starting the debate with the 'DG Comp', where we say - and Mr Tsakalotos - that your haircut plan cannot be implemented, which was said by the board of directors of LARCO - that it is not a question of competition from the European Commission - we have not heard it from your lips, yet that immediate liquidation is not possible - that State aid must be recalculated and, of course, as the President of SYRIZA did yesterday, said, that this solution, which we are discussing, must be ensured that the operation of the operation is carried out. The operation of the investment company in the field of the environment, with a long-term perspective, with a guarantee of work and job security, because, unfortunately, we have too many accidents, with public supervision and involvement, because we are talking about national mineral wealth and about an undertaking which is of an export character, a large local footprint and of great importance to the national product. Do we find all this in this amendment? Unfortunately, Mr President - and I conclude - what the New Democracy Government has brought today has two words that matter, because all the others are wishful: firstly, the salaries of 25% are reduced for all categories and not just for the high-wage people, because the high-wages are your ruffles, Mr Staikora. Secondly, does it lead to compulsory bankruptcy of the company in 12 months if it does not transfer 75% of the shares, so do you necessarily think that in 12 months, both the transfer and the transfer of the company and the PPC will be completed, but also the National Bank? It therefore signifies bankruptcy and possibly the sale of LARCO's assets after bankruptcy. They are the only clear steps you describe in, because all the rest are not simply impracticable, up to three days in a court invitation, but it also provides for a discharge of responsibility for those involved in this scenario. It goes on to wash out people who will be involved in selling public wealth, property and questioning and work and development. That is exactly what is happening in this bill, Mr President and honourable Members. And all this through a lie that the Ministry of the Environment said it and in his recommendation the Minister withdrew and hide all the responsibilities they had for the previous period. That is why you see us being obliged to say publicly who was to blame for LARCO at the end of the day. We therefore want the plant to function, because the model of mismanagement, nepotism, family rule, non-transaction, unfair contracts with PPC and the ruptures and staff injustices were the scenario of the New Democracy, which now wants to apply it, because that is all there is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u112	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u113	Finally, Mr President, just one word for another amendment, because the Minister for the Environment is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u114	One word, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u115	Samaria and the amendment you are bringing about for Samaria are something that should have been solved, with the implementation by N.4605. You didn't. But there has been an inconvenience from the management body, as far as I know, since August, for not listening again. I think that you will open up a little thing there, but the issue with Samaria needs to be resolved. I do not know if you have contacted the municipalities about the redistribution of resources. However, to bring about regulation that violates the building regulation on ESDPs and ESDPs, that is, from the back door to put another diversion, yet to overcome, at the expense of individuals, at the expense of the citizens - because all citizens cannot go too far for the Greek and for all the projects that you have in mind, you are in breach of the building regulation - you must explain that to us. Because you take responsibility for the environment and the public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the General School of Diastom Boeotia Beach. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Kegeroglu Vasiliou has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] I want to thank both the New Democracy Government and SYRIZA today and the other speakers for highlighting some of the great truths that have to do with the PASOK project and its enormous contribution to this country, but also the need today to adopt the policies that PASOK, the Change Movement, insists that they are necessary for both the country and society. I am referring in particular to the issue of 'Larco', and, secondly, the issue of the ESA and, thirdly, the question of the irreversible decision of the Minister of Labour to abolish the provision of the law for reduced insurance contributions, the possibility of reduced insurance contributions from mothers who have given birth up to a year since birth. All three issues are referred to before 2004. The ECHR, we fought and kept it, even within the crisis, through negotiations that were not easy. Then came the SYRIZA government and abolished it. On the subject of LARCO, for the first time, and only after the project of the PASOK government, in 2004, it had managed to cover what we are saying deficits and produce more than its operating costs. And it's also a topic that really proves that management by people who choose the public is not pre-emptive and de facto useless, because it depends on the people it chooses and what plan they serve. So we have seen this then, between 2004 and 2009, but also in the next period, with other administrations, become a leaf and a feather, all this success that has been at that time. And yes, we agree, Minister, that this has become a mess in 2015-2019, but this is a reality for which SYRIZA was judged and will be judged further, but it cannot be an alibi for you. Can it not continue to depreciate LARCO and any public body, with the sole aim and purpose of 'what to do'? In order to save jobs, it must be sold, without conditions and conditions, without guarantees.' It cannot be an alibi to you. The other issue that emerged concerns the need for Greece to acquire a national line. Every fellow Member and President of the European Parliament is coming out and he says his views. However, Greece cannot prove what it is in fact, that it does not have a national strategy and that the Prime Minister does not take the initiative, as the previous one did, and we then accused him of shaping this national line. Turkey has gone from words to action. Creates femininely, Greece follows every event to see how it will ball them. We must end yesterday in this policy of normalisation. The Change Movement insists, Fofi Gennimata has repeatedly asked for political leaders' consultation and not only, but also on the basis of specialist scientists and people who each party and government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have at its disposal to form the national line. It's not enough what we did until before. I now come to another very important issue, which has also been discussed today and which brings PASOK back to the forefront and the proposal of the Change Movement. Law 3869. Yes, Mr Georgiadis, we insist that there should be absolute protection of the first residence for our weak fellow citizens, for households who have been in a difficult position and cannot serve their loans if they fulfil the conditions, to join the relevant provisions of the law. And that was foreseen by Law 3869 and thousands of households were protected. And this was provided for by the law that we brought and applied, too, together with SYRIZA, you have effectively abolished. That is why I am telling you that today we will have to see again this proposal that we have tabled to you. And for there to be no misinterpretation, the ban that was probably in place until 2013 for auctions up to 200 thousand was general, was not about the first residence. It was general for auctions that had requirements up to 200 thousand and there was a general ban. That's not what we're talking about. We are talking about a protection system, which will give rights, but it also imposes obligations. Yeah, it's a social need. That is why we tabled specific proposals and mentioned four key points in these proposals: First point: Banks when selling loans or transferring their management to management companies and receivables must, in addition, also inform them of the sale price or transfer price of the loan with the other terms. It's critical, it's the borrower's power to negotiate. Second point: Before selling the loan by the bank it is required to inform the borrower of its right to redeem the loan in an amount which is up to 20% higher than the price it has agreed or intends to sell the loan to a management company. This procedure can also be applied after the transfer of the loan. Therefore, for thousands of transfers of loans made to private companies for debt and debt management, the government should now, by law, force the banks to inform the borrowers at what price they have been sold. Secondly, the possibility of buying at this price plus 20% should be allowed. I shall also mention two points and I shall conclude. Each borrower of a non-performing loan, as well as any guarantor, who holds a residence of up to a hundred and twenty (120) square metres, with an adaptation to the members of his family, is entitled to the absolute protection of his residence by auctioning, subject to conditions relating to his financial situation, i.e. the assets and income criteria to be laid down by the law. A fourth point is: if the borrower has any other property - and I am not referring to production property - he is entitled, of course, to ask for the protection of his first residence through a judicial procedure, given that the rest of the property can be decided by the court that he is being liquidated. This decision of the court, of course, will determine the other terms and the amount of the instalment for the redeployment of the loan. So simple and fair! So simple and so effective! We've done it, we've moved on. Instead of correcting the problems that have been identified in the past by this procedure, because no procedure is without problems, you are coming and you are completely abolishing protection. Do what SYRIZA did. Don't do the same. It's wrong. And then we talked about it, and now we tell you. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u118	Thank you. Mr Pafile, the Secretary of the Communist Party has asked for the floor. You want me to give the floor to the ministers and then...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u119	He will speak after two speakers, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u120	Okay. Thank you. Mr George Marinos from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Stavoura, I would like to say that the words of sensitivity are words of air, because as a Member of Parliament, you are involved in a government that today signs the death of LARCO. The responsibilities are too great and will be blamed. The Government of New Democracy, Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Stagira, brings the amendment - an abortion and clears the "LARCO", to cut it up, sell the factory in Larymna, mines and mineral wealth and close the company. Because that's where your plan leads! You press on the ground that the government of SYRIZA and the previous governments have set you up and commit a premeditated crime against the thousands of two hundred employees of the company, against the people of Central Greece and the working class. LARCO is not yours, a family business. Workers have spit out blood, they have experienced unrelenting exploitation and have mourned dozens of dead, under the responsibility of your own policy. The Communist Party of Greece requires the withdrawal of the amendment - 'intropic' you bring, turns you back as unacceptable and will fight the government plan together with the workers and the people of Central Greece with what means it has. This is the decision of the tens of thousands of workers who protested on Saturday, 25 January in Athens and proclaimed, “Down down from LARCO”.” This is the decision of the business workers who are fighting, who are currently strikers with the people next to them. The Government shall implement the 2014 European Union Solvent Plan. She's provocatively slandering the workers. In order to go through the abolition of the collective agreement and the reduction of 25% of workers' wages, which take them off by working in extremely dangerous and hard conditions in Larymna and in the mines of Evia, Boeotia, the Serbs, everywhere. You are dissolving, gentlemen, a strategically important undertaking, the only one in the European Union, which produces iron and steel through the processing of its own ores. And it could have been in the hands of the people, with their own power, that it was a treasure to exploit the country's mineral wealth to support the economy on the basis of popular needs. You are using provocatively convoys of feasibility. You are talking about debts, debts to PPC and the fine to the European Union, but you are hiding that the New Democracy, the PASOK and SYRIZA have picked up LARCO, to give her to the great interests. You've all agreed to privatization. And we'd say SYRIZA left the crocodile tears! The government refuses to answer. Did LARCO pay or not, over time, pay the electricity consumption more than other energy-intensive undertakings? Has the New Democracy Government doubled or has the electricity price already increased in 2006? Your Government and PPC owe much to LARCO. It is not the responsibility of the LARCO. In the period 2005-2007, ‘LARCO’ records more than EUR 400 million forgone, because the administration appointed by New Democracy had pre-saled the product to the customers of the company at half the price of the nickel at the time. Who's gonna pay for this? In 2009, the State, as the main shareholder of ‘LARCO’, increased its share capital and entered a guarantor into loans - did not finance the company - which was repaid by LARCO. And in 2013 the European Competition Committee loads the fine of EUR 136 million. Today you are using the guidelines of the European Union, so that LARCO is not financed, and you know - and you are well aware - that in December 2019 the European Commission approved state funding for seven Member States - members of the European Union in a consortium of seventeen companies to support it in the competition race. With so-called 'development laws', with funding and a large number of tax exemptions, all governments have billions of euros in the monopolistic groups. Reply why you have not used the stocks of chromium and ferro-nickel for the production of stainless steel that you have so far entered. Same goes for the cobalt. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Removable low productivity, but you have a responsibility. The governments of the New Democracy and the other governments deliberately refused modernisation. You have privatised businesses with high productivity, because this is the strategy of capital and the European Union you are serving. You're privatising the ports, the shipyards. You are bringing an amendment to the extension by ten years of the concessions of the regional ports under the SYRIZA law to give them to individuals. You are bringing an amendment to the privatisation of the Scaramaga shipyard. Your development is for the few, for the capitalists, it's against the workers. You have arrived, Mr Hatzidakis, to invoke the accidents at work, the seventy dead workers of "Larko" - we have experienced them for all these decades - to pass your plans. And the killer is the anti-government policy that refused to take the necessary measures to protect workers' lives. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The state is the main shareholder, along with PPC and the National Bank. LARCO can be financed, continued its operation, modernised, secure jobs and labour rights. The government, Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Stakoura - who has left - will not easily clean up! The workers of LARCO, who had victorious struggles, such as the great strike of 1977, are baked in difficulties and will resolutely claim their right to work, their rights, strengthening their unity and struggle, with the support of the people of Central Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u122	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u123	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would like to note something: it is a shocking feature of the presence and announcement of the pupils of the high school and of the high school of Martin, who stood close to the workers and stressed, 'We express our sympathy for the struggle between our parents'. The race will get old features and these monstrous anti-game designs will find against the workers of the region and the whole country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u124	Mr Constantine Boubas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have divided Greek society into pedestrians and patriots, so-called horses. Only the non-preferentials are far more than the privileged ones. In order to open a page for any Greek industry, we must definitely see its past. Before I go, however, on the subject of LARCO and PPC, I would like to say that yesterday we approved the Minamata Mercury Agreement, this martyrical Japanese city poisoned by the plastic factory in the homonymous bay that operated from 1950 to 1968. We have to clarify, because there is one concern in the area of dentistry: if people start paying a lot by putting cases in place, if these traditional black seals are abolished, the amalgams have to be said, because there is confusing information. You know, the resins, the synthetics, can't cover the teeth cavities based on dentistry, because they can't move to the gums. Today only in Denmark, Norway and Sweden, these seals have been banned. If that happens gradually, we can talk about it. But we must reassure the Greek people, because there is concern in the dental sector. Not to "blood" again to Skopje and Bulgaria with what that implies. This is as a small parentheses, as yesterday we did not have the opportunity to place ourselves on traditional seals and amals. I come to the issue of first residence. Already, if you enter sites, you will see that some legal offices call on the Greeks to protect their first residence - but there are some ambiguities - over Law 3869, the notorious "Katelis Law". We're going to social injustices. If anyone has set up a debt arrangement for his first residence, finds a seasonal job and raises his income, it is next and logical, ladies and gentlemen, for the required dose, as it was in the arrangement, either with Katselis or with this law now - I do not know what clarifications there will be to protect his first residence - he must pay more. That's what makes sense. If, however, this man is relegated to unemployment, or his work is a certain amount of work and a certain amount of time, he cannot be relegated to regulation. We need to relaunch legal procedures for joining. That means time, it means money, it means money and paradoxically in court. This is a sad example of injustice. I asked a lot of lawyers who told me I was right. What is the point, however, when the Greek people are being violated the right to be able to support him by a state against a job which is either seasonal or which will lose it again? Do you realize what we're talking about? We're going a little now to what Mr. Stavros said. You know, where the numbers prosper, people suffer, which says the saying in the world. I want the numbers to be for the benefit of people. As far as the auctions are concerned, one third went to the extrajudicial mechanism. Another third was auctions. The other third where did he go? I don't know. He didn't give us an answer. Look for Nicoluli! I don't know. He's in the middle of a press investigation. We're talking numbers. Let's go to PPC. PPC when it was established - Mr. Hadjidakis knows - purchased twenty-eight private companies. In fact, the last company was purchased by a hydroelectric dam in the capital of Achaia, Patras. I want to ask this: Do you know what this privatisation of PPC means? People who currently owe 200 euros to PPC accept, even in hours of public silence, messages and phone calls from lawyers, as I have reported, to go to regulate the debts. This is to people who don't owe much, but 100 euros, 200 euros, 250 euros. And I ask: If, at the time the call on personal data is received, the elderly debtor goes up the pressure, the sugar, and he finds himself in hospital, who will cover him for the health problem of the person taking the time 3 at noon by a lawyer? That, Minister, began a month and a half ago. I want a PPC that has a social profile for small debts, for microprojectors. We're not talking about the big timers. Where is the social person toward people who may be hospitalized at home, even with oxygen bottles? Let's go to LARCO. Let me remind you a little of Thanasula's case, how does LARCO lose money from the stock market, as it did not monitor it, enough money? So, following the economic aspect of 'LARCO', I see that as each company is a devastated line. It seems to me, however, that the company presented profits in 2012 and suddenly reconsults in 2013. Have you wondered how much LARCO was paying PPC? But she didn't care, you're gonna tell me why she didn't pay them. That's why they accumulated up to 350 million to its shareholder. And the shareholders were PPC, the National Bank and the GOI. Take a look at the composition. We are talking about the old 'LARCO' and the new 'LARCO'. LARCO was founded in 1963 by Prodromos Athanasiadis and Bodossakis. It was fine. But he had a big blasting accident in 2009. That played a part. Before I go to the workers to say that at my youth I have worked hard, unhealthy work with a oxygen mask, in the phosphate fertilizer industry with arsenic poison, and I know what an unhealthy profession means with multiple health problems. Only employees in LARCO are divided into so-called contractors and non-contractors. In the event of an accident, contractors have no cover for their families. It is a myth to say how much of the workers are being paid high at 'LARCO'. LARCO, therefore, paid up to EUR 70 a kilowatt when competing companies paid it EUR 25 to EUR 30. It is a clean-blooded Greek company and I'm afraid it doesn't have the future of PPCINE in Aspra Houses of Boeotia, where since 1963 it has been through good times but it is 100% Greek. It's exportable. Our territory is that wealth of nickel. Of course, there is also the battery cobalt, which our President has said, which will play an important role in electric mobilization in the future. So let's see why the company has come up here, how we sell a company, how we can privatize it when it's 100% of our own, with Greek engineers, this exportable product, but also which individual will get it, when we are watching the metal stock exchange in England today, and the tone cannot exceed 14,000 dollars, when LARCO's cost is $20,000. In other words, the private investor must cover a deficit of 6,000 dollars. Who's buying it? I'm not talking about it. The industrialists themselves say that it will be a crime and tragedy to sell a company, a business since 1963, from Bodossakis, who has given workers a bread under cruel, tragic and inhumane conditions, often to give it to a private citizen and to lose national sovereignty. As far as lignite is concerned, however, we will have great unemployment in western Macedonia. And we must tell the Greek people the truth. Above all, however, there will be a social explosion if we do not protect the Greek's first residence. Can't we know? This is where Mr Staruras from the hundreds of thirty-one thousand has come to say that only two thousand are entitled to protection of the first home. To look at how many people have lost their jobs in couples, they have rediscovered a temporary job, where today, with so-called "surface unemployment", supermarkets and other businesses employ four-hour part-time workers, and they actually employ eight hours, of which four hours are "black and spider", without putting the required signals. And then let us show that unemployment has declined! If we do not show a social sensitivity to the Greek who suffers, alas, for our first residence, ladies and gentlemen, as our home, because it is the pottery, the shelter, the oasis of Greek citizens, for them and for the next generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the General School of Diastom Boeotia Beach (second section). We welcome you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Adonis Georgiadis, has the floor for the amendment of a general number 161 and a specialist of 40.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u127	Thank you very much, Mr President and Mr Secretary-General for letting me precede you. We are making an amendment completely parametric. I will read this part that changes: "The calculation of the three-year period determined as a limit for the above restrictions is improved with a reference point now specified when the application is submitted". That is, in development law, in development projects it was three years since a project was incorporated, otherwise you were declaring. Now we've been doing it three years since the submission. Why did that happen? Because in the crisis too many investment projects could not be implemented and were stuck so those who had applications before, because of a time limit, cannot continue their plan. So we actually add a year, counting three years on submission. That's the change we're making. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] The urgency of the matter - I would like to explain why we have brought it as an amendment and did not come to a regular bill - is that the deadline for submitting proposals for the second cycle of the Small Business Development Act, with the extensions we have given, on 28 February, and we want those who have plans to submit within the second cycle, to have time to submit them and not to be wronged because we did not have time to bring the bill. That is why we are bringing it in as an amendment and have not brought it in properly. If there's a question, I'd be happy to answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much. The Secretary-General of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment that we are talking about the main is the LARCO to be saved whole and not just parts of it, divided or trimed. At the moment we are talking about 'LARCO' must not be sold out in private capital, domestic or foreign. Right now that LARCO's workers are on the way. Yesterday they made a universal, great strike in Larymna, in all places, while today they were on the highway of Martin, claiming their work and life. At this time when we are talking in this House about a genuinely infamous amendment, the only serious, the only sensible act to be done by the House is to immediately withdraw this amendment which undermines the future of the workers, but also of the country itself. LARCO is not an undertaking. LARCO is one of the flagships of the Greek economy. LARCO belongs to the workers, to the Greek people. The lies and slanders must be finished against the workers. They are moved by the rulers, the respective owners, the individual extremists of power who appoint them to go bankrupt "LARCO" and give it as a fillet to foreign or domestic moneys of economic fair interests. All these lacquers - because they do not have less talk than that - demolish the families of the hundreds of Larco's dead who fell into the altar of capitalist profit and the continuous depreciation of production. Really, from the Christmas turkey or the Easter lamb - if these are given too - to eat the miner worker's family, the furnace-cooked worker every day, three hundred sixty-five days a year, years, has LARCO fallen out? The average wages, the wage costs you are saying, which you take off and you pass them on to your friendly channels and journalists, you take them not from those who are in production, the overwhelming majority of the workers, but counting both your own bearers and those who bring you to the government chair, those whose governments were appointed and appointed as administration, as staff, as high-ranking personnel, to control both the workers and to faithfully follow the policy that has led up here. Today more than 80% of the employees in Larco get around EUR 1,000, EUR 900, EUR 950, EUR 1,100, EUR 1,200, in tragic conditions. You who rule and those who come in to manage this case are responsible solely for the company's deception. It's not your fault, it's their family. The workers for one thing can only be held responsible, that they do not send you politically to the unscrupulous anyone who manages the fates of LARCO, the fate of the economy, the fate of this people. On the same route, of course, you go together to tell the truth to the Greek people, New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK. And don't start whining again about not seeing the differences between you guys. These are as much to agree on both the depreciation of LARCO and the sale of LARCO. For a private person, you've all been looking for all these years. That is why you are gradually and firmly depriving the public 'LARCO'. That's why you're slandering the workers at her. The right of workers not to take the privatisation of LARCO, which puts jobs directly at risk and will exacerbate the already smashed employment relationships, all of you are whistling. In the New Democracy, the Minister for Finance, Mr Stavros, throws the ball at the Minister for the Environment and Energy Hatzidakis, because he himself is a Member of the Fthiotidas - you see - and he will have no place to stand with this policy within the Law of Fthiotida. That is why he says in the hallways and as half the people in the region, in Lamia, to the trade unions of Larco in Larymna, but also to the discussions within here. Mr Tsipras, in the face of the legal request of the association for non-privateisation at his recently meeting, responded only with the general principles for continuing to operate under private individuals, with the number of employees, the collective agreement, as if someone were against them, if they were finally sold. He went directly - again as a realisticist, supposedly - in the next phase and addressed to the prospective future buyer to do his packages as well now, with broad outlines and various recommendations. We do not all know exactly who they are addressing. Perhaps in the 'MYTILINE', although this group, as we read, has, apparently, withdrawn. Perhaps they are addressed to GSOL, the Global Special Opportunities Ltd, which has already been published, is not ours. By the way, it is a fund of great economic interests and it is what the nickel factory in northern Macedonia took without bothering you that this company will control most of the world's nickel production, which, not least, is the sole shareholder that appears behind the "IRON & METALS", which runs a leading strain of Britain's conservative party. This is the company which has indicated to the Government of Guinea the alleged Israeli billionaire Steinic to grant it a large mine of iron ore when his own deal was cancelled because of his referral to a hatred scandal. Beautiful world, moral, angelic, fake! In the end, however, to explain ourselves, it is not so important who will buy and exploit the wealth of the country, the one produced by the Greek people, nor is the principal, gentlemen of SYRIZA, whether it will be one or two or three of the buyers concerned, as you say to us. Besides, you know very well how these jobs are done in the capitalist rot. It's very easy to play each other's toys all three of them right away, or maybe it's one: There's in the laws, as you see and you know too well, lots of windows and legitimate scams and get caught in them. They're more awake and more experienced than you, New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK. All those who care about are how to eat, how to disguise the workers, how to put all our wealth into hand. The JRC, belonging to fair demands, to the fair fight of LARCO workers, calls for an immediate withdrawal of the proposed amendment. LARCO is a strategically important ferro-nickel production company, the largest of its kind in the European Union, with a thousand two-two employees. There is therefore only one solution: to support it here and now and continue to operate under public control, to modernise and to ensure the right of work and the other rights of all, without exception, of the workers. From this point of view, the JRC rejects and condemns the government's plan to clear, reduce workers' wages by 25%, privatization or closure. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill also contains other 'gifts' to capital, such as the amendments concerning the concession of the Scaramaga shipyards and the extension of the concession of the regional ports for fifty years that are today, by the law of SYRIZA, to sixty, to make the divestment more attractive. With the amendment, in addition to the shipyard area, you are giving a package for exclusive use and the pier 4 and the cauliflower area that is not exploited by the shipyards and is the result of illegal blockages by the previous "saves" investors of the shipyards. In fact, these are the latest details in order to open the tender for the sale of the total complex of Skaramagha ships like those we have seen in previous years, and there is no guarantee of the labour rights and jobs of the eight hundred and thirty workers. Now, there's experience. The privatization policy, the shipyards' exposure to international competition has gradually led to the decline of the industry, the deterioration of the largest shipyards in Greece. The consequences of the privatisation course are not only limited to the removal of stable jobs, labour and insurance rights for workers. They are also concerned with the defence of sovereign rights, the orientation of domestic production, a problem which is intensified in the context of the dangerous imperialist planning, as illustrated by the example of the shipyards in Syros, where shipyards are already being exploited as bases of the United States and with the possibility of building Israeli warships there. Workers have nothing positive to expect and must not be fooled by dilemmas from the new assurances of the government. The amendment gives, among other things, an area of two hundred and twenty acres, which has been claimed for years by the people of Western Athens to satisfy their needs, in free areas where the hosting structure of Skaramaga refugees is currently established. It is typical of the time-consuming privatisation that, despite the announcements made by the previous government of SYRIZA for concession to the Municipality of Heidari and despite the unanimous decisions of the City Council, in 2018 it was declared as a single space with the pier 5 from the EBRD, while according to the recommendation of its new CEO, its integration with the shipyard complex will create an attractive investment package. In other words, it will obviously be friendly for the large investors, the large-scale ones, who certainly ensure profit through fast-track procedures, but hostile to the people as a whole and to their needs. This amendment also relates to the particular area, where in 2016 one of the largest refugee hospitality centres was installed, despite the then reservation of the municipal authority for the inappropriateness of the area in terms of the human living conditions of thousands of outdated refugees especially in winter. It is unacceptable that there should be no reference to the operation of the hosting centre, which is another proof of the dangerous policy pursued by the Government of New Democracy. And this amendment, like the Ports amendment, shows that the New Democracy is continuing the unstable policy of the former. In Scaramaga, the SYRIZA government has shaped the terms and the package for the concession to proceed now, following the Government of New Democracy, and in the ports the previous government has granted the regional ports for fifty years and the New Democracy is now coming to extend this concession to sixty years in order to make the divestment even more attractive. One cuts, the other sews. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece is being alarmed.]] We call on the workers to organize their struggle, not to pinch in old and new dilemmas against both the privatisation of the Scaramaga shipyard and the ports. Ensure stable work, with the protection of the health and safety of workers, modern labour rights. To call for the exploitation of the shipbuilding industry and its infrastructure and ports, based on the modern potential of technology, of science in order to really satisfy the people's needs. To render the pier 4 and the saint for the benefit of the people of western Athens, as he claims for decades, by refreshing, by creating modern leisure spaces, for all workers and their families. So all these government amendments should be withdrawn immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, these developments are at the forefront and this is a great contradiction: on the one hand, the enormous real opportunities that our country has to develop businesses and infrastructure crucial to the well-being of the people, on the other hand, these opportunities are being undermined, whether they are granted to exploitation, to profit from big capital. The solution to this contradiction is the JRC's proposal, so that companies of strategic importance such as LARCO, such as various infrastructures, ports and shipyards, become truly popular property. Only in this way will they really be placed at the service of the workers and the development of the country, which will focus on the real people's needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u131	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u132	For two points I would like to make: one was put by a previous colleague, it concerns an amendment on the three-month extension for the judiciary. I want it to be quite clear that there is no question of releasing assets relating to serious, criminal acts. Article 15 of Law No 4637/2019 stipulates that within three months the provisions of the President of the authority in the old cases shall be forwarded to the competent judicial body for judgment. Such judicial bodies and the safeguards of judicial authority shall decide whether or not to maintain the asset freeze operation, without any time limit and in accordance with the guarantees of the law. It is therefore only necessary to pass the cases on to the competent courts within the quarter. The three-month deadline for a transmission, as it was until November and now, for another three-month extension, becomes sufficient. However, in order to avoid the slightest possibility of a case not being transmitted, we extend the quarter for another quarter. On this issue, the Ministry of Finance, as the central coordinating body in matters relating to the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, has been in place since November 2019, at the crucial point in the vote on that provision, a SYRIZA colleague, in constant communication and consultation with all internationally involved bodies, which are who? What we call for, that is, the European Commission, and IMF, the International Monetary Fund. These bodies - instead of what my colleague said - have welcomed the information and cooperation with the Greek authorities. They accepted the Greek side's substantiated position, as it entered into the order in November - and not only because some of the opposition and journalists insist - I was also sent a letter yesterday, saying in the morning'misunderstanding' at least, by journalists and some MPs. So we are completely covered as a country against these issues. Secondly, and lastly. Because the President has been mentioned, I want to be very clear. I shall submit to the minutes the letter I received today from the CEO of the EBRD, from Mr. Vlastos. Since 2011 - we have been talking about the Scaramaga shipyards - the EBRD has been managing and managing the area to which you refer as the successor of the CEDEFOP. In this respect, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The relevant right has been transferred since 2018 to the EBRD and is found in the Heidari Mortgage Transfer Books. Therefore, the asset is officially in ETAD and from the mortgage center, has administrative autonomy and since 1960 until 2018 this area was an integral operational part of the shipyards, where underwater construction and maintenance activities and other means are carried out by the Hellenic Navy. In the "Box 5" and more specifically in pier IV, you mentioned, Mr. General, boats are framed and repaired, as well as landings and landings. It is therefore impossible to exclude these assets - I will submit the letter from the EBRD today, please - from any future intervention and investment. And be careful, for security reasons too, because it cannot operate a shipyard of military and commercial interest and, at the same time, in the adjacent area, some want to have uncontrolled commercial activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, too. Mr Dimitrios Economou has the floor for an amendment. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. There are two articles in the amendment. The first is to extend for a year the management of the National Dragon of Samarias, by the Forests Department of Chania, Decentralized, which has experience of 50 years in this process. I don't think there's any problem. Also under the same arrangement, the percentages of the municipalities are redistributed on the revenues from tickets to the National Park that they are expected to pass on to the municipalities. They are distributed on the basis of the best proportion between the size of each municipality within the National Park and the amount it receives. Now, the second amendment concerns NOK, the New Construction Regulation. Today - and for years - there has been a provision in the new building regulation that provides that buildings of public interest and importance may, by way of derogation, be differentiated by the Architecture Board's opinion, by the limits of excavations or terrain when it comes to the formation of uncovered areas. That has been true for years. What the amendment does is that it also carries this possibility to strategic investments. Since the moment it applies to buildings, which are not strategic investments. Enlarging the scope and strategy for investment, I think it is the most obvious and necessary one. If anyone objects, of course, to the basis of this possibility, to the derogation, then from the previous government could at least have abolished the possibility of non-strategic buildings and investments. In addition, some suggestions have been made about the ESRB and the ESRB, i.e. the urban tools through which strategic investments are promoted. And that I don't understand. If the JRC were to object, I would understand that because it has a consistently negative view of these tools. But, once all parties that have ruled over the last decade have used the CSCE and the CSCE have not abolished this tool, I do not understand the question of the importance and usefulness of this tool. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u135	Mr President, may I ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u136	As a parliamentarian, of course. Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u137	One question asked by Mr Famello I would like to ask: If the municipalities in the case of the Samaria National Park are aware and have agreed on the redistribution that you have agreed. That's all you can tell us. If they're in agreement or if they're aware. It may not be, but we'd like you to tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u138	When the time comes, the Minister will answer you. So before I give the floor to Mr. Apostle, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, I beg your pardon, can the Minister answer us now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u140	Of course, if the Minister wants to, let him answer now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u141	It has been in consultation with the decentralised administration which manages this possibility. But, as I told you, the redistribution between the municipalities is in proportion to their territorial extent within the canyon, so it makes sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u142	Do they know that? That's what we're asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u143	Yes, but there is no dialogue. Answer it. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-nine students and students and twelve educational attendants from the 2nd Arsadeios High School of Psychics, as part of the ERASMUS Educational Program. The House welcomes you and wishes you good progress. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Apostolos now has the floor, from the beautiful Evia and of course from SYRIZA, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have one question. Until when will we legislate in this Chamber with amendments that are tabled or before we speak or then when we are placed? The country has entered a normality and this process must finally be stopped. He's insulting us all! Ladies and gentlemen, I will only turn to the amendment on 'LARCO', a company that, if it was able to survive for more than fifty years, using profitable and also loss-making uses, was because for a long time it did not dominate an absolute unequivocal view, that is, the financial result that you of the New Democracy have specifically taken into account in your political approach. But what dominated it? The overall, social, economic cost-benefit balance. That is why it makes LARCO an important source of economic life for the six counties in which it operates. Dead areas will become Phthytida, Boeotia and Evia. Especially in Evia, because we have experienced such situations with the mines of the former Scalist, the magnesium mines in '75, 1998, and finally what was left through such processes is the desertification of the area. You are forgetting, ladies and gentlemen, the parameter with the privatisation plan of the company you are tabling, because most of all - and this is the main problem - there is no guarantee of jobs. This issue you say will be discussed with the next investor, which, of course, - and so it seems - you have found, but it has not been committed. You just stayed in the hope that you would prefer today's workers permanent or contractors or even most of them because of their experience in the production of nickel. Do you know how these sound in the workers' ears? As a mock. You keep the company running a year and you use this as a bait for workers, while at the same time the Special Administrator will pursue the average reduction in wage costs by 25%. Therefore, in other words, workers will first pay the cost of the government plan, as they themselves pay the cost of the company's depreciation, which has led, among other things, to the worsening of working conditions. Do not forget, Minister, that in the last year around three people have lost their lives in this company. LARCO, ladies and gentlemen, is a profitable company over time, and this cannot be assessed by the economic elements of a short period of time, such as the last five years, in which international nickel prices have flowed with unprecedented intensity and duration at the lowest 15 years and have created a negative economic picture at this time. However, this picture has already been gradually reversed by the upward trend in nickel prices, which has started to take shape in the last six months. If we do not relate the prices of nickel to the operating cost of a company, then we will find that it is profitable over time, despite the occasional mismanagement that this company has suffered. Of course, perhaps one of you tells me, 'What did you do'? We held the company upright in difficult circumstances due to the Memorandumary Obligations and the budgetary difficulties that existed. After leaving the memorials we began to worry about the next day. We did not, ladies and gentlemen, but our main aspect was the protection of jobs, protection of workers. You have not only abandoned her to her fate, but you also lead her to a sell-out, ignoring the positive perspective that exists, not only with the rise of nickel, but also with its use in electric accumulators. There are, of course, many questions that Mr Stavros has not answered, even using the term 'we dare'. How will you overcome the problem of the ownership of Larymna belonging to the old LARCO, which is controlled by the National Bank? Will the property rights of both the National Bank and a Swiss-based logistic company be easily dismantled? How will you get out of all this legal bucket when, in fact, time - and that is why I ask you this question - is too short to complete all these procedures? The worst of all, however, is that you insist on a project proposed by your 2012-2014 government, a project that had received universal rejection, not only from the workers, local society and political parties of the then opposition, but even from the administration of "LARCO". Furthermore, do not ignore government gentlemen, workers who have a history of their trade union activity, and if we had a massive, massive, participation - perhaps, I would say, one of the best and most dynamics that has appeared before Parliament - is currently being done on the Athens-Lamia highway. Don't ignore their potential.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u146	Please, Minister, what do you have?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u147	I would like to table the first and last legislative amendments and one amendment. Legislative is only two borderlines and the Scaramaga shipyards. Please, I'm tabling them in the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakoras, presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned legislative improvements, which are as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] TAKE PAGE 217-218
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u148	And I will also table a ministerial amendment from the Ministry of Finance, which concerns private donations to the public. We have chosen to help this process because there are many individuals who help with offers, with donations, the Greek State. As a result, persons acting as donors are exempted from VAT of expenditure incurred in connection with their donation of assets such as hospitals, school units, cultural and cultural institutions and so on. I am tabling the relevant Ministerial Amendment to the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister for Finance tables the abovementioned amendment, which reads as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] TAKE PAGE 220
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u149	And one last remark I said and I repeat it. Based on the timetable set in 2020 for LARCO, the first to contribute to LARCO are not employees, they are Greek taxpayers. First, the state budget, i.e. the Greek taxpayers, for the first time in the history of "LARCO" of 35,000 euros, and then, because all the burden cannot be borne by Greek taxpayers, because it seems that the total cost is estimated at 600,000,000 to 65,000 euros in 2020, we said that the employees will also contribute and that there will be a series of initiatives that will be undertaken by the administration of "LARCO", i.e. the liquidator from next week. So, I repeat, on the basis of the timetable, the large amount that will come forward so that PPC can also be paid, in order for LARCO to remain alive, is the Greek taxpayers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u150	The amendments will be distributed. I will give the floor to Mr Vitsa from SYRIZA for seven minutes, and then Mr Kostis Hatzidakis, the Minister for the Environment and Energy, asked for the floor. Here, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Three points I have to make. Labelling number number one. Since yesterday, when this terrible MAGP was voted on the issue of immigration, there are MPs and New Democracy officials who come out and say: “Why are you shouting about the pensions? And SYRIZA made reservations." Clearly: throughout the time SYRIZA was government, nor in the islands, nor in the mainland, has a requisition been made. None! Renting spaces, yes. Concession to the Ministry of National Defence or from the Ministry of National Defence yes. Circuit no. It's none of your business, but they're clean. When you find a order, come here to the House and say: 'So lie'. But, unfortunately, you will come and say: 'The truth'. Labelling number two. We've been through this, Minister, in relation to the ODA. EAB may sometimes have liquidity issues and these liquidity issues are about whether the Ministry of National Defence has paid the instalments, especially the Air Force, because overall the contract says that about 400,000,000 from the Air Force are going to EAB for maintenance, etc. But it's a profitable business and we've just told you things. Do what the troika didn't allow us, etc. From 20% withholding on the invoice, make 6%. Increase wages for workers, especially for ODA engineers. I did it for one step above, remember, even for the managers. I don't deny it. So I think it's right. You can't sit on a table, and you can't take two grand, but the people around you get from thirty. I'm not saying 30, but I'm saying that that's how capitalism works. Isn't that right? Isn't that how it works? EAB is a company that, for the next seven years, not just has a job, but has a job that can't stand it. And I remind you - here was Mrs Bakoyannis calling me: 'I will not let you do it' - that there is a law that says you can make five-year contracts. In the Memorandum, this law became, and in agreement, when we were fighting, and with Mr Tsakalotos and, of course, with the government, did not go to the supreme court. That is now the main issue. But I see you as a person with whom we are opponents, politically, ideologically, etc., but we can exchange arguments. Here, you come and tell us things about the EAW that are not the case, that it is close to shutting down the EAW. How will a profitable business close? You're not trying this thing, I guess. You're trying to open up. You're also reporting evidence that you're accusing yourself of. You came here today, you told us that there are some customs unfinished things, less now, but the evidence I have is from 2006 to 2016. We had a thousand two hundred and thirty-six open declarations, of which four hundred forty-nine concern F16. From 2012 to 2014, hold the four hundred forty-nine, the outstanding declarations are two hundred eighty-six. Do you know who was Deputy Minister of Finance right now? You know, because it was you. That's where you take it as an argument. Is it an argument that you left hundreds of statements in your period? I protect you and you come and say so. I don't want you to say thank you, but anyway. Second matter. We are talking about the Scaramaga shipyard, HSY, and you are beginning to say what we have received, what we have done. Well, you haven't done anything, but here we are. In January 2013 HSY appealed against the Greek State and asked for EUR 100,000,000. The referee court finally makes 200 or 250 million. That's a failure. In 2014, on your own again Minister, in April 2014, he wakes up the Greek state and does this lawsuit to Safha. It's not over and, you know, there's barely a deal that, one at another, whatever we get will be zeroed somewhere. In the end they'll owe us, I say. The first is what concerns the Scaramaga shipyards. Secondly, does the New Democracy and the Old PASOK dare talk about the Scaramaga shipyards? We got 'em closed. The Navy refreshed them. Euclid Tsakalotos, as Minister of Finance, took them back to the Greek public and dares New Democracy to talk about these things? Who was paying the workers so far? Safah? Did someone else pay them? And we're going to the pier's expert 4. All right, now, find some experts to talk about this. We are talking here about a case launched in 1985, it has reached in 1986, in 1987. In 2008, that is, twelve years ago, the debate took place on the port of Skaramaga, on behalf of the Haidari party. Citizens in action, and I say to you: "Take a look at the pier 4 we are talking about - Article 24 of the Constitution, Article 24 of Law 2077/92, Agenda 21, Law 1650/86, Law 1515/86, CSR 269/1990 and say, in the GSP of Heidaris, that the final decisions of the CSCE are final. and so on.’. It cannot then be done the port, and the area must be attributed to the area. And I'm telling you, 'cause you probably don't know it, and that's why you're doing it like this, we're struggling here. The wise and right thing is to take the attachments in front of pier 5 and pier 3, to give it to the shipyard and give us that piece in front of the pier 4. Pier 4 has never been used for a ship repair zone. Pier 4 was used by ASAME, as they say in French, for the issues of trains. So we say in 2008 that here we have a large area of two hundred twenty acres, which can be used as a "day break" or as a recreational area in West Athens. We put it in the program "People in action - Kostas Aspropergeras" in 2010, in the program "People in action - Tropical Spiliopoulos" in 2014 and in the program "Life Force - Renaissance - Rena Dourou", but here we have a difference. They put it in their programs all municipal and regional groups, both in Haidari and in Attica. It closes, and you come here and tell us - I was surprised, because someone said something but you and Mr Zirianopoulos - that he has gone to ETA. I don't understand. Has he owned the EBRD? No, of course not. ETA doesn't have ownership, it's managing, it's making use of. So, is that a argument? If there is a great social role, then it is taken back and it is attributed to society itself. So there is one question I want you to answer. Are you aware that this shipyard amendment gives the investor where he will come? I remind you the shipyards were private until we got them back. It wasn't public. They were "socialised" during PASOK period and I say to you: You do not think there is a question or perhaps there is a question of infidelity from the service, because here there is a legislative initiative, which transfers public property - and leave it to EBRD, for use, etc. - without establishing a procedure for determining the remuneration? Think about this, don't leave it, because you know, if you find an investor, you won't tell this place, but you'll put it all together. To close with this, this area belongs to the people of the region, it has come from strands, it develops the area and helps the region, it does not cause any problem with regard to the Scaramaga shipyards, even - barely. No one wants this area from the Scaramaga shipyards, so what do you have to do? What I did, too. Rita, orally, but also documents I promised the Municipality of Haidario that this region, once the refugee is finished and the hospitality centre, which is one of the best, will go away, so this area will be owned - so I said, find something else you, do the use - of the Municipality of Heidari. And why did I do it then? Then I did it for a very simple reason, not to create a right in favour of the municipality or anyone else to come to say "good, now I am the gentleman, you are the concessionaire and leave the hospitality center."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u152	Mr Vice-President, you are also expected at the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u153	They're patient people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u154	I don't see any patience here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u155	I tell you to withdraw the amendment, to sit down and work together, so that there is no problem with the Ministry of National Defence, and to help the region itself and the inhabitants of Western Attica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u156	Thank you. The Minister has the floor, Mr Stavros. I think one minute is enough, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u157	Not for a minute, Mr President. The last two spokesmen of SYRIZA said both that "we had designed them, but did not have time to do so". Mr. Apostle...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u158	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u159	You mean to throw the structure into the sea?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u160	Wait a minute. You said you promised, but you didn't make it. You promised to transfer the property from the EBRD.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u161	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u162	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u163	When the refugee is finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u164	Yes, sir. You have therefore promised when you were in the government, but you did not have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u165	What didn't I catch up with you? He's gone, has he finished the migration?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u166	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u167	No dialogue, Mr. Vitsa. The Minister must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u168	Excuse me. I understand the Minister, because Mr Apostlelos really said 'we did not have time', but he cannot give me that expression and don't tell me, Mr President, stop. Do you know why?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u169	I said 'please', I did not say'stop'. For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u170	Even in the parliamentary procedure, the Minister does not take the floor whenever he wants. Let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u171	No, it's just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u172	Since when does that apply?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u173	Since when? Forever. It's from the Rules of Procedure. You're talking now. Well, I don't mind, but you're talking after every speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u174	And the speaker does not speak for 15 minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u175	Answer, therefore. In 2016 with your vote, Mr. Vitsa, and not with promises, the asset went through the EBRD. It was probably from 2011 and went to the EBRD, that is, the Supreme Court. With your vote and not with promises in the future, he went to the supreme office. Second, the ownership passed, as the ownership of all the assets in ETAD managed by ETAD S.A. n.4389/2016, voted only by SYRIZA. Thirdly, in 2018 in your mortgage transfer books I told you earlier that this appears to be in the EBRD. So, right now, we're talking about an asset that you voted to stay in EBRD, but you promised to leave EBRD. The conclusions of yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, please speak. Answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u177	Please, Minister, because you are used to answer after every speaker, gather everything and I will give you the floor to speak about everything together. Mr. Vitsa, you have the floor for a minute. You understand my position because you sit here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u178	Minister, I imagine you have a cell phone right now in front of you and you're on the internet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u179	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, where does this procedure come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u181	I gave the floor. You also asked for the floor and you will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u182	Get into Google and see what the EBRD is. The EBRD can't own it. Secondly, by court decision that we won as "Citizens in Action" and by virtue of Article 24 of the Constitution, etc., the region comes to the public in 2011. What have you forgotten to do all these years? Transcription. I mean, he was a public guy, but he wasn't translated. So HSY came out and they said "they are ours". In 2018, we also do the transcription. I guess not, the transfer was made in 2016, so I could get the space. So your problems don't move them here as our problems. That's the main issue. And the last one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u183	No, it doesn't last.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u184	For what you told me, there has been a change, because there is a premeditation, which we have written in 2008, the alleged...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Vitsa, you asked me for the floor for a minute. Tell your parliamentary representative to tell them. Why are you embarrassing me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u186	I want to say a word lately, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u187	Why are you embarrassing me because I respect you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u188	They won't put you to a bad grade. He was Mr. Terzakis, former President and Managing Director of the EBRD - then he was not - Mr. Kimonas Fountoulis and Mr. Fotiniakis - this is a posted premeditator - and the study was costed at 10 million. For 10 million we can make - I'm interested in this, and I hope you're interested in it too, because you're from an area that has sea - a very nice recreational space that is managed by the Municipality of Heidari, being profitable and being fine and preventing you from doing anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u189	Thank you. Now the Minister will want to answer and you will shout because I do not give the Minister the floor. The Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Hatzidakis, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u190	Mr President, it is not enough for ten minutes. I have to talk about a big issue. Is it an amendment to fourteen pages on a major social issue and you're telling me to speak ten minutes? I'm a special minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u191	Here, Minister, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to various speakers who are in doubt with the regulation that we have brought about 'Larco', which is against this regulation, who consider this regulation to be unacceptable. Very well, everyone has an opinion, but I would like to ask something about those who say to Mr Stakoura and to me not to do anything. I would like the ladies and gentlemen to think. What should we do on a number of issues before us in Larco? What should we do, let's say, that Larco closed down the use of '18- as much as it can be based on evidence in this company, because it is in a situation without a prior-precedented situation - with a negative net position of EUR 308 million? Should we be indifferent? Should we not reason? Should I not account for the fact that at this time we are talking - now - LARCO owes third parties, suppliers, contractors, banks, insurance funds, half a billion euros? Should I not account specifically as Minister for the Environment and Energy that the largest part of this debt is in PPC 350 million euros? In other words, Larco alone owes 80% of the debts of the Greek high-voltage industry. All others 20%, alone with LARCO 80%. And this is growing every month, as LARCO every month consumes a current of 5.5m euros and over the last period does not pay one! We should be indifferent, ladies and gentlemen, to this phenomenon. We should also be indifferent to the extrajudicial we received from PPC, because the Board of Directors of PPC is a board of directors of a listed company and has responsibilities under the law. He recently sent us an extrajudicial to LARCO and said that by 17 February the situation could continue, otherwise the current will be cut off. I'm filing the out-of-court for the Minutes. [[At this point Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Yesterday I told you - perhaps the other SYRIZA colleagues to take this into account in their speeches - that the PPC Board of Directors, with a thousand people - agreed to proceed with the electricity supply of LARCO, on the basis of the arrangements that the Government had brought to Parliament. However, the two employee representatives, including - who? - Mr Fotopoulou, who, if I am not mistaken, is now a member of your party or, in any case, joins you, the two representatives voted against this arrangement, the decision of the Board of Directors of PPC. And why did they vote against her? Because they consider that LARCO has been living in harm to PPC and PPC employees for years! Do you decide which position you have as a party and with which workers are you finally: PPC or LARCO? Because PPC's employees with their representatives had this clear position last night on the board of directors. Also, I heard that LARCO is shattered in relation to other companies as to the price that it buys electricity from PPC. Yes, sir. And it was said and re-examined and there were various prosecutors here who were swinging the finger, etc. Yes, sir. I have here information: 'TITAN', a cement industry of EUR 44 euros, 'LARCO' 35 at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u193	Now, with our own intervention. By last year, however, they paid 78.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u194	He buys 44 each and 35 each. With SYRIZA's logic 35 is higher than 44, because I hear the reactions, and I say it for those who don't listen to us. We should also be indifferent - I in particular, because the document of the services of the Ministry of the Environment, the Director-General for the Environment and the inspectors responsible - was sent to me because LARCO does not pay for carbon dioxide. It does not pay what all the energy companies in Greece and Europe pay for carbon dioxide and a fine has been imposed here for me to sign from the services and environmental inspectors of 49.5m euros. I also put this forward for the Minutes, do not think it came from my head: 'Environmental fine EUR 49.5 million'. [[At this point Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I should like to say that LARCO is guilty of serious air pollution in the wider region, as well as of the burden of the Evian Gulf, which is infested roughly and to which thousands of tonnes of rust are put every year. You understand one of the alternatives you have is to call yourself a "green alliance", except for Phthytida and Evia where you will be a "black alliance" because of the infection you reward, but also Ptolemais and Kozani and Florin and Megalopolis because there you are doing some darkness because you want to plunder. Basically you are a populist party and all green and other colors are meaningless. I should be indifferent to the fact that the ongoing economic problems did not have any reflection on the wages of workers over the years and with all the governments, I must say. I wish that people, every worker, get what they get today and a lot more for their own family and for their children. But when an undertaking is in these bad things, how tolerable - and the figures have come out - that we have a payroll of about 47 million a year for a thousand eighty-nine workers, that is to say, having an average cost of over 40,000 thousand euros mixed for every worker in this business. How tolerable is the average Greek and average worker? How tolerant is it? And how tolerable is it that those who have been working for thirty years or more have a gross wage cost of EUR 62,000, but the same wage cost for those who have been working for twenty years or more? Only those who work from one to nineteen years have those who are up to ten years of EUR 31,000 gross cost and up to twenty years of EUR 37,500 gross wage costs. How tolerant is it? If it is, we should know, we should start adopting this strange logic: when an operation sinks, it gives such wages. How tolerable is this operation, regardless of its ownership, not to protect its own workers, because of a terrible situation in which it has been at all levels in recent years, over the last decades? Only in the past few months have we had three fatal accidents. Three human lives have been lost, two inside LARCO and one contractor, because nothing is observed by a public company, supposedly public, according to your logic, also has increased sensitivities towards the workers. And what should I do - tell me at least - about the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union that has condemned Larco for illegal State aid and calls for a return to the public by Larco of EUR 135 million? I didn't answer that to the debts before. Moreover, this EUR 135 million is also available. We have received a letter from the relevant department of the Ministry of Finance, which also points out that the European Commission is once again referring us to the Court of Justice of the European Union - to what happens? - to impose a fine in the country no longer on the Court of Justice of the European Union for failure to implement this judgment. In other words, now you are all here today that I and Mr Stagioras should come along and say: 'Greek taxpayers, for the sake of all this terrible situation in LARCO', come all the taxpayers to pay a daily fine every day, because we are not applying this decision'. Tell the Greek taxpayers that you're telling this. That's what you're saying. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These are the data, ladies and gentlemen. It was said by SYRIZA colleagues that they are "innocent of blood," that they did all the other parties. I'll speak straight. I am sorry to say - and those who did not govern - that even those who did not go to the government said to those who did not go to the government said to those who were in power to make even bigger mistakes, to plunder even more and to waste more money. Anyway, I want to stand with SYRIZA who...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u195	Yeah, but you've been talking for twelve minutes and you haven't told us what you're gonna do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u196	Mr. Chakaloto, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u197	I'll tell you. Don't worry. SYRIZA, then, Mr. Chakaloto, from 2015 to 2018 that did not affect the company, according to the speakers of your resignation, created cumulative damages of 148,000. This was from 2015 until 2018. This is estimated, because immediately I add that on SYRIZA from 2015 to 2019 the company did not issue an approved balance sheet, moving in a framework of impurities. For those who have doubts, I submit the relevant WIDD document. [[At this point Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On SYRIZA, too, we have now come to an election in July, to draw up a draft collective agreement before the elections, so that within this mess and, for purely election reasons, the employees of LARKO can get increases, because that is how Mr Tsipras' government decided. And this was blocked by the TIADE in a document, which I submit in the Minutes, to understand the way SYRIZA means modern governance and respect for taxpayers. [[At this point Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I heard Mr Tsipras the other day saying: 'Let the business proceed as it is, that nothing happens, that we find a solution, somehow magic.' No one's figured it out. Also, on SYRIZA, Mr Tsakalotos sent on 28 March 2019, last year, 10 months ago, a document official to the European Commission, in the context of the application of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. And after explaining his thinking and saying various things - I agree with other things, I disagree with other things, it does not matter - in the end it clearly says on page 9 that there is an interest in various private investors and that Greek democracy is ready to study all these proposals, in the context of a transparent tender procedure. What do we do today? We're doing a transparent tender procedure to find a private investor. When Mr Chakalotos wrote this, it was a responsible national act. When we do it, it's neoliberalism. Pick and take! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There must also be certain limits, not for you, Mr Chakaloto, because I am sure that you and today are saying the same thing, but for your President, who is doing as if he were not a Prime Minister and as if he had not had any Minister of Finance when you were sending this official letter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u198	We're in 15 minutes and you don't develop your positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u199	Look, I know these positionings are kind of hurting. I'll summarise for the...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, please do not engage in dialogue. Mr. Comrade, let him speak. You've interrupted him three times.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u201	I would just like to ask a question for colleagues in the opposition, before I briefly mention what we are proposing, which, after all, is known to you. If this company was not called "LARCO" and it belonged to a private person like the ones mentioned earlier and was a public company, owed the insurance funds, polluted the environment, did not respect any law of the Hellenic Republic, what would you say to me and what would you say to Mr. Stakora? Would you say 'Bravo, Stakoura!', 'Bravo, Hadjidakis!', 'Let this company continue to pay no one, to care for the legislation, to care for its employees, not to respect anything'? Is that what you'd say? Are you, ladies and gentlemen, simply committing to this famous commitment to the public sector, which ultimately blinds you both politically and socially to your voters and leads you to obvious misunderstandings in your positions? Unless one is polluting and you will come to tell me "let it pollute another" and if he does not pay anyone not to pay, because he is a good boy and we love him. Let me see where we're going to this country with that logic. So what do we propose? You know, then, I was Minister in 2009 and we made an attempt to privatise. I wish we could make it complete, because the PASOK then came to its pre-memorandum and canceled it. It was a good period due to nickel prices in 2009. Then the thing got worse because of the crisis. We arrived in 2012-2014 and a decision was taken with the seal of the European Commission's Directorate-General for Competition, which says what we are proposing today: to make a privatisation, in essence, of a tender, of splitting the company into the three sections and the two most essential, the factory and the mines, on the same day, to make a tender and, in all likelihood, to a private investor. That's why there's also a competition on the same day. So today we are actually going to implement this decision, Mr Chakaloto, which you had five years in front of you and the sifting, so that the situation of the company is worsened every year and the position of the taxpayers is even worse. Strangely enough, to a certain extent, I have to say - to be completely honest, because the situation of the company had deteriorated on a large scale over the past five years - the European Commission, the Directorate-General for Competition, came and said to us: 'Yes, proceed on the basis of the 2014 decision'. If we did not proceed on the basis of the 2014 decision, and if we hadn't had that decision in 2014, the alternative in front of us would have been bankrupt, the business would have been closed, because no private investor would have been - and you know that very well within you - to come to buy this business with the burdens and debts it has. Only free burdens can be sold, as provided for in this decision of the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Commission. Otherwise, we'd have to find someone crazy to tie up, come and give him the business, load him up and load him 60,000, and go to good. So what does our proposal say? The proposal simply tells us what you know about them, but I say that I do not think I have anything to hide: the establishment of a special manager in March, the provision of a funding of EUR 35 000 000 to cover the company's operating companies, because otherwise the company does not make it up to the tender procedure. This is our analgesia, the fact that we are giving 35,000 to ensure that this company does not close and is able because it is a constant fire to go to the tender procedure. The third point is that we are also asking workers, on the other hand, to make a contribution. And that is why we say 25% reduction in wages, less for low-wage, more naturally high-wage wages. We are saying this clearly. It is not different in the face of this situation. So how are we going? Are we going with magic tricks to deal with this? We also say that there should be a fast track procedure too quickly to resolve the company's property disputes with the Greek State. In the various complications that exist, too. And we have to deal with it so that the competition can move forward. We will proceed to an accelerated international auction procedure, which I have already described, and I do not need to analyse it. We predict that this procedure will be completed in twelve months, because we will then have to give more money on the part of the taxpayers to keep the company alive. And that, of course, would not be tolerated and strict deadlines would be introduced to the Special Administrator and to all the parties involved and to the arbitration procedure. Of course in the end - we are saying this clearly - if this process fails, there is nothing left but bankruptcy. However, I really believe that, because we are doing this serious effort, which is in line with the European Commission, and there is also this attempt in an environment that seems to be an investment interest, I hope that this effort will succeed, there will be a reliable investor who will also use the vast majority of employees in LARCO because of their nickel skills. That's our regulation. This regulation is the last opportunity for LARCO. It has been a problematic company since the 1980s, for thirty-five years now, and this government has had the courage to put the finger on the type of sunshine and to give a solution to a serious, reliable, European solution that will radically address the problem of this deeply problematic company and raise the whole issue in a new perspective and on new bases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u202	Did you see how misunderstood you were, how much time did you eat me? Parliamentary spokesman from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, asked for the floor. Mr. Paphie, you have the floor for six minutes. Do you want your dentistry too?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u203	Yes, Mr President, I will speak as much as the ministers. And that's a statement. And don't tell me that I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure because they've spoken three times a year. So we have a right too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u204	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u205	What's going on is incredible. Mr Hatzidakis, you have come with an indictment and an indictment of the death of LARCO. Who are you really blaming? Who's been doing all these years at Larco? You even talked about accidents. Who has been ruling the country since 1980 when you say so to this day? Wasn't it you? Wasn't it PASOK? Wasn't SYRIZA? Who are you literally addressing without shame and saying that it is the responsibility of who? The workers that contaminate Evian? Are the workers responsible for the accidents? There were eighty dead murdered workers, hundreds injured, others disabled and others with occupational diseases. Do you come and say such a thing? People hear you and they'll get out of their clothes - know it - with all that. Who are you really blaming? Didn't you rule? Didn't you appoint the administrations and the Golden Boys? You have not implemented this policy consciously - all the governments - of the degradation of LARCO to be delivered to individuals and say: 'Who is going to come to take LARCO with 650,000,000 debts'? Who's gonna pay the debts, Mr. Hatzidakis? Whoever paid Bodossakis the four billion drachmas. Who paid for it? The Greek people. Tens of billions. He broke it, took it, stood up and left, and then your government and the PASOK government then charged 4 billion. The Greek people. You say to us: 'What do we do?' instead of go out and apologize. For all the things you said you were responsible for, all the parties and no one else is, but no one else. Is there a solution? You say it's a one-way street, and Mr. Stakoras said it's the only realistic solution. Of course, there is a solution and the solution is not today. The solution has been proposed since the 1980s and I will say that, to see and know what has been done with the flagship of the Greek economy, as you call it, one of the largest businesses. They're familiar with this. It is the first in all three of Europe, within five worlds. That's what you want to sell beer instead. But it doesn't matter the price. It's a plan, then. What are the conditions for a project to be implemented? To change radically the policy that has been pursued so far and that has reached it in this mess. How will it change? First of all, with funding, financial support to continue its operation. Don't you have any money? How many billions do you give all individuals? Tell us. Do us an account every year that you advertise the infamous development of capitalist and you don't have such a business. You have no reason why you want to sell it, not to keep the Greek people from paying. Because the Greek people from your policy paid too much, not LARCO. I have given you an example of the four billion. Bodossaki. Secondly, a plan to modernise the company, ensure the right to work and other workers' rights. I'll say later. Finally the slave trade with the contractors. Protection measures. What is the solution for LARCO? The solution is to develop. And LARCO - for the Greek people to know - has done an experiment successfully for the production of stainless steel. We have nickel, we have chromium that you've closed all these years, ferro-nickel and chromium that are the basic materials for stainless steel. So design of a stainless steel production plant. This will decapitate LARCO, especially LARCO, from the international prices of nickel set on the stock exchanges and you know what stock exchanges are. It's the temple of speculation of capital. They set prices according to how it suits them. And the "LARCO" is now involved, so that I don't go into details - Mr. Stakoras knows how many years we're there and we're fighting - and he's going to get locked up, because so far, depending on the variation, all management is done. Question: Why did not stainless steel first of all happen from PASOK - there is no one here - when there was interest in five countries on good terms in 1985 - I do not want to say what was best - to create a stainless steel factory, whose depreciation would be done by selling the product? The countries were Canada, Finland, the Soviet Union, Australia and Japan. I'm not sure about Australia. What really happened, this direction that was fighting the labour movement, and which was also a declaration from the then PASOK, and - then there was no coalition - from the coalition after? He didn't move on. Why, ladies and gentlemen, didn't it proceed? Because LARCO is literally swamped by the "THYSSENKRUP", the German, French, who take the nickel and the added value and the final in stainless steel and turn it back to us. They take our own ore and turn us back with the minimum profits. That's why he didn't move on. He vetoed - I do not want to say a name - from both the Germans and the French, because then it was the market and they would lose the nickel for free and the nickel they took at the prices they set themselves on the stock markets. That's the solution. And yet, to know the Greek people, who are selling growth and such, what could be done. And we know what stainless steel means. It means velocity to aeroplane engine and too many materials. Secondly, the development plan. Processing of all by-products. The rust you are protesting, Mr Hatzidakis, - listen to me - throwing it in Evia - and justly complaining about throwing it, I am not talking about the causes - you may exploit it. It can be farmed for free by individuals now some, a sum. Customers get 80% of the product, which contains cobalt. Yes or no? Contains iron. Yes or no? How much is the LARCO that is not exploited and could have been exploited and done the cobalt with electrolysis, which you stopped, why did you go there? Don't you want evidence? Here's the evidence. Let one go out and disprove them either here or in public anywhere else. He had an electrolysis experiment and he started making cobalt. What's a cobalt? It's literally precious metal and it's metal, which is about batteries, it's about electric power, since you're all talking about clean energy. It's really valuable. What did you do about them? On the contrary. Nothing. So we ask: why, really, not all of this from 1985 until today and by no government? For God and what you worship is not the interests of the workers and the country as a whole. It is in the interest of a handful of capitalists who pluck away the wealth of the country. And if you want, let's go back to history, to prove it again. How much did Bodossakis get when he took "LARKO"? He put 14% on the loan, most of it. What did he take instead? He took construction of the factory and took all the mines free of charge. And when he arrived to make modernizations and had to change a few things, he quit and you gave him four billion dollars. Then the Greek people paid for the drachmas. So here's the suggestion. Here's what you're selling. Let the Greek people know. Of course, it seems - and so it is - that there is no way out if this barbarity is not overturned in total. That's what you sell. Really, I ask you why the fund and the foreign investor will come, since it is the way you both said it, and you also deceive the conscience of the Greek people? What is it? Is that an idiot? Won't he win? billions will win. Villages that, if these publications by Dimitris Koutsoubas, the Secretary-General of our party, are true, a global monopoly will be created from various funds that determine much worse and the prices of nickel and others. That's the plan. By objectively speaking or not, you are a political staff of big capital. And you, Mr. Chakaloto, said the same thing, you said it a little softer. Regardless of whether the management could have been better or worse. What does Mr. Tsipras say? Transparency and ensuring that the individual develops the positions of the workers. We're privatization too. I mean, one of the prisoners. If you say no, please. Ports, airports, nothing left. What does the government's propaganda say and what did Mr Hatzidakis say in the indictment? It owes, it is not sustainable, it is loss-making, it pays the Greek people and the workers have privileges too. And these vulgar ones who wrote several paid bunkers, about 75 thousand a month, and all that is leaking on the site and on various - I say, paid tubers - are valid. He owes $350,000 to PPC. In conclusion, PPC was and is a key shareholder in LARCO. What PPC did as politics, administrations appointed you and PASOK. Did he pay 20% over the current than the other energetic private companies, yes or no? You are bringing us an element that does not even apply to 'TITANA'. Let's put them down, see how much other industries pay? How much did "PESINE pay", how much did other industries, which "PESINE" burn as much as Thessaloniki as the whole? And how much did Larco pay? Let's see, that's all. Seventeen years, therefore, LARCO paid 20% more electricity to PPC and above took 11% pimp in profits. And everything was going fine. Let's go down. In 2006 you were Minister or someone else, I don't remember well, decided PPC's administration to increase the invoice to 45, 50 and 60 euros. It's so much he pays today and it's twice as much as the others. So, beyond 20%, the price that LARCO pays is actually doubled, and if these were not - make the account - then PPC should return rather than ask for "LARCO". Secondly, a State guarantee of EUR 136 000 000 is called upon by the European Union. European Union! You believe her, too. What a humiliation that is. Why is she humiliating? Listen. Why is he asking us? Because the state guarantor entered for LARCO's loans, which took it and paid it back already. And what does the Competition Committee say now? Whatever you sell, I'll give you the 136,000. This is the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u206	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, I have told you all along. Two ministers have spoken for half an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u208	It doesn't matter how much the ministers spoke. If we're gonna raise the minutes to eighteen for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u209	It's so serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u210	I get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u211	If you apply the Rules of Procedure, you will apply it to everyone. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u212	Another Minister, another Parliamentary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u213	I don't understand. Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u214	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u215	I didn't understand well. Why each other and the other?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u216	The Rules of Procedure state the Minister. And for the Parliamentary spokesman he says nine minutes, along with the denology, since you want us to go with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u217	Even if the debts are deleted, the Greek people enter and pay. Have you ever calculated whether these were done, how much would the Greek people have won, that is, the state to be more precise? I told you four billion. Bodossaki. And what did you give? You gave 100,000 to the beginning to move. Hundreds of billions from government policy. Half a billion was sold by New Democracy's appointed administration, and it lost half a billion, almost half a billion, before it. Yes or no? Who's gonna pay for this? Is it the workers' fault? Tell us. A lot of wage costs, and so have others. 80% and over it takes between 700 and 1,200 euros clean. 80% and over-working. What working conditions? Have you been to Larco, in the factory, and it's summer? To take the Ministerial Council and meet out, in the rotating round there, to see what conditions the employees of "Larco" work and not to shake the finger to themselves and say that they have large wages with seven centimeters and head to the carniole all the time they get killed. So go. Pick up the Ministerial Council and your MPs and go to the spinals, to the furnaces next door that passes with two and a half thousand degrees of temperature of metal, and there to decide and tell them that they get a lot of money. Seven hundred and a thousand, eighty killed so far. How much do they really cost? How does your inhuman and barbaric system value them? How does he appreciate them? Hundreds of disease, hundreds crippled. How much do you cost them, really? Tell us and tell the world. Shame on you. Such cynicism and such anesthesia. It's like the system you're supporting. Think, one who takes 700 and 800 euros and 1000 euros will reduce him by 25%. To these workers. It's disgraceful. I'll tell you something. LARCO is a minefield for governments. You should know that. It is not any industry or the LARCO movement is anyone. You know, all together, all over the area, all over Central is across the street and it's on the way. You won't get through this easily, know it, and we'll warn you. As for the rest, the shipyards, etc., our Secretary-General spoke. I close because we are in the situation of good legislature and regularity, where an act of legislation comes and the'relevant's, the privatisation of three giants, let us say it, and you put us in a fast track process, let us put ourselves in. All right, let each one take his own conclusions. We will be, as always, next to the workers. And you know, for all of you I'm talking about, they won't be long enough to send you, because they all disagree with all this and with all the politics, of all the governments, and they're not communists. Most of us, if you like, in unions and elsewhere, neither do we. Neither do we. You will find yourself across the street and rightly the workers are turning aside any politics and joining together. You should know that this blood that has been spilled into "LARCO" and elsewhere will choke you once.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much. We shall proceed with the speakers. Mr. Dimitris Kouvelas has the floor from New Democracy and beautiful Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u219	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, Minister, today we are called upon to ratify the Act of Legislative Content from 24 December 2019, which introduce urgent arrangements. You know, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Communist Party, we are not just among the workers. We are close to all citizens, especially those who are economically weaker, weaker. Urgent arrangements are introduced to increase the amount of the social dividend for 2019 by EUR 40,000, with final beneficiaries of more than one million of our fellow citizens, and this is also listed in three hundred thousand households, according to the official figures of the Independent Public Income Authority. In addition, there are arrangements for extending the extrajudicial mechanism for red loans until 30 April 2020, as well as other important arrangements. I have, however, distinguished the most important ones. Initially, I feel obliged to remind all of us, and especially the citizens who are following us that the Tsipras Government did not leave a single euro for the distribution of social dividends at the end of 2019 for the simple reason that we distributed what was available, putting in the state funds at the beginning of June last year as a so-called thirteenth pension from May 2019. Why did he do it in May? Let's remember this a little. It was a pre-election period. We had self-government elections, but also European elections at the same time. And so, the SYRIZA government considered that with these practices of other times, sharing money uncontrollablely, without criteria, it would limit the extent of its election defeat. Finally, neither in the May elections have you escaped from the crash, in the self-government and in the European elections, ladies and gentlemen, nor on 7 July, when the future of our country and our children was played, you fooled Greek citizens. I would remind you that the amount provided for in the tax bill, which finally became a law of the Mitsotakis Government, was EUR 175,000 in total, and today we are raising it by EUR 40 000, 000, additional to EUR 215,000, but with a clean and fair social figure. ‘Social mark’ means that this dividend is provided to the really vulnerable and weak economic groups and not to uncontrolled and opaque criteria. What does it mean to us'socially vulnerable groups'? These are the result of the legislative act. Firstly, they are households with at least four or more children. Secondly, they are households where there is a long -term unemployed and a dependent child. In the case of a single parent family, it is sufficient for the only parent to be long-term unemployed without any income criterion. Thirdly, they are households where both parents are short -term unemployed and, of course, have at least one dependent child. Similarly, in the single - parent family, it is sufficient for the only parent to be short -term unemployed. Therefore, more or less we support the single - parental family in particular. Fourthly, they are households with at least one member with special needs, regardless of income. In other words, all economic patients and vulnerable social groups of our fellow citizens are covered. In addition to these additional social dividend arrangements, Article 2 provides for the extension of the existing framework for the extrajudicial system of debt regulation. I would remind you that by the law passed by the SYRIZA Government, the operation of this mechanism expired at the end of 2019, on 31 December. That is why our Government provides for this extension until 30 April 2020, so that more citizens can regulate their debts. We urge them to do that. Other arrangements will then be followed, as is known. Did you, however, set the final date at the end of December 2019, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA - whether you wanted to, or could you - and you come here today for this four-month extension to criticize us for that? Where's your social sensitivity at last? But what can anyone say? It seems that "the gar much of sorrow gives birth to depression", to paraphrase the well-known saying and every day you tell us - it is obvious - that you were ready to do it both, but you simply did not have time. You know, I think that this stereotype of moto only as a joke can now be taken by us and by Greek citizens. As the Minister announced, the new and single framework for debt regulation and bankruptcy of legal and natural persons will enter into force on 1 May, which will include all cases relating to overdue households, the protection of first residence, and those envisaged for the extrajudicial compromise. The Mitsotakis Government is directly faced with the problems that have been left to grow and to which you have avoided a solution. But these measures are now being taken, in particular to strengthen social cohesion and to protect the real weak. Furthermore, other important provisions relating to the extension for two more years - instead of 17 January 2020, it is extended for two more years - the operation of the mortgages. Their abolition is suspended. There have been very important steps. Obviously, we were not ready to go through the new era yet. I should like to take this opportunity to refer to the issue of the Thessaloniki Land Office, the largest building office in operation in Greece. It is a very important issue and it concerns many rights, many properties. That is why I asked the Secretary of State for Spatial Planning in this regard. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would just like a minute, Mr President, because it is an important issue. For years now, it has been noted by the whole notary and legal world of the parties, individuals and public bodies, that a huge delay has been taking place in the system of notarial acts, property securities, burdens, judicial decisions and that the certificates concerned are handed over to the interested parties. This delay has been going beyond seven months for years. It is currently about 12 000 unsolved cases and, of course, the relevant certificates are pending. You understand that there is even a question for the security of trade. Of course, all this is a brake on the development that we so much want. It is clear that with a few officials, without full legal support, without satisfactory legal support, I would say that the largest property office in Greece cannot function properly. I would like the synergies of all the co-legislators here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u220	We also thank you for your respect for the regulations. That's how we should be. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to inform you that the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Economic, Development and Investment, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Immigration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime Affairs, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, and the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs have tabled a draft law on 12-2-20: ‘State the Association Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and Central America on the one hand.’ It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis has the floor from 'Mera25'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u221	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are still discussing a bill with too many last-minute surprises. But let's start from the beginning. For the social dividend we sit down and talk about small increases and about who gets the social dividend and who is wrong and does not get it. We're talking about a social dividend that is generally minimal. The government's excuse for why the social dividend is so low is that there is no more money. But, Minister, there were EUR 59,000,000 to be given as a reduction in HISBIA to people who have real estate of over 500,000 euros, while some EUR 600,000 was given to profitable, large businesses in the context of tax for a reduction in their tax. So about a billion budget space was found to be given to the having. And then, when we have the millions of people in need, who live with disability pensions, for example, and allowances - those who live, namely, with 250 and 350 euros a month - we are discussing which one of them will get the 700 euro gift. And I would remind you that at the same time, the few, the needy have taken one billion. That is why the social divide is unable to cope with it. And that's why we make people fight who gets 50 euros, who gets 30 euros extra on his income this month. In this context, however, you have brought us two urgent provisions for you. They are both backward amendments. I know that in this House, unfortunately, there is the habit of being able to be an amendment that is late and, yet, to be considered in breach of the Rules of Procedure. In other words, at some point let us abolish the Rules of Procedure of the House. If we are not to observe him, let us not mention these things in the Rules of Procedure of the House. It is a disgrace to any Member - and I imagine that all the new Members feel this - that we should vote, with the seal upstairs, on the delayed amendments. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] So the late amendments also contain the so-called amendment on 'Larco'. The Minister for the Environment is gone. He is disturbed by pollution in LARCO. I, too, feel very disturbed. I have, of course, been disturbed by the deaths of people all these years. I am with the Ministry to find a solution to the issue of lubricating LARCO. There have been proposals for the energy upgrade, for the 'drug' of 'LARCO' and the productive processes since 2006 with the IGM, the Metsovio Polytechnics, etc. But I'm annoyed by the pollution in Volos too. I am disturbed by the smell of the burned plastic that exists in Volos and employs all the inhabitants, who are only day on the road and are protesting. The Minister tells us that the incineration of waste does not cause pollution. I therefore call upon him, since the incineration of waste does not cause pollution, not to put it back on the combustion plants which he prepares in a Race and firing plants which he prepares in a Race and Schisto, but to bring them to the center of Athens, to bring them next to his home. But if he wants to place them in the Bridge, let the Prime Minister's office also be transferred there, let the House also be transferred there. If it does not cause a deterioration in the quality of life, the burning of waste, if no pollution and danger are caused by furans and dioxins, then bring them by the house of the people in the government, but not by the mountain once more, not by the west, where people have experienced the deterioration of their health, death and deterioration of their dignity. We have reached the point from the waste and the management that has been going on since 1960 - now let us consolidate it with the policies of the government and close it over a hundred years - to be ashamed to say where they live and where they live. This is a disgrace to all of us. I want to go to Scaramaga's, too. You have brought a late amendment again on Monday evening, to which you are actually granting the whole seafront and the pier 4 to be privatised as part of the privatisation of the shipyards. Pier 4, for those who do not know, was until the 1960s the most beautiful beach of Attica. He was smuggled at some point, and he stayed still. It was not used by the shipyards, as other colleagues have presented. What does it mean? It is the only exit of the western Athens to the sea and it is an organic part of the archaeological walk that we have begun and discussed - and with Ms. Mendoni we had a discussion in the House - of this virgin part that we have left from the ancient Holy Road, which unites the Garden Diomedes and the Memorial of Pythioniki, moves to the tracks of the Holy Road, to the Monastery of Dafni and to the Holy of Aphrodite, reaching what is today the Problem 4. Moving on to this act, Minister, you are ending any such prospect of such unification that is crucial to the west. It's critical to the west for a very simple reason. It is the action that will bring this degraded unfortunately, in the minds of the Athenians, a place - a beautiful place - in the heart of Athens, with an archaeological walk that can be the second destination after the Acropolis. This is now degrading. I will present to you in the Minutes and in the proposal submitted by the mayor for the exception of this area, as well as the minutes of the ASA, i.e. all the municipalities in the region asking for this area to be granted to the municipality and the unanimous resolution of the Municipality of Heidari. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You must withdraw this amendment. Right now, it's not just a space. It is an area that hosts, in a successful way, about other spaces, two thousand at least three hundred people. It's an open refugee hosting area. There has never been any problem, because local society accepts it and is in a very good relationship with this area, as opposed to other areas you know. What are you going to do with this place? Are you going to order another plot to transfer it? With another emblematic investment - this one in the Greek - resented the "Greek S.A." at the Metropolitan Social Physician of Greek extermination - I will submit it for the Practicals - and so a metropolitan area that offers free services to the citizens is in danger of losing its space for another investment. I don't think it'll ever happen, because the businessman doesn't have the money. But, in any case, it is an investment that is against society and citizens. At the moment, with this choice you will also throw away the refugee reception area, an area - I repeat - that has not caused any social problems. I invite you to withdraw it. The whole West Athens and the entire region are calling for you. And I think you'll do it by the end of the day. I hope at least.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u222	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Tsakalotos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Stavros asked us at the beginning of his speech to speak with evidence. He'd talk evidence and call everybody and talk evidence. Thomas Gradgrind came to my mind. You will remember that Thomas Gradgrind is in Charles Dickens' novel “Hard times”. And before you take it as a compliment, so that I don't put you in the wrong direction, it's Mr. Gradgrind who said, "Give me the data, only the data is important in life" and has the character of the bad odor of beneficialism that E.P. said. Thompson, another British but Marxist, i.e. elements, no framework, no values, without knowing where we want to go and what vision we have. At the same time, Mr Stagiras told us that he has, in an open spirit, tabled amendments to four huge problems which have been escalating for many years: 'ELVO', 'EAP' and 'LARCO'. Since Larco is such a matter, why didn't you bring it to a bill? If you think this is such an important issue - and you have had the truthfulness, and you and Mr Hatzidakis, who now came, say that it is not just ours - why do you put it in such a context? Why didn't you bring it into a bill to have bodies, to be able to talk about it, to have a real conversation? Is that why of the twenty-six Members who want to speak, only six are of the New Democracy? Only 23% of the speakers are New Democracy. Could they also not be convinced that there is a framework to discuss these issues? You're doing more tricks. And if it's a trick, I give you a chance to get it back. We have the amendment in which it has - so we cannot differentiate our vote in the articles - and things that seem very reasonable to us: to help staff the General Accounting Office of the State, not to confiscate accounts when people have a problem with storms and natural disasters, as well as an ADP issue that is very serious and which we need to discuss. And that's what you should bring in as a bill. So you are either forcing us to vote against it all or to vote for it all. That's not serious. It is not important for him to come as an amendment. It seems to me that the JRC's rapporteur has said the same thing. So I would ask you at least to differentiate Articles 1, 2, 3 of this amendment from Article 8. And I'd say that also Article 8 should come as a different bill. Now we are actually going to the point of 'LARCO'. I heard that you and Mr. Hatzidakis said that Alexis Tsipras mentioned in his speech, "We want to save jobs". I don't know why that's bad. And as an answer, you took off the letter I signed, that we're also looking for a private investor. First of all, we will make it clear that we do not have a different view of investment, namely that investment must be accompanied by job cuts. Where does this come from? And after you've read the letter, you know our plan. Having agreed with PPC, we have exhausted all the possibilities of resolving the state aid problem that you have created, we have improved the economic situation of the country which was an extra burden on the company, we have called on the European Commission to dialogue to reach a mutually acceptable solution to the problems that you have created. So why, Mr Hatzidakis, the twelve out of the nineteen minutes of your speech was about what SYRIZA did not do? Our problem is not that we do not trust this solution, which we may not trust. Our problem is that we don't have any confidence because you don't know the general context. And that's why I started with him. Grind. What is the development framework, the development plan through which this government can flourish? What is the social framework of support in general that can help both workers and the region? And I'm going to do here a parentheses about pier 4 and the very good speech Mr. Arsenis and Mr. Vitsats made. Why does it matter to go to West Attica? It's very important. And if you want to understand why there is populism right beyond you - Orban I mean, Brexit, things like that I mean - is that in many areas that voted for the Labour Party or in France before the Communist Party, there is not only a collapse of investment - jobs, factories - but also of the social fabric. Because in these old areas there were public enterprises, but also the businessmen involved in the region, donated, built towns, cultural centres, parks. This has been lost in modern capitalism. And so, if the state is not able to take care of this, that is to say, that companies must have and care not only for shareholders - the Shareholders we say in English - but also the stackholders, that is to say, all those affected by the action of a company, such as workers, the local society where a business operates. You'll have the continuation of the fall of the social fabric. That's why pier 4 is important. It is important because privatization is now becoming good or bad with funds - I mean badly, but perhaps inevitably, with the commitments we made and the privatisations made - and from businessmen who have nothing to do with society where there is an activity. The social fabric is getting worse and that is why there is this concern and uncertainty in the world that creates populist behaviour. Finally, I will return to this subject for your general account. I now come to the AIA and to the proposal for a rated classification of jobs. It was something that the institutions constantly put on us and we did not accept it. A great deal of questions are being raised about the way the amendment comes and about the content. Why is he coming so fast without any consultation? You tabled it yesterday at 11 a.m. and we now vote on it at 12 a.m. Why doesn't this thing need to be consulted and it has to be voted on within one day? Why so opaque, while it seems to outline a very specific system that the House is asked to ratify? Why don't you notify us of this system? Why such a significant derogation from the Civil Service Code? New concepts are introduced for close public sector officials, without any documentation. Why are they necessary and what are the expected benefits? You know, we have two fears. Firstly, we have a theoretical difference of policy. Do you know why in the beginning of the 20th century the factories themselves, the businessmen cut the payout with the track? Because he found out that the workers who paid the piece didn't cooperate. I was on a line, and he was my good colleague next door, and if he was ruining your machine, I wasn't coming to help you, because the pieces on which I was going to be paid were at the cost. So the public sector, which is the main area of public interest and cooperation to find solutions, which is not the profit from the most important, must be very cautious with such solutions, how much more so in Greece where civil servants do not trust politicians, how when there is wages in a job, the choices will not be made with the old clientele and you will choose someone in a job, because he is your man and the other will go to a job score below, because you do not care. But that's not the sovereign. The sovereign is why does the ADP have to be so different from the rest of the public? Unless the answer is that it should not be so different from the rest of the public, and this amendment is the reason to change the circumstances and the way it works throughout the public. You must have the courage to tell us whether this is the case or whether you consider the issue of AIA to be quite special, tell us why. To close, Mr President, to respect time, I would like to say about your dominant account. I will ask you a question: what did you learn from the Irish elections this weekend? Varadkar and Fine Gael, the centre-right party, 6% growth in 2019 - not the 4% that you promised, where 3% are pale - unemployment at 5.2% and public debt approaching 50%. Why didn't it go well? Why didn't he win the election? Why did he lose the election? Why did Sinn Fein get up from 14% to 24%? May I give you my interpretation and give me yours? Because he didn't answer the social issue. At Exit Poll on election day over two thirds they said that all the good things they said - unemployment, development, public debt - do not feel them. And you can be sure that with the social things you do and the quality of the development you are doing - and that is why I said the pier 4, which is why I said 'LARCO' - you will have the same results. The centre-right account that "I will bring growth, I will bring investments and thus incorporate a world of the people and the middle classes", doesn't appear everywhere. You have no record that can unite the Greek people, neither your part nor you can expand to the middle layers. So - I conclude with this phrase, Mr President - our main objection to many of the things that are in this bill is, in essence, what you say in this particular context, but much more in the general context. We see neither a social nor a development framework so that a part of the Greek people can at least have expectations of a better future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u224	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u225	Wait a minute, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they attend the meeting after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the Parliament and were toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the New Artakis High School of Evia (first section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I also have the honour to make an announcement to this House dated 12 February 2019: The Standing Committee on Production and Trade submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: "Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Montenegro Scientific and Technological Cooperation". The Minister of Finance has asked the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u226	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Chakalotos knows very well that I appreciate him and we have a very sincere and fertile debate in this Chamber. Indeed, we have differences. The first difference is in values and principles. We have stable values and principles. Others are political and ideological implosions. Secondly, we do want to be judged in deeds and not in words and blame the previous government for wrong deeds or for inappropriateness. That is why I spoke specifically today. However, I have not heard anything specific, I have not heard any specific initiative for difficult assets which you have not created. We were very honest with Mr. Hatzidakis. But there have been problems that you have raised and you have certainly not solved. Thirdly, we do have a different approach to development. We believe that with the social liberalism programmes - economic efficiency and social justice - this positive macroeconomic situation - I have just been informed that the country is now borrowing with less than 1% ten years - to be reflected in the real economy, in the citizens' wallet. Has this been done so far? No, it's not. To date, the citizen sees the first samples of writing this government, and we try as quickly as possible, as possible, to make this visible to the citizen. And it will be done mainly by reducing taxes, mainly by making use of the country's wealth for the benefit of jobs - you see the ten regional ports that are within the bill - but also by dealing with all the mines that the Greek economy had for decades and you haven't met. Three targeted remarks. You are constantly returning to the theme of pier 4. What did you do for her until July 2019? You say what the government will do. What did you do? After you said that he had to go back to the municipality - he was never in the municipality - why did I not see a document signed for you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u227	We made the transfer. Answer Mr. Vitsa. Mr. Vitch told you about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u228	I answer you directly. First of all, you confirm that as the Minister of Finance you have done nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u229	Mr. Vitch told you that it had become...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u230	So, you confirm...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u231	Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u232	With Law No.4389/2016, the law of the Supreme Court that you voted, the ownership and the prestige of all property is transferred. So you transferred the ownership of pier 4 to the EBRD. And, secondly, from 1960 to 2018, pier 4, until the return of the concession goes, it is precisely for this work, that is, for shipyards. We are now going to LARCO. As far as LARCO is concerned, what do we blame? By 2018, what were you saying? In public character. Mr Tsipras in Lamia on 27 July 2017. Also in 2018 another excerpt. I have Mr. Statakis here, I have you. Protection of the public. That concept has left your vocabulary now. So, basically, you have been cultivating expectations for five years in the words, precisely because you had no record. And it turns out that today. We have also caused you and Mr Hatzidakis to hear what this proposal is, which you tabled by 7 July for LARCO, and I do not hear any response. On the contrary. I have - and I will table the Minutes - your answer for three years, since 2015. Thirteen questions I asked you and you kept answering me, "Priority planning for LARCO", from 2015 until 2018. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Otherwise, you're accusing us of having no record. For three years you said 'we will build a plan'. And not just that. The European Commission arrived to send a letter to the Prime Minister of the country saying, "We have sent you a letter to the Minister of Finance since November 15, 2017...". This letter to the Prime Minister is on January 24, 2019. Be careful, they have made a letter from 2017 to the Minister of Finance. And he writes in that other letters by Commissioner Westager and the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakaloto, have been followed. We arrive in 2019 and the letter concludes, “The Greek Government has not answered at all”. For two years! And then you tell me about planning yours? That is why you are avoiding "entry the field". The platform is being criticised. On the field, the politician is judged. And yes, we have the courage to make difficult decisions to save shops, save jobs and save serious assets, which have all these problems of the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u233	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Chakalotos has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u235	But once you have to answer the substance. You're talking about pier 4. Firstly, you do not understand - or do you understand - why it is in the budget - that the HICP, other than the superstition. When an asset goes to the overseer, he can use it without privatising it. So it's up to you how you use the pier 4. But answer: Are we right that it can help the social fabric and the development of this region? That's the question. It's not the technique. Mr. Arsenis and Mr. Vitsats have told you because this is so important.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u236	The Minister will answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u237	Yeah. This is the essential point, however, if we are right that this asset is important to the West Attica. And then we talk about it and how we do it. Also, as far as LARCO is concerned, would you leave us a situation which was easy to solve? I'm just going to say one problem, because you've said the other thing. You've solved the property regime so we can create a plan. Did you solve that and was it clean when we got it? For God's sake! We are making a plan, we are making a plan, and what we have said - I said it myself, Alex Tsipras said - is that with this design, our job was to save jobs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u238	Are you telling us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u239	The problem with your amendment, which we are debating now, is that nobody outside the New Democracy, if I understood correctly, does not think that jobs will be saved.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u240	You didn't tell us the plan. Will you tell us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u241	You read it halfway through.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u242	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Bukokoros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, political déjà vu. The same thing you told us about the port of Piraeus in 2008, to save jobs, that there would be "mobilisation" of wages and today, ten to twelve years later, jobs have been multiplied, and workers in relation to the market in relation to the outside market have been better paid. You were then talking about salaries of sixteen, eighteen and twenty euros. In the bars, it was indeed all the political forces that are reacting today to LARCO and the port of Piraeus since that time and the results, unfortunately, do not confirm you. They shall confirm the policy followed by the New Democracy. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the legalisation of an act of legislation which is already in place and which makes sense for the amendments that have come and concern important issues in gaining the interest of all Members and focusing the debate there. I would, however, like to focus on two - three issues which have to do with what we are discussing today, but also with the current political topicality, regarding the positions of Officer Opposition. We are talking about a party that had refused to vote on the Hydrocarbons Agreement in the Ionian Sea. We are talking about a party, which is the one of Officer Response, which is even trying to rename it to 'Green Left', which is returning to positions in favour of lignite, of course, ignoring the brutal fines imposed on PPC for pollutants, EUR 250-300 million per year, ignoring that production from lignite plants in the last few years by twenty thousand giants, ten thousand of which have been reduced in the days of governance by SYRIZA, wanting to forget that it has attempted to privatise two lignite plants at a price of EUR 1 and has not achieved this either. It is this party today that returns to lignite worship and, otherwise, says it is the left of ecology and the green left. Let us now come to LARCO. I really noticed the positions of all parties today. There is a different view of the JRC, which says 'the means of production in the hands of the people'. For these systems, of course, there is a similar historical experience in Europe and in the world, and everyone has his opinion, but the vast majority of his people today, well or badly - do not believe in these systems. From there on, did you hear any other view from SYRIZA, from KINAAL, about the use of LARCO? The only argument I have heard from the officer's side is that, for its days, there has been a new regulatory framework for the cost of energy in LARCO and they have considered this a saving policy of the company. But in the regulatory framework of SYRIZA, "LARCO" was paying PPC, or even today still writes 5 million euros? And in the end, what do you propose? Where's this story coming from? Are we constantly charging the Greek people with millions of debts? As a result, its policy and its result are the ones that are judged and on all these major issues since this morning, I hear the Civic Opposition say "we had a plan, we did not have a chance, the lenders did not leave us" and a thousand two excuses. However, the policy, ladies and gentlemen, is judged only by the result. I heard SYRIZA's top executive saying here, with the Minister of Finance "why do you say that EAB would close?" I'm sorry, but if New Democracy was acting like SYRIZA, would EAB close today? And what do I mean? If the defensive agreement signed by SYRIZA to finally come to Parliament and not vote for it, did New Democracy not vote for it, on the pretext that it was an agreement of SYRIZA, would it close or not, ladies and gentlemen? What is the life-power of ODA today? Is it not the defensive agreement and the extension of the participation of ODA in the implementation of this agreement, with an object close to EUR 300 million, an agreement that I repeat that, although you have agreed it, did you refuse to sign it in Parliament, as other 'Janes'? But as opposition, but as government. "And with the policeman and the policeman." You want to be right anyway. But it is not because I tell you for the third time that politics is judged on the result. And your results in these specific sectors, in hydrocarbons, in lignite and in LARCO and in EAB were zero. Justifications don't fit. From there on, we could say a lot, that the new policy is coming to correct the timeless mistakes of the past and LARCO, if you like. Because, of course, you can blame a specific New Democracy governance for mistakes in "LARCO" and mistakes in "LARCO", but these are just the ones that the new policy comes to cure. At the same time, however, when the mistakes at "LARCO" were made, we had the successful privatization of the port of Piraeus, we had the successful privatization of "Olympian", we had the natural gas networks and so many other things that went wonderfully, focusing on the economy and development. You are talking about the ten regional ports and I am obliged to mention the historic port of my country, Volos, which remains inactive, unexploited, unexploited, despite the enormous potential. You say that the ports already assigned by the Civic Opposition to the superstition are allocated. So how do they get re-issued? We're talking about the best possible way of making use of it. When we talk about the port of Volos, ladies and gentlemen, do you know what port we're talking about? We are talking about a port that has been in a hundred and twenty years' time, one of the few in the country, talking about a port that is in a good geographical location, and we are talking about a port that was pre-war on the top of the country and is now completely untapped, with a turnover of not more than EUR 5 million per year. What has the public character of this port rendered to the local and national economy, to the Greek people by extension, to be committed to this model of exploitation, today? And very well is the government doing and putting the ten regional ports, completing - if you like - an effort that has been launched by cowardly ideology with the concessions of the previous government and coming here to invite investors. No one will get the port of Piraeus to take it either to the United States or to any other country where investors come from. No one got the port of Piraeus to take it to China, Beijing, Shanghai. The port of Piraeus is here, it has brought wealth to the place, it has given jobs, and with this political option the first port of Europe will soon become. Where is this policy assumed to be wrong? I say - and I am forced to say for the fourth time in my position - that every policy is judged on the result. The results show that that's where we have to go. We're talking about exploitation. No sale we're not talking about. No one's gonna put wheels on either the port or the railroad. Infrastructure needs to be exploited, bring new, well paid, jobs, bring wealth to local communities and to the national economy. That is what today's amendments incorporate in the bill. The approach to state structures, historically - I have said - has been tested. No one is entitled to believe him or not to believe him. We have received, we have stock of historical experience in our country as well as systems that have been fully implemented. There's a stock of experience. Everyone is free to choose and decide whether it was the right way to exploit infrastructure that particular or the one we propose. So, in my view, these policies of the government are coming to improve the indicators of the economy and then, of course, to pass this benefit, this improvement, the everyday life and the economy of the citizen. Because we have arrived today, not by chance, I think, in the ten-year bond, at a rate of less than 1%, a history low, ladies and gentlemen. Greece has never borrowed at such rates. And in the five-year bond with a negative interest rate of 0.38%. Are you saying that all this legislative work that has been done over the six months and the direction in which we are driving the economy and growth has not played any role in improving these indicators? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Let us not be mistaken, without improving indicators, neither the real economy nor the daily life of the citizen can be improved. It's never happened. We know that the Greek people, after ten years of crisis, are in a hurry to see immediate results. All these seven months have taken place, the relevant legislation has been passed, and we are very sure and sure, so we continue at the same pace, that tangible results will enter the daily lives of the citizen in the next few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u244	Thank you too, Mr Buquoir, for keeping time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, forty-one students and students and three educational sessions from the High School of Neos Artakis Evia (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Hetas, Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u246	Wait a minute, Mr Heta, to give the floor for a minute to the Minister of Education, Mrs Kerameos, to develop the amendment for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u247	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm sorry, Mr. Colleague, I'll be very brief. I would just like to refer to Amendment No 160 and to Amendment No 39. This proposed legislation restores an injustice with regard to the equal treatment of pupils of the summer high school. This provision is therefore called upon to address the problem of the different treatment of pupils, who, although born in the same calendar year and in the same summer high school, if they were born before September, give a different status and, if they were born after September, they also give another status. So it restores this injustice, which was unfortunately established by the previous government, and now, after the vote on this regulation, there will be equal treatment of pupils and will all be able to issue introductory examinations on the basis of the same system. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u248	Mr President, you should also take a turn with the Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u249	It is not now, I think, a problem, for a minute, for an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u250	Parliamentary representatives and Ministers have been speaking for three hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u251	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u252	Mr. Heta, wait a minute. The Minister of State, Mr Gerapetti, has the floor to support an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u253	We also have to change the Members, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u254	Now listen, when the ministers bring an amendment, it is customary - if you like - for the House to take the lead, because they also have the obligations to their Ministries. The world isn't lost. If, however, there are comments and clarifications, of course, always if they exist, they sit here and listen to them or come after them. For Christ's sake! Don't make a thing right now. I'm sorry, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u255	I have no problem, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u256	Let Mr. Hetas speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u257	But that doesn't change in time. Come on, Minister, you have the floor. Mr. Hetas is condescending.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u258	I want to apologize to this House. It is only for one minute, for support, so that you know before you place yourself or for any other reason. I apologize, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u259	Alas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u260	As you know, one of the most comprehensive reforms of the Greek administrative system, which is the transfer of all individual administrative acts as the responsibility of the Heads of Directorate-General, is to carry 80% of the material of administrative acts out of the civil administration to the service, resulting in a substantial reduction in the bureaucracy of 80%, a reduction of any pillars and anticorruption posts, because now the administration is in fact having the greatest say in the exercise of the executive function and, of course, in ensuring the continuity of the state by confidence in public service. In this respect and in support of it, we are currently putting an amendment, which is essentially interpretative of the original Law 4622/2019, which actually contains three individual regulations: The first individual regulation is to do with the fact that individual administrative acts, including non-executive acts, are now allowed to be issued to the heads of directors of the Directorate-General, so that all possible administrative acts can be removed from the budget rather than from the civil administration. The second amendment relates to a transitional, in fact, situation in which an opinion has already been given on the adoption of a specific act and which is to be adopted. There is a transitional period, so that there is no doubt about it, which might lead to the adoption of the final administrative act being invalidated. And, of course, precisely to strengthen and solidify the new regime on the basis of which the service administration has the whole package of competence, we are giving the sample clear that even if an earlier formal law has provided that an individual act is issued by a Minister, even in this case, the newer provision giving authority to the heads of directors is prevailing. All the provisions are precisely in the direction of strengthening the official public service, i.e. the Heads of Directorate-General, with regard to the old competence of the ministers. I apologise again to this House. Thank you, Mr President. I'm sorry, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u261	To fill in something, because the same conversation took place yesterday. For Members who may not know all of the Rules of Procedure, to say this: when parliamentary representatives ask for the floor, they take him out of order from the Members who speak. It is therefore not right to point out that all the parliamentary representatives are now speaking. They talk whenever they ask for the floor, regardless of parties. Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u262	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Gerapetritis, since you're here, and you're the last person you've spoken to, I thought you're going to have an amendment on football, so I saw you loaded up, because you've recently taken it on shoulder. I did not understand that Kyriakos Mitsotakis has already been through the first remodeling of the government without announcing it, because I am looking for Mr Aygeakis and you have been in charge of the State Secretary of Sports lately, rather than taking the chestnuts out of the fire or snake, because I see that Mr. Aeggeakis, of course, has been saying so since then, is deficient about this position. You weren't listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u263	You're lowering the...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u264	You are now running like a fireman to wipe out the fires that Mr. Augarians put in. I know, I'm embarrassing you. But you should also know, because you are a university and legal person, that in the area where you are going to get into trouble, where I have twenty-seven years of nursery, there is a little difficult paths, Mr. Gerapetritis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u265	I didn't take care of that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u266	I know you're only talking about football, nothing else lately. Now, bring in an amendment. You are the shadow State Secretary for Sports, I'm so sorry. You're nothing else. Well, I'm on my way. For the articles of the bill, I can hear you, of course, afterwards. And I have a lot to say today, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, twelve has become six. What do we got? Discounts? It was kind of magically six o'clock.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u267	Mr. Heta, six minutes is why your Chief spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u268	Yes, six and three, nine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u269	But, in any case, you have three more minutes, you can move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u270	Mr President, since I am given the opportunity to talk about it all, because we are really good kids and very kind in here and you see it, I saw Mr. Vésiropoulos here... Mr. Pafilis from twelve spoke seventeen, nineteen, twenty-one minutes? In fact, he took time in a stubborn way, my friend Thanasis. But all right, if we talk and ten and eleven didn't do anything, but six makes me nervous, make it nine right now. What is the point, Mr Staikora, that we have all heard you here very carefully? You told the truth yourself, because it's the truth that stays in the world. What's the truth? That the auctions will continue. What's the message coming out of today's meeting here? That from May 1, the world will lose its homes. That's the essence, no matter what you say. As good as you have intent and mood, that's the essence and it doesn't change. You tell the world to take advantage of what? A hundred and thirty thousand are, he says, these people and we end up in two thousand, even though they will end up being fewer. So this is a failure and you have to admit it. Change it, therefore, as long as it is time. They're not going on the platform over a thousand or a thousand five hundred. I might say a lot of things right now. You know, the most to be there. So what were we doing here? A hole in the water. We're just talking about talking. We don't say anything more. As regards what Mr Hatzidakis said, whom I have listened very carefully, because I am more than ten hours in that chair, I really understood today, ladies and gentlemen of the government, since you are many ministers here today - Mr Gerapetritis, to transfer it as the number 2 of the government and to your Prime Minister - I understood that the New Democracy is a new party, which was created a few years ago. I thought the New Democracy was a fifty-year-old party. Now I know what it is. He described us in a glazed way, as Mr. Hadjidakis always does, the tragic situation in which LARCO is located, as was PPC and the "Olympian", that it is a mess black, that they will be cut off the current, that they are not paid, that millions of euros go in and he goes to save it now, as Superman Hadjidakis took over all the other companies. I have not heard from the mouth of Mr Hatzidakis, who has been the Minister in the past, an apology. Look the Greek people in the eyes and say sorry. I say this, why did he wonder 'what can I say to the Greek people today?' What can you say, Mr. Hatzidakis? You must apologise, because as a government party over the years we have put PPC in - to the percentage that we are given - we have put LARCO, the "Olympian", because we have ruled for so many years and have not been able to stand up to these businesses. You know what, Mr. Hatzidakis? What do we have to do now? Should we not correct our mistake, as Mr Bukokouros, your parliamentary representative, said? Yes, sir. What's that supposed to mean? Am I correcting my mistake? The millions of euros that this country has entered, who have lost this money, who will pay for it? You don't even apologize to the Greek people. Nothing, an apology, like you're from virginity, like you're out today. The new parties called New Democracy or Change Movement or even a little SYRIZA have nothing to do with the country's governance. Today they appeared and saw as magical what is happening. Now we're going to something else. You should know that politics wants substance. As much as you're trying with communications tricks to advertise the huge work you've produced so far, reality is different. And she's different for you too, very difficult. You took a nice little spot yesterday, which I saw with Mr Mitsotakis saying 'We said it, we did it'. So come here today to say what you have not said and what you have not done, but what you have said and have not done either. Because fairy tales and communications tricks are good, but you can't do politics through Facebook and Instagram. Politics is in society and streets every day. You've been abrogated, it says, the asylum, with the district policing, etc. You said in two weeks you'd clean the Exarches. It's been seven months. You said you paid the 2,000 euro allowance for every child born. You know very well that the problem is not solved like that. Plus, I don't know how many other tribes. Let's go down. Anti-smoking law: You are proud of the anti-smoking law. You have destroyed businessmen, because in coffee bars and restaurants their turnover is 65% down, instead of going to another solution, the solution of the logic of smokers and non-smokers, to choose in a democratic state where I am going. For the Greeks abroad, which you are proud of, I would like to say that we were one of the first to say "yes" and we supported this effort so that Greeks could vote abroad. Now let's go to what you didn't tell the famous little house you're advertising for the first seven months. You didn't tell us what you were doing about the Prespecies Agreement. You didn't tell us what you were doing. Our finger is shaken by the Minister of Labour in Skopje. You didn't tell us you were saying other things you did. Nor did you tell us what you have done on the huge issue that exists and no word has been heard in this Chamber about the enormous problem that is about to drown the country called 'illegal immigration'. Requisition! Listen, ladies and gentlemen, in 2020, in here, in the temple of democracy, we are talking about the order of buildings and fields. You can't do that! Requisition! I will read to you something because it really has substance: 'The government let things get to the extremes. As he fell, he's going to sleep. He didn't have an honest dialogue. He left things with unfavourable consequences for the whole country." Wednesday 20 July 2010. These statements are the current Secretary-General of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. When SYRIZA spoke about a requisition, that was what the current Secretary-General said at the time. SYRIZA said the same thing about: "Julian coup written in black letters in Greek". He said the same thing. That's how you guys are! You look so much like it. You are the same thing exactly and you confirm it every day with what you do. So after going to order the fields, farms and homes of people, foreign property, winds, and you will reap storms. That's why you didn't tell us at the advertising house, Mr. Mitsotakis, what you were doing about illegal immigration. It is now clear that you are dangerous, dangerously incapable of dealing with this huge issue of illegal immigration. And what we haven't heard! National coordinators have heard, ministries' abolitions, ministries' revolutions, we have heard, protection networks for mice and various fish. And put some airplane, some curtain to stop and the F-16 to pass. Such measures are taken with what you do. What a diffusion to mainland Greece we heard, what a quota of 1%. 'No, we won't be diffusing, after all'. Why don't you diffusion? Because the cost is huge. Are you going to destroy three or four islands, which you have already destroyed, because there are how many people to vote? Twenty, thirty, forty thousand civilians? If you go to the mainland, black snake that ate you. That's what you're doing. All of a sudden, we became China. Within 15 days the new hot spot was built in Samos. Awesome! That's not the Chinese either. So, when there is will and money, we Greeks do miracles. Within ten days we built the new hot spot in Samos. Awesome! You don't understand what's going on. Let me tell you something and I shall end, Mr President, with that really: our work is not here. We're on the streets. And where didn't we go? On all the islands, in Moria, in Pieria, in Kilkis, in Evros, in Samos, tomorrow we go to Crete. You've lost the game. The world is suffering. We've lost Greek islands. If we make closed detention centers, which you say, which will be open and intrude, you know that it is not solved, because the influx will continue. So, what are we getting out of making closed detention centers? What are we getting away with? They're coming in. The Turk sends. Erdogan's sending! Keep going. Continue and give these benefits of shame to the Greeks, the 400 euros to these people. You're shutting down the illegal NGOs. Don't close the Doctors of the World, you guys. We're not talking about them. The "Doctors of the World" are legal and have offered work. It has five more NGOs, then, good ones that help society. It has four hundred more, however, which are mafia and the money of Europe and of Greece and the Greek citizen is being rampant and brought back illegal immigrants. These NGOs are closed down. Cut the benefits. Take all these Afghans, who are not refugees. And say something to the Greek people. Say that we have no right to return - even if they do not have the right to remain for asylum in our country - the Afghans, the Pakistani and all of them and you know it very well. We only have Syrians, who are 7%, 8%, 10%, if there are some who are not entitled to asylum. You don't tell the world that. At the moment 80% are Afghans.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u271	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u272	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm telling you, they're mind-making, because they're coming to what we're saying late seven months. They've lost seven months. We'll lose our islands. Wake up, don't lose our islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u273	The Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs Sakorafa, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u274	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is frustratingly insisting on the method of legislating by an act of legislation, proving a lack of planning and a service of purposes. Heterogeneous and pointless arrangements are accumulated in an act of legislation, without consultation, without studies, without targeted. And that is not enough, but in the fragmentary and reflective legislation of the legislative act, eight amendments are being added again, which, ladies and gentlemen, according to the position we are in, we always protest. For example, we have an amendment to the Register that, in modern Greek reality, has become like the bridge of Arta. So the main issue of today's legislative act is the distribution of the social dividend. The social dividend to Memorandum Greece is the return to society of an infinite part of the bloody surpluses. Once again, it is the social base that bears the cost. The circle of beneficiaries is again limited. The record that the memos have now been cancelled, with the sole introduction of such provisions. This is also confirmed by the amendment on 'Larco', an amendment on the sale of 'Larco'. The social cost of dismissal and uncertainty for the thousands of workers, which will dismantle the social cohesion of Central Greece, goes far beyond skin. LARCO is one of the largest industries in the world. LARCO is the company that has been making use of specific deposits since 1989 - nickel, cobalt - the value of which will be launched in the next few years, due to their necessary use in the steel industry and electromobility. Due to the global pressure for a green transition, the European Union's leadership has promoted electricity and the modernisation of energy-intensive industries with the Green Fund announced since March 2020. LARCO can be modernised environmentally, but also energy, by exploiting this funding that is entitled to European funds. The know-how for this transition exists. It is the study presented in 2006 by the IGME and the School of Mineralists of the National Technical University at LARCO, a large pilot installation that proves to be directly applicable, with significant benefits, making LARCO sustainable for many years. The pilot project worked perfectly. The method has worked very successfully in Australia. This industry with huge property - mines, ports, factory - and with these unique and guaranteed prospects it is sold by a Minister who defames it, promoting social automation, charging only the debts to the Greek people. At the same time, it is questionable whether any buyer who makes use of it, guaranteeing, in any case, huge profits or making it a simple stock exchange product, leaving behind the carcases. In any case, only the investor wins. The government refuses to think and act as a government. You will allow me to say - and I apologise, ladies and gentlemen - as a dealer of private interests. The depreciation of the Greek state industries and large economic units to the benefit of privatisation and expropriation was the sole objective of the Greek governments. SYRIZA did it with the railways and airports. He knows this policy and continues to apply it by Mr Hatzidakis, because he also implemented it in the 'Olympic'. We call on the government, even at the very latest, to respect the wealth of the Greek people and to exploit the productive potential of the country, rather than giving them private interests. This policy is the so-called solution proposed for red loans. The government, loyal to those who insist on the interests of the predators' funds, established the famous plan "HRAKLIS". The "success" of the project is based solely on mass auctions and evictions. With the guarantee of the Greek State, the predators will buy the red loans at the lowest price and resale them in a minimum of time with huge profits, of course transferring them abroad. They're the only winners. On the contrary, the borrower loses his property and - look out - he remains in debt and his debt is criminalised. The banks are therefore selling off at degrading prices. They create a new capital adequacy hole and they will need new capitalisation. The Government notes that this plan has the confidence and approval of European institutions, as well as of the largest investment houses, while all four systemic banks will be involved in its implementation, of course, since 12 billion of the banks that went bankrupt, such as Intrum of Piraeus, Alpha Cepal and Eurobank's FCP, etc. At the same time, the well-known procurers of deadlocked and destructive monumental solutions are already preparing for society. I would mention, in order not to spoil our hearts, the auctions will take place, the protection of first homes against the economy in Greece - I am not saying them - and only yesterday the Minister of Finance dared to say that the banks paid for the crisis in Greece. Who? The banks, ladies and gentlemen! Minister, the Greek people have paid blood for recapitulation three times so far. This in itself is an insult to the Greek society. We shouldn't say that. Even the defective protection of the Katseli law has been taken care of by the so-called 'left government' - you will allow me - of SYRIZA, with the help of Mr Stathakis, to proceed with his substantial dismantling with the so-called 'new first home protection framework'. From 1 May there will be nothing. However, in order not to be considered excessive, the Governor of the Bank of Greece himself, Mr Stournaras, prepares us for the next steps, noting that the HERAKLIS project is not enough and tells us that, when the first results from its implementation, other scenarios will be examined, according to European rules. It is such that the tension and the self-proof of the social unrest that will be caused, which even members of the government party are struggling to propose alternatives. In the face of this situation we, as Mera25, considered that we had the political obligation to take the initiative of dialogue with all parties, all institutional and productive actors and social movements, because we believe that there is a possibility of creating an alternative rational and directly applicable, without auctions, without evictions, with the protection of borrowers and the reorganisation of banks. [[At this point the closing bell of the speaking time of the H' Vice-President of the Parliament is ringing.]] Mr President, I would be beg. This is obviously not the time to develop this proposal. I will only say that it is based on the establishment of a public restructuring and private debt management company, where all red loans are transferred by the banks. We put this proposal in good faith as a basis for discussion, because with it we can also achieve a reorganisation of the banking system, the liquidation of red loans and the creation of a stable mechanism for dealing with them, the termination of the evictions and the auctioning of small and medium-sized property and the immediate reintegration of red borrowers into economic activity, the objective being to identify malpractice strategies, the termination of the cycle that undermines banks and social cohesion. So we are anxiously awaiting everyone's response. It is an obligation for the whole political system to protect its citizens from speculators and solve a problem of national importance. So we can work together, ladies and gentlemen, this alternative. We have a shared obligation to do this now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u275	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u276	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u277	Mrs. Sacorafa, you know I honor you and I appreciate you, but you made a reference to my face that isn't accurate. I have made a public statement since yesterday that you and your party have been paraphrasing or cutting off part of the statement. What have I said, and have I testified it in both the Minutes and yesterday? That the banks themselves bear responsibility and they have paid the marble of the crisis. So I recognize and then had an accurate analysis of the errors that they have made in the pricing of consumer loans, in the pricing of credit cards and so on. What did I mean by "pay the marble"? They lost 80 billion euros in deposits. The 40 of these lost with Minister Varoufakis in the first half of 2015. So then - and because I have all the studies here, I will submit them in the Minutes - all for ten years they claim - what you know very well and Mr Varoufakis has said - that the fiscal crisis created in Greece over the last four decades has created the banking crisis with the errors of the banks. But when he bears enormous responsibility for the disaster that took place in the first half of 2015 with Mr Varoufakis, with the third recapitalisation, which was lost definitively for Greek taxpayers, it goes a great deal!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u278	He's not here. You're not allowed to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u279	I am therefore presenting in the Minutes the report by the European Commission, signed by all the governments and by Mr Varoufakis, on how the financial crisis led to the banking crisis, the speech by the current Governor of the Bank of Greece on the same subject, the speech by Mrs Noui, who was the head of the ECB Supervisory Board when this issue took place. I am also presenting in the Minutes the report of the previous administration of the Bank of Greece. So heed everyone's words.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u280	Mr President, may I have the floor for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u281	Wait a minute, Mrs. Sacorafa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u282	Thank you. First of all, Minister, I think that all of this is good to say when Mr Varoufakis is present, because he has answered you too many times and I think he has disproved you. One is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u283	Didn't the deposits fall?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u284	The second is that I am very pleased to admit that the banks have mistreated citizens' money.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u285	I've said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u286	The question is what you are doing to preserve the property of these people who have lost her through the bad management of the banks. That's the story, nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u287	Mr President, will you give me the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u288	Soon respond, because dialogue is not allowed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u289	Over and above faces, in the first half of 2015 40 billion euros were lost. It's not about faces, it's real. That is why the then government came and made a recapitalisation of the banking system, so that Greek taxpayers finally lose their capital. There's no need for anyone to be in the Chamber here. All he has to do is see the evidence. Therefore, this reduction in deposits and the destruction of the first half of the year has a name: Mr Tsipras and Mr Varoufakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u290	Mr Kotsos from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the ministers of the New Democracy and the Government of New Democracy have the happiness of being faced with enormous problems, with very great problems. And I say this because the scale of the problems gives prestige to politicians and government that can resolve them. Because courage is needed, boldness is needed and, in paraphrasing Andreas Calvos and his verse, 'freedom will be virtue and bold', the solution of the major problems will be bold and bold. In particular, when these are, as is the issue of 'LARCO', which has troubled too many governments and has so far not been resolved and the current government is called upon to put an end to this whole process. And you know, the people tell us that smart people learn from the mistakes of others, while fools from theirs. And I think that the mistake that SYRIZA made, he can't sell lignite units when he wanted to give them to individuals, we should avoid it. We must avoid this through an extremely careful procedure, but with a plan and a concrete plan, so that this operation can really continue through a completely different procedure. You know, politics is the art of practicable and not the ideal and is judged by the result. And a result can only be produced by policymakers. The opposition has the luxury, has the ability to perform theories, to develop any narrative it wants, without being judged in practice. I've lived it as a mayor too many times. But when the opposition is called upon to come to the government, it can prove in this matter how it can give solutions to any issues that trouble it. I am one of those who believe it was a pity that the Left had the opportunity to run the country, on the one hand because it showed its potential, on the other hand, but on the other hand it proved that the left account was empty in content, because when you are in opposition seats you may have magical solutions and magic wand for all the problems, but when you are called to face them in the field, it proves how realistic, how realistic, how decisive and, at the same time, how determined you are within the field. And it turned out that SYRIZA was out of scope, so all these issues had reached the Government of New Democracy today. You see that the wounded giant, "LARCO", owes the unspoken giant, PPC. PPC was also a bomb in the hands of the government when it took over, as it was in danger of sinking all over Greece, all Greek women and all Greeks, and, thanks to the brave and timely interventions of the government, it pulled the nose out of the water, without that meaning that its problem has been resolved. You remember the famous "NOME", those infamous auctions that sold electricity at prices below the cost to individuals and put hundreds of millions of debts to PPC. Do we have luxury as a government, as a society, to continue at these rates? Of course not! I therefore appreciate, Mr President-in-Office, that you are right to act and move in this direction as well as to 'LARCO'. The New Democracy Parliamentary Group is on your side and supports you, supports you. I am sure the Greek people also stand by you because they understand the scale of the problem, but they understand that at this stage this is a one-way process. In fact, because I have heard Mr Varoufakis claim that the New Democracy Government is investing politically in the investment climate, in the development perspective and does not give the basis for social action, I think that this particular debate...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u292	You mean Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u293	Yeah, you're right. I mean Mr. Chakaloto. You see, one has succeeded with one another, so there's a mix-up. Mr. Chakalotos said so, really. However, today's debate shows exactly the opposite, namely that the New Democracy Government of course has a social preoccupation, and that is why the Prime Minister of the New Democracy Government has made an earlier commitment to the rapid restoration of the middle-class, but also of the vulnerable, vulnerable and vulnerable social groups, by means of the legislation which has already existed. This is because all of us are aware of the situation in our country, of the difficult times that our vulnerable populations are experiencing. In this awareness, we come to give an answer with works and not words. What are these works? Does the reduction of HISBIA not move in this direction? Does the forward payment of heating oil not move in this direction? The birth allowance isn't a measure that supports the family? In fact - take care - we are living at a time when we are all aware that the birth rate is no longer a slow-blind bomb on the foundations of Greek society. It is a bomb ready to dig into the hands of the Greek society, creating disastrousness and disadvantage over all the other population groups that are growing rapidly and who are now pushing us with a particular settlement. The SYRIZA Government, of course, had made sure in May 2019 that it did not leave any euros for the social dividend, expressing the notorious ‘thirteenth pension’. But be careful. It has proved once again that these cheap election tricks have no impact on society. They do not produce social and political results, which has also been demonstrated in the July elections, which the citizens have given a large majority to the Government of New Democracy. If nothing else, Minister, we have been instructed to proceed with efficiency, determination and speed in order to resolve all the issues that afflict Greek society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Nikolaos Syrizas is now called to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have now begun to discuss a legislative act on social dividends and, following yesterday's formal amendments and the last positions on who was to blame and what was to blame for the memoranda and policy that has been carried out over the last few years, to discuss all of the matter and to generalise a debate on how each of us is going on and what the policy we have been pursuing. But I will try to focus on the contents, saying first of all that the social dividend, the 215 million that New Democracy gave in December, was a social cut for mocking. Because it addressed much less vulnerable layers and our fellow citizens. It addressed about 1/4 of the households and natural persons from what we addressed at the end of 2018, with the 780 million, as well as the social dividends we addressed in December 2016 and December 2017. I mean that it is completely false what the New Democracy claims, that there was no financial space to give more money as a social dividend. There was a financial space. You discovered him immediately after the elections, with the 200 million extra for the reduction of HISPIA, mainly in high incomes, over 500,000 real estate. The financial space you yourself claim to have found a billion, but out of one billion alone only lost 215 million for the social dividend. The rest was addressed to HISPIA, in the form I told you before. More than 200 we voted on the weak and medium-sized incomes to reduce the tax on large enterprises from 28% to 24%. They addressed the reduction of the dividend, etc. So they were approached to class where you wanted to help high incomes rather than low and vulnerable strata. You also said that we had exhausted the budget area with the so-called 'three-third pension', which you called'so-called'. It was, however, a pension that was applied scrupulously the first time and was given after many years, after you had abolished it in 2012-2013 and the pensioners would see it every Easter. This pension is now being abolished in full with the new insurance, which we will be discussing in the next few weeks. But it was not an election allowance. It was a permanent measure, which you absolve. Let me say a word about protecting the first residence. Obviously after the end of April there will be no protection. You said, Mr Stakoura, in a committee a week or two ago that you would build a new framework. We expect to see if there will be such a new framework. But already a representative of the Greek banks told us that about three thousand auctions are pending for the first quarter. In relation to the amendments, I would like to say: you have brought us to a number of amendments, which are in the same text positive and negative provisions, obliging parties and Members to vote, whether positive or negative, and that is a specific purpose. I mean the following. For example, the positive reduction of VAT to 6% in diagnostic preparations and reagents used in the radiation treatments of cancer patients - which is certainly a positive measure - brings it at the same time as tomorrow morning when you cancel the Stavros Niarchos Foundation contract with the Greek State, free of charge radiopharmaceuticals, so-called 'circuits', to public hospitals, which can help research into other radiopharmaceuticals, which are obviously aimed at cancer patients. And the thing is that with this cancellation you exactly create cartels, finally raising the price of radiopharmaceuticals. So one day you say you give one hand and the next day you multiple get back what you give. I would like to say a word about the ports. Articles 4, 5, 6 and 7 in your amendment to the country's ten major ports, obviously all three subsequent amendments - namely the extension of the concession to sixty years, the compensatory benefits in favour of the port agencies, which you give them a maximum of 5%, and the conclusion of multiple simultaneous or successive concessions - what are they doing? They are gifts to the upcoming investors, they proclaim the HIDE as the absolute sovereign negotiator of these contracts, effectively bypassing the port agencies and creating non-viable conditions for port agencies with the compensation you set up a maximum of 5%. In essence, you are going to overturn the law that we voted on, under Law 4597 of 2019, on the regime of concessions, which is a regime applicable throughout European port policy, to 90% of Europe's ports, which guarantee public or self-government ownership in ports. That's what you want. It is not enough with the concessions, you want full privatization, and that is why you want to go through this amendment. One more word, Mr President, and I shall end. Changes in the ADP are not innocent at all. The substantial conversion of the ADP into a feud of the commander in question creates a service out of control and outside public rules, circumvents the budget code and converts the ADP into an independent body through which there are serious aspects of fiscal and economic policy. That is what you want to do, you are setting up an ADP for an agency outside public control, which the lenders have been asking for for for years and which we have not allowed. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. We are obviously voting against these provisions. And I think that the adverse effects on workers very quickly and for the public interest will appear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u296	Mrs Gara Anastasia has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u297	Thank you very much, Mr President. Although we had today to discuss the content of an act of legislative content, you have brought a number of amendments to very important issues that affect local and national society as a whole, such as the crime committed in LARCO and the workers in this company. You will allow me to concentrate above all on the amendment concerning the future of the ten regional ports in the country, one of which is the port of Alexandroupolis, which I represent. Mr President, you are coming today with a late amendment to change important points of Law 4597/2019, which SYRIZA had voted on. This law, adopting the best European practices in port governance, provided for the model of concessions for the development, promotion and development of regional ports and local communities, where regional ports are based. So you change the conditions of port governance without public consultation, without any debate on the committees of Parliament, without a report and, above all, without any consultation with the local communities, the municipalities and the institutional bodies. Once again, Mr Ministers, you prove that you are indifferent, do not respect the view and needs of local communities. In addition, we see it in the management of the refugee question recently: 'We decide, order and bring, either through late-term amendments or in the decisions, our decisions'. However, what does this particular amendment provide for, ladies and gentlemen, which - I repeat - comes in a spurious and hidden place? First of all, the concession time is increasing by ten years. In other words, you give additional time to potential concessionaires, effectively closing their eyes, considering that this is how you make the offer more attractive for concessions to the ports. Unless you have already come to an agreement and if you have asked for it, you are serving it through this amendment. However, this procedure is out of legal proceedings, as you have to bring the conventions back into force and ratify them in the House. So make sure you do it right away. Because this provision will otherwise be swallowed and it will not have any effect. It is surprising, however, why you are doing everything so roughly, rushed, fast, sloppy and unlegal. Unfortunately, you do not show the same study for the protection of first homes and, above all, for popular families. Secondly, as far as the amendment to Article 5 is concerned, you are opening the way, not only for the mere withdrawal of activities and services, as is currently the case with the law I have mentioned, but also for the conclusion of more and at the same time of concessions to a port. It will be possible, in other words, ladies and gentlemen, for a private person to take all the activities of a port, and with the legislation in force, there will be a withdrawal of an activity or a combination of activities in different ports, in order to engage in specialised and high-level investors. You are bringing from the door to the window, as you wish to say, the full privatization of regional ports. In addition, with this change, port agencies are at risk of being converted into non-integrated functional deafcases and of being ultimately deprived of all their revenues from the individual activities to be granted to a private investor. This argument, of course, is also supported by the regulation on the compensation fee to be paid by the agencies as a percentage of the revenues and so on at 5%, regardless of the sustainability of the agency. This option is conscious of you, of course, in order to hit the agencies and, above all, to drive hundreds of workers and workers to unemployment. In fact, at another point in the same amendment - you could bring it as a bill - you are abolishing the possibility for agencies to hire a financial consultant so that each body can prove its viability. You only grant this activity to the GOI. In fact, you have taken care to post a relevant notice for the recruitment of a financial advisor from TEAD, while the existing law, without having changed it, does not allow it. And again, why hast and curiosity? Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment on regional ports, some of them with an extremely important geopolitical and geostrategic position, such as the port of Alexandroupolis, comes to undermine and challenge the very viability of port agencies and the development of local societies in the region. The most worrying thing, however, is that the government shows no mood, no interest in attracting healthy and stable investors. You are, unfortunately, only interested in making it easier by concise procedures to sell the upcoming sale at all reasonable times - in introductory terms - 'investors'. Besides, you've shown it before. Unfortunately, this practice will also have painful consequences for local communities, local economies, local businesses operating around regional ports and, of course, for the workers themselves. They also risk social, sporting, cultural, non-profit activities taking place in the ports. I would like to remind you briefly that the number4597 voted on SYRIZA accepted by investors in the country and worldwide as it introduced the model that is valid at 85% of the world's port industry. You are overthrowing this with the amendments you are bringing. In this law, therefore, we have ensured the public nature of the regional ports in synergy with private investors for the development of ports and of the wider regions. In particular, for the port of Alexandroupolis, there was provision for, among other things, the sustainability study that you are ignoring or left in drawers at best, the development of the VET pier along with the eastern unexploited terrestrial zone, which would allow the integration of the networks and the connection of the port of our town on roads and the Ennatia Road. All this has come to an agreement, cooperation and partnership with our local players and not with sudden and delaying amendments, as you have done today, but with the aim of developing the port and through maritime tourism, sport, coastal fishing and the interconnection of the port with the issues of culture and entertainment. They are activities that are not of interest to any investor, but are of interest to our local communities. Today, unfortunately, we see all the above being at best repetitive because of the neoliberal ideas of New Democracy and your obsession with selling critical public infrastructure as a pretext for a possible transaction you have made.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u298	Finish it, please. You're in eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u299	I'll be done. In particular, for the port of Alexandroupolis, the country is led to lose control of a very important infrastructure at the entrance gate of Greece and Europe. A port of special value for our national interests in a critical geostrategic and geopolitical position. Unfortunately, you, with the amendments you are bringing in late and deliberately, give the key to a private person. And that puts each of us and every one of us before his responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u300	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", fourteen students and students and two educational escorts from the Municipal School of Rescue - Forest - Phoenix Imathia. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Harula Kafantaris has the floor from SYRIZA. Then we will give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Besiropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen of the government, your appetite for privatisation is huge and as long as the time is longer. This was said by your government's Minister of Economy and Development in December in New York in the second forum Capital League. This really is reflected today and in the amendments you have tabled. All you care about is privatization. But privatizations don't go on their own. Privatization means redundancies. This is indeed seen in particular in the amendment on 'LARCO'. It is an amendment to divest in fact this large public undertaking. It is a unique company producing ferro-nickel in the European Union and one of the world's largest companies in its industry. It's a world-wide business and recognition. It is one of the few heavy industries that have remained in our country and manages a very important party of mineral wealth, and its contribution to exports is very important. It is an operation that the SYRIZA Government has maintained in operation despite the problems of decades that have taken place by your own governments, the New Democracy and the PASOK. At the moment, we need a plan that also ensures jobs. Because, as you know, this company, in addition to a thousand two hundred employees, has something to do with local society and local entrepreneurship, and it can also involve about 12 thousand VLU, as calculated. Investments and privatisations are at the heart of your policy. The question, however, is this! Development so far we haven't seen. Specific investments seven months that you rule have not been seen. Even the Greek's emblematic investment can be seen as being constantly delayed. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, what has come today with the amendments is the continuation of a specific policy of the Government of New Democracy. In the development law that parliament passed in November 2019, some first steps were taken. There have been steps to relax, elasticize, I would say, industrial relations, violation of environmental conditions and, a little - very much, I think we all remember this draft law. These steps, however, continue steadily. So we have both amendments. On the one hand, I have spoken with regard to LARCO, and on the other I shall refer particularly to the Scaramaga shipyards. It is an amendment which - let me say, Minister - is very roughly written. It is an amendment to which there are no topographically, there are ambiguities. I would like to mention one expression: '... the necessary marine space'. What is the need for seaside space in front of the coast, so to speak, from the shipyards? Anyone can think of it as they think. In other words, I am saying all this - '... enterprises that operate legally'. What are these enterprises that operate legally and who judges legality? Of course, a very important one, apart from the fact that there is no topography, is that there is no specific record of the buildings for this area. And now we're going to settle property, which is probably illegal. It comes to this amendment and says that it will be the buyer who will take steps to integrate into the 2017 Act 'appropriate', not the owner, EBRD, HSY, whoever is. So the buildings are not described. But in this particular provision, Mr Minister, there is something unconstitutional. The ownership of the settled arbitrary buildings and not the concession of their use is transferred, as is the case with the granted territorial areas. This is a very serious issue. Not to mention the forests mentioned in the amendment. It says that the forest character of the areas is not lost, as they have been described. We are talking about the Scaramaga shipyards, about this area. How, however, will the conditions be checked by whom? Do we have a violation of Article 24 of the Constitution here? How's that gonna happen? There are many difficulties in this amendment, in view of your great desire to privatise, to sell. West Athens, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is denied access to the sea front. It is a request for decades of the inhabitants, the institutions, the local government of western Athens. It is a request for which the municipal authorities have also made unanimous decisions. Right now, I'm going to testify two. One is from the Municipality of Haidari - a delegation with the mayor we have seen today - and the other is the decision of the ASA, the Development Association of Western Athens, which is in agreement with the decision of the Municipality of Heidari. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Charaka (Harou) Kafantaris, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What is this decision and what do residents and institutions claim in western Athens? They ask for the exception of the pier 4 - about two hundred twenty acres is the area they request - and their return to the self-government of the wider region. They also request an exemption from the total divestment of the yards. We are talking about an area that has never been used by the shipyards, is acceding, etc. The refugee hosting centre is now established, which, once it has ceased its operation - is important the work that is produced there and is a model centre - must be allocated to the municipalities and the wider region of western Athens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just give me one more minute, please. But here I have to say that there was also an amendment to the development law, which, however, had been taken back for specific reasons, because there was no price and so on. Repeat the arrangement, which provides for a concession for twenty years, with the possibility of extending the exclusive use of the sanctuary and the partial sale of the property. In practice, the yards' investor, tomorrow, acquires the concession for twenty years - we do not know the price - with the possibility of extending the exclusive right of use on the zone or parts of the cauldron area in front of the Scaramaga shipyard installations. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, even at the last minute listen to the people of western Athens! Listen to the local government of western Athens! Listen to them, because you are indeed depriving the inhabitants of the many Western Athens - especially environmentally speaking, I would say - of any access to the sea front. West Athens and this region have been downgraded for years by government policies, since war....
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u302	In conclusion, my colleague, you have already spoken for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u303	I shall conclude, Mr President. ...and he really has the right to have access to the seafront. To stop West Athens from operating like the backyard - I would say - as a whole! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u304	The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Besiropoulos, is called in Stepma. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government acted in legislative terms on 24 December to deal with urgent situations. One of these was the distribution of the social dividend to those who really need support, and indeed with enlargement not only of the amount available but also of the number of beneficiaries. As I explained in my speech to the committee, the distribution of the social dividend in July 2019, when the New Democracy became a government with the vote of the citizens, was extremely questionable. And that's because the previous government shared everything available there was just before the elections. He thought that this would reverse the climate. It is a culture that refers to yesterday, has its roots in populism and offends citizens. Because the citizens turned their backs on these practices and voted against the government of Mr. Tsipras, who had unleashed the absolute tax raid on society for four years. The social dividend distributed, ladies and gentlemen, was a product of the financial space created by the efforts and the administration of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis. This has also been a constant effort, since the amount of the social dividend has increased from EUR 175 million to EUR 215 million, while the number of beneficiaries and beneficiaries has increased. Persons with disabilities, beneficiaries of the Social Benefits Agency, regardless of age, but also those who are long-term and short-term unemployed, are the beneficiaries of the social dividend. At the same time, the number of beneficiaries has increased and reached the three hundred, seven thousand, with their families, of course, that figure is higher. I would like to quote some accounting evidence in order to inform the House. On December 30, 2019, 186,138,400 euros were paid to two hundred sixty-five thousand nine hundred only twelve households, who had successfully completed the application through the social dividend platform. As regards the objections, by 15 January 2020 the social dividend platform had been submitted to seventy-seven thousand ninety-six objections, nine thousand three hundred thirteen beneficiaries had already paid the dividend by 30 December. The process of cross-checking the files of both rejected and objections with the beneficiaries’ file is under way. And as I said in my speech in the Committee on Economic Affairs, the seventeen thousand households who are beneficiaries of the dividend and have not yet been paid, this procedure will be completed by the end of February. The delay is due to the errors made in the applications, which are identified and corrected. It was also of urgent importance that the settlement of debts through the extrajudicial mechanism was extended by four months, as the deadline expired on 31 December 2019. This means that those with debts will be able to apply for the adjustment of their debts on the electronic platform of the Private Debt Management Secretariat of the Ministry of Finance by 30 April 2020. This is the last extension and the last opportunity to take advantage of this framework of settlement of debts through the extrajudicial compromise, since from 1 May there will be a single and comprehensive framework for all debts. This four-month extension was necessary since, with the previous institutional framework passed by the SYRIZA Government, the debt arrangement by means of the extrajudicial compromise expired at the end of 2019. The government, through the legislative act, has come to deal with another major problem, which concerns the operation of real estate offices. As they all know, a deadline for the gradual abolition of mortgages was set on 17 January 2020. And this deadline was set by a law passed by the previous government in 2018. He had, however, undertaken to set up branches in the real estate offices, but also to transfer the employees of the mortgages to the legal person governed by public law “Greek Register”. What happened to all this? Almost nothing. This is why it was considered necessary to extend for two more years the deadline for the abolition of all the mortgages, unpaid and unpaid, of the country, of the real estate offices of Rhodes, Kos and Leros, as well as of the real estate offices of Thessaloniki and Piraeus. Over these two years, the creation of branches will have been completed, covering the area of responsibility and work of the mortgages that existed until today throughout Greece. I would like to end by referring to the amendments tabled by the Ministry of Finance. Article 1 of the amendment, with a general number of 157 and a special 36, lays down the irreparable and duty-free nature of aid and compensation granted to citizens and businesses for natural disasters. It is clearly defined in the content of the amendment, that this amount is not bound, but is not netted with certain debts to tax administration and public administration, but with debts to the municipalities, regions, insurance funds or credit institutions. Article 2 of the amendment contains a provision on a social basis, after switching to the reduced rate of VAT 6% diagnostic radiopharmaceuticals and radiotherapy services intended for the treatment of cancer patients and other distressing diseases. The Prime Minister's commitment is being made to facilitate patient access to high-cost medicines. And this article, but also the previous one, I think they should concentrate the consent of all parties. Article 3 increases the organic positions in the Ministry of Finance due to the increased needs in the General Accounting Office of the State in the field of budgetary policy planning and accounting monitoring of budgetary figures, as well as in budgetary control throughout the general government. There is a wide range of work and tasks that requires qualified human resources to be carried out in the light of the implementation of a new accounting plan for all the bodies of the general government and the audit work of the Directorate-General for Financial Control of the General Secretariat for Financial Policy has been increased. Article 8 introduces a provision rationalising and streamlining the methodology and the system of grading and evolution of ADA staff on the basis of job profiles taking into account the service needs of the authority. In order to prevent those who are trying to create false impressions, I have to state clearly that the new ADP rating does not affect any institutionalised and given workers' rights. Indeed, it is expressly laid down in the Act that the provisions of Law 3528/2007, i.e. the Civil Service Status Code, are not affected as far as the classification of officials is concerned. The proposed provision will set out descriptions of the ADP's jobs in which the item of the post will be reflected, the main tasks, the formal and desirable qualifications required and their competences and the required level of competence. A special rating system will then be set up for AIAE in parallel with the rating system for the public sector and the jobs of the authority will be assigned to these grades. Finally, officials will be classified, placed or moved to jobs and grades of the rating system on the basis of safe and objective criteria, such as the standard qualifications required and the minimum level of competence of each job, as already reflected in the job profiles. Again, I repeat that the classification and placement at the jobs of the ADA do not affect the ranking of officials in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Procedure. The purpose of the arrangement is to rationalise the establishment plan of the ADA and to contribute to the unequivocal and meritful selection of the most competent and appropriate staff for each job. Following the final state and the recent assignment of the power to adopt individual administrative acts to the Directors-General, the new AIA rating is the third in turn of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis in the functioning of the public administration in a key area. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] I think it is very important and it should be supported across-the-board by the amendment with a general number of 163 and a special 42, which means that we are legislating to exempt the VAT on the supply of goods and services by a taxable supplier to a donor using them in the context of a donation contract concluded with a public sector body or with private entities serving the public interest or with other entities supervised by these bodies. It is a legislative initiative that motivates institutions and institutions that show strong social sensitivity, while facilitating significant donations to the Greek public, such as mobile and immovable property for public purposes, such as hospitals, school units, buildings for cultural and cultural purposes. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to believe that all the political forces have learned lessons from the time of the crisis and that these lessons will lead to new models of political behaviour. The government has proceeded with this act of legislation, which we are called upon to ratify today in order to deal with urgent issues and distortions. And there are already measurable results for this intervention. I want to believe that this has been understood by everyone and will be expressed by the vote of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Dritsas has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u307	Thank you very much, Madam President. I do not know exactly whether it is an evil coincidence, but this act of legislation and, in particular, the amendments, in most of the regulations, are one to one that describes and confirms what has happened in our country in the 2000s and which has led to the tragedy of the country's bankruptcy. The arrangements after 15 years or ten or more look like the killer returning to the crime scene. Why not think about this when both the out-of-court regulation mechanism and the auctions have emerged precisely from the policies of that decade? How should this not be considered, when the absence of any port policy and planning for ports had led to productive units that could have dynamism, should we also receive ports that had neither personal nor infrastructure nor anything? And we have led all the regional ports to profit and have a slow and investment programme. How can anyone not think of it when at Scaramaga shipyards the 2008 State aids - as they were called, unjustly, in our view, but in any case, in the context of a policy that was carried out at that time - condemned them to bankruptcy? How can one not think of it when - as our rapporteur, Mr Hatzigiannakis, said - the unprecedented doubling of the electricity price and completely unexplained in 2006 has burdened LARCO, despite debt regulation in 2017, then by SYRIZA? How can one not think of the 2006 criminal decision on the advance sale of the quantities of nickel that damaged the company by EUR 500,000, 000 and many other issues? This is the Greek tragedy. Indeed, our government has done too much in conditions so unfavourable to put these issues in order. And when we faced the issue of forced privatisation, those that were already under way, did not crucify our hands and we did not say, "he slaughtered me with everything I could sanctify", but at the port of Piraeus and at the port of Thessaloniki and many other forced privatisations, which were not the best from the point of view of development planning, we ensured what? For example, at the port of Piraeus we have ensured the eve of the signing of the contract. Both the employees and the port workers signed collective labour contracts of two durations in the knowledge of the new investor, who was now on the stools to be bound, at least, for two years. It is five, and the commitment remains. It also remains the commitment that there should be no dismissal, as should the commitment to grant the coastline of fertilisers and to be attributed to the inhabitants of Drapetsonas and Keratini as an over-popular range for the entire Attica project and initiative, which has admired it in the election - hypocritically, of course - and the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, on his visit there. And accompanying this, the final concession of the port area to Patras. All this, Minister, was issues that both the EBRD and HIAD and laws and confusions and too many things. With stubbornness and a system, aiming at social benefit and recompense for society, we have ensured it, both in the shipbuilding area and in the rights of companies active in it and in many others. While the agreement and the opening of the tender was finalised, however, by insisting on the Prime Minister then and the government and all of us and SYRIZA, we have achieved a great deal. Did we achieve anything that could be saved and now that you have the comfort and the ability to tell us that LARCO will be given with the discretion of the investor to keep those who do not want to keep them? Is it possible not to exhaust all the inventions that can be made by a government in order to guarantee all social rights? What's it supposed to mean by growth and privatization when it's at the expense of society? But you know exactly the recipe with which the country went bankrupt and we acquired "LARCO", Scaramaga shipyards and much more. Apparently, it's not the only reason, but it's the main reason. Absolutely central. And you repeat the same policies that led the country to bankruptcy. That's why I'm saying the killer goes back to the crime scene. With stubbornness and a system, aiming at social benefit and recompense for society, we have ensured it, both in the shipbuilding area and in the rights of companies active in it and in many others. While the agreement and the notice of competition were finalised, however, insisting on the Prime Minister and the Government and all of us and SYRIZA, we have achieved a great deal. Did we achieve anything that could be saved and now that you have the comfort and the ability to tell us that LARCO will be given with the discretion of the investor to keep those he wants and those who does not want to keep them? Is it possible not to exhaust all the inventions that can be made by a government in order to guarantee all social rights? What's it supposed to mean by growth and privatization when it's at the expense of society? But you know exactly the recipe with which the country went bankrupt and we acquired LARCO, Scaramaga Shipyard and much more. Apparently, it's not the only reason, but it's the main reason. Absolutely central. And you repeat the same policies that led the country to bankruptcy. That's why I'm saying the killer goes back to the crime scene. So it is not possible to plan the development of the regional ports and not to take into account the real plans that you should make for the dynamism of the combined transport of each port, land, air, sea, and the prospect that each port has for the area in which it is located and with the particular circumstances in which it operates. The studies of HIDED are to be discarded in the trash. They are so preoccupied and apologise to other circles that the cycles of TEAD do not have the adequacy of know-how, despite their degrees and doctorates, precisely because they operate with purposes of another type. Make serious combined transport development studies for each port. We started them. He said Mr. Bukouros, we didn't make it. Of course, there's too much that we didn't catch up with. After all, most of us started them after 2018, when we were able to calculate some things on more stable ground. In this direction, then, there can be a hope that this country will have development foundations that have social value and sustainability. Otherwise, there are gifts to potential investors, supposedly by increasing profitability, that growth will come. That story we know. And in Greece, but also throughout the world, only inequalities give rise to this choice and only to new risks of bankruptcy. That is why I am once again saying that with these amendments the killer is going back to the crime scene. Uh, this crime can't happen again in this country. The Greek people have paid for it very much and cannot tolerate it being repeated by this kind of biennial policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u308	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Sarakiotis now has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes and Mrs Chabika Iatridou from New Democracy is prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will only deal with the subject of 'LARCO' today and not with other issues contained in the bill, 'LARCO', the only ferro-nickel production company in the European Union and one of the top world. A company that offers more than a thousand fellow citizens, which is the lung of economic life, not only in Fthiotida, but also in Evia, Boeotia, Kozani, all of Central Greece, as well as other regions. A company with which they are interconnected intrinsically around ten thousand ATMs. A company which, in recent years - I am sorry to say this - - is methodically and systematically, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have deceived it. And the culmination comes, with one amendment - if possible! - put an end to life, to the viability of this company. Initially, you are bringing about a 25% reduction in the wages of workers. After you have taken an amendment to the principle of your governance to the Golden Boys, your 'children', and you gave them 7,500 euros, are you now coming to cut 25% of whom? Of the workers who burn in the furnaces in Larymna or those who live in cancer in the same area? This is your supposed sensitivity. Initially 25% reductions, liquidation and deep bankruptcy. This is your plan, your unexistent plan. If anyone has referred to the past and sees how you handled the issue of this huge company, there is a mixture of incompetence, mismanagement and non-transparent procedures in decision-making. We have been listening for the past few months but also today to turn your arrows and essentially to the previous government to charge the situation of 'LARCO'. Have you really forgotten about the hedging toxic from 2006-2010? Do you remember who was in the company's administration when it lost profits, revenues of 450 million euros? The names of Screkas and Thanasulas tell you something? They are New Democracy officials, you put them in, they led the company to the loss of about half a billion euros and now you do not remember them. We heard that LARCO owes PPC etc. Of course it owes PPC "LARCO", but tell me, when in 2006 you effectively tripled the electricity price paid by LARCO, an energy-intensive company, and made it uncompetitive, how did you expect LARCO not to owe it? Was it a move, which backed this powerful company, the tripling of the electricity price, or was it between the methods you were doing to get to the current situation? From there, I heard you mention the 2014 conviction. Indeed, the March 2014 conviction in the actions and omissions of what governments is based on? Is it New Democracy? You guys were great, technocrats, etc. When you were giving the aid to Larco in this way, did you not know that tomorrow - tomorrow the European Union will be coming and will convict the company of alleged State aid? Now, today, you're "sucking" everything, that "LARCO" is in a terrible situation. For the first time I hear him talking like this, Minister, who wants to dive into his portfolio. It is probably the second time after PPC, because the Minister of Energy did the same with PPC in the previous period. He repaid it because he told us at the beginning of the summer that PPC does not even have columns to get, the increases in electricity prices in September and PPC is now fine, all good, all good with PPC. After finishing with PPC, from October and then it began to falsify and turn against "LARCO". You want to sell a company, which from morning till night, you're deceiving with public positions? This is really unprecedented worldwide. In the same spectators' work, that is, as you operated with PPC and its valuation, you do with "LARCO". I have heard the same Minister speak in rumours in the past few days. He really outdid himself. When the Minister wants to report, if he wants to report about rheumatism in the future, it would be good to talk to his colleague, the Deputy Minister for Rural Development, Mr Skreka, whose father was appointed in 2009 to PPC with a few wages - and then came and increased them to 9,000 euros retrospectively, because he offered a great deal of work to LARCO. And not only that, but he hired your Minister's wife to "LARCO" with a salary of 4,000 euros. There's not much the woman gets! And after recruiting the wife, he hired the father-in-law, the husband-in-law, the retired officer, with EUR 2,700 in the security of LARCO. If you do not remember the names, etc., I will submit to you in the Minutes the position of Mr Stathakis, who mentions names and money in detail in the previous years, because you have probably forgotten about them and have the courage to speak about rumours. I have heard something else unimportant from the Minister for the Environment about 'LARCO', which he has not only said today. Today he said features that LARCO pollutes wildly. I don't know how pollutes or pollutes, as he was saying, but he probably forgot that with Law 4223/2013 he signs and gives extensions to all the licenses that LARCO had, as he says, he was infested wild. I shall submit that for the Minutes. Before reporting and ironing SYRIZA for "green" etc. The Minister for the Environment should remember what he signed in previous years. You have also called on trade unionists. I am going to refer to the previous communication from the ASE 'LARCO', not SYRIZA, PASOK, the JRC. They mention the people who supported you, voted for you and led you to these Heavens: "The sterile policy and the refusal of the RIS, without having tried to find a viable solution for the company, leads us to extreme situations, because they were electorally different from those we face up to today." Of course. You said electorally 'better jobs','more jobs'. These are most of the best jobs we see, but I don't know what other promises you made to the workers in Larco. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I should like to mention another part of the communication of the LARCO ICE, which says that "If the government believes that it will "dill" with only one investor, old acquaintance, through a subsidiary with other names, the guards are aware of. Competitions with a dealer are not competitions. I'll testify to her for the Minutes too, if you want to reply. They are the people who support you, the people who vote for you, the people who blame you and wait for some answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u310	Your places to tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u311	I have heard that it is an excellent proposal that solves the issue of 'LARCO'. I wonder, where are the New Democracy MPs from Phthytida, from Evia? Where are they going to go, get on the Step of the House and support...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u312	I'm here, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u313	I'll listen to you, Mr. Economou. Where are your colleagues to support this terrible solution, which solves all the problems of Larco?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u314	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u315	Yes, Madam President. I shall refer to two tables. One table shows the damage to LARCO in 2008-2009. In 2008 it was 116 million, in 2009 it was 125 million, in 2013 it was 76 million with the administrations of New Democracy’s ‘best administrations’. But we will also see prices respectively: in 2007 it was 37,000 average. The highest price ever sold. That's when the curse started. How is it possible to start the curse when the nickel is launching? Accordingly, on SYRIZA, the lowest price in 2016 was 9,000. It was the lowest price since 2002.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u316	Please, Mr. Colleague, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u317	Withdrawal of the amendment. You are neither interested, as you promised, in the company's viability nor in workers' positions. The understanding you've had goes for a walk. You decide and legislate yourself. Withdraw the amendment and sit on a table - finally - for dialogue, because the issue of 'LARCO' is a huge one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u318	Mr. Colleague, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a relative tolerance, but please do not go too far over time because there are other Members to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u319	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u320	Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u321	I said I would intervene with every member of the SYRIZA when he does not submit his position. Mr Sarakiotis forgot to say in his position of 35 million Greek taxpayers and obviously did not tell us his position. I challenge you for the second time. We did it together in Lamia, where I challenged you to say your position and said: "We are opposition. You will take the snake out of the hole." I challenge you now. What's your position?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u322	Where did I say that, Mr. Stakoura?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u323	Mr. Colleague, I didn't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u324	Tell me about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u325	Mr Colleague, I did not give you the floor, and you know that there is a procedure. You are asking the Bureau for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u326	Let Mr. Stakoras tell us when I said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u327	I still didn't give you the floor and go on. Please very much. So you have the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u328	Let Mr. Stavros tell us where I made this position, first of all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u329	Minister, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u330	We met together at an event in Lamia in the presence of a Deputy Prime Minister. I have also caused you to be present at third parties and you have said what I am saying now. I repeat: “I am opposition. You will take the snake out of the hole." I would point out for the second time: tell me your position. What do you suggest?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u331	The reason for Mrs Chabika Iatridis from New Democracy has been for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u332	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the act of legislation we are discussing today, the Government - and on the basis of what the Minister said earlier - shows once again that it is honouring its commitments and is working systematically to address the problems that have been inherited by the ratification of this act of legislation signed on 24 December 2019 to increase the social dividend for 2019, to extend the extrajudicial settlement mechanism and to extend the deadline for the abolition of mortgages and real estate offices and other provisions. The results of this policy are visible and tangible for Greeks and Greeks. And this is reflected, both in the significant improvement of the economic climate in the country and in recent polls, according to which the acceptance by the citizens of economic policy implemented by the Mitsotakis Government is very high. Of course, from what has been perceived so far, obviously SYRIZA's colleagues, the Qualificational Opposition, have not yet understood what message they received six months ago from Greek citizens, from the Greek people. I would like to point out here that all this was done in a system by the Ministry of Finance and its political leadership, such as the interventions, which have so far been perceived and have visible effects on the economy and the daily lives of our fellow citizens. Mostly happened when the SYRIZA government had left no financial space for social dividends, because it decided, ladies and gentlemen, to distribute it in May 2019 in order to win the citizens' vote. In fact, he baptized it as a 'third pension', while he does not hesitate to blame us, because we then voted as an Opposition. The Mitsotakis Government and the financial sector also found an increase in the social dividend. Furthermore, by means of the Act of Legislative content, the Government and the Ministry of Finance extended the extrajudicial arrangement until 30 April 2020, knowing the scale of the problem. It also extended the abolition of Rhodes, Kos and Leros real estate offices. In addition to the ratification of the Act of Legislative content, the Government adds four other articles, including arrangements for the temporary reintroduction of the building cooperative of permanent officials of the Hellenic Army to the supervision of the Ministry of Defence, extending the exemption of the Greek Air Industry from the obligation to produce a certificate of insurance and tax information, an arrangement to apply a zero interest rate to the time-limits of the Deposit Guarantee Fund, in the event that the inscribed notes of the Greek State-owned three-month period bear a zero interest rate. Finally, arrangements are made for the scope of the special liquidation of credit institutions. Furthermore, amendments were tabled by the Ministry of Finance and other relevant ministries. I shall dwell on the amendment by the Ministry of Finance that the grant of Article 36 of Law 2459/1997 paid to the victims of natural disasters is defined as a tax-free and indemnification to the hands of the public or third parties, so that companies can stand on their feet. It is a very important provision, particularly for us in Rhodes, which has recently faced the consequences of last November's severe bad weather. Of course, I would also like to focus on the amendment which reduces the rate of drugs and radiation treatment for cancer patients to 6%, an amendment which is part of a series of interventions by the Mitsotakis Government on such a sensitive subject. It is obvious that we support and vote for this bill. However, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of our debate this evening, to highlight an issue which does not concern the present regulations of the draft law, but concerns many of our fellow citizens. This issue concerns cooperative banks, which are in liquidation. These banks are also the Cooperative Bank of Dodecanese, as well as cooperative banks from other regions of the country. The Cooperative Bank of Dodecanese is in liquidation by the company established in 2016 and has been appointed by the Bank of Greece for this purpose. From the information I have from the President of the Dodecanese Chamber, as well as from bank executives in Rhodes and other institutions, the clearing company is pressing the borrowers of the Dodecanese Cooperative Bank in terms of repayment and settlement far more unfavourable than those provided for the systemic banks. Since it is obviously not possible to punish the businessman and the individual because he trusted the cooperative bank of his place and because it is not possible to use two standards for borrowers and even though the legal framework followed is a given, as the Dodecanese Chamber of Commerce says, the clearing company's policy may cause many problems in the local economy of Dodecanese and I imagine all the other regions. It would therefore be a good thing for the Ministry of Finance - an issue that I discussed earlier and with the relevant Secretary of State for Finance, Mr Zavos - to see the issue, in collaboration with the Bank of Greece, with the commander of whom I had met today, to give an appropriate, fair and sustainable solution to the important problem facing all those who had received loans from the Dodecanese Cooperative Bank and obviously also from the other cooperative banks. I believe and I am sure that it is something that we should look closely at, as we do with all the issues that concern our society, our islands, Greece and many citizens as a whole, especially because at such difficult times it is important that loans should be given, as we have so far, but also that the economic and social fabric of a crucial area of our country is not disturbed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u333	Thank you too, my fellow Member, and for keeping your time. Mr. Gokas from the People's Movement has the floor for seven minutes, and immediately afterwards Mr. Mulkiotis, also from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we also have legislative acts and ministerial amendments - nine, ten - for today's sitting. All that's going back to normality isn't. I shall refer to three issues of the bill and an amendment tabled by the Change Movement. Our rapporteur, our parliamentary representative and other colleagues in the Change Movement will then be put to the vote. In terms of increasing the social dividend from EUR 175 million to EUR 215 million, we are positive for any provision that relieves small and medium-sized households. However, we repeat that it needs a stable framework that is not based on overcrowding and does not lead to tenders of sensitivity to the detriment of the citizen's dignity. In any case, this should be paid to beneficiaries without inequality and omissions, such as those created last December, when many of our fellow citizens were surprised. And it was the Change Movement that, with its criticism, prompted the Ministry of Finance to change the criteria for becoming beneficiaries and families with a disability of over 24 years as opposed to what was originally announced. So we need an institutional framework so that there are no longer the same failures, an institutional framework that neither there exists in the SYRIZA nor in the New Democracy. As regards the extension of the validity of Law 4469/2017, we now consider that the failure of the online platform of SYRIZA and New Democracy is now confirmed. This law is addressed to the borrowers for a comprehensive treatment of their dues. However, we all know that few are able to, in the end, regulate their debts and the delay is too long. The problem, of course, is the mass auctions and the first house on 1 May - they are fifty thousand and over - instead of, of course, 1 January that SYRIZA has inherited us. However, the government's announcements, ladies and gentlemen, and its ministers only fear and concern, are cultivating citizens for the protection of their main first homes, which is, in fact, considered to be an injurious factor in the economy. A neoliberal ideological concept that ignores the importance of social cohesion for a country's development and economy. The Change Movement has clear proposals for the effective and effective protection of the dwellings of the economically weakest social strata and not the weakest, which is another of the strange views we heard from SYRIZA and his Chief, responsible for the situation in which the first residence has been driven. We therefore call for the protection of the first residence of L.3869/2010 to be restored for the truly weak, as it had been legislated by the PASOK government, before its changes by the SYRIZA government, which made it ineffective and now it is no longer implemented. We also call for the possibility of using the public contribution, in order to improve the ability to repay the debtor, to allow the borrower to refinance his debt on more favourable terms, as well as having the opportunity to buy his own loans before the funds. However, for us another process takes precedence, which, as a Change Movement, we ask, is to establish that, apart from informing him of the transfer of his loan to the fund, he will also be informed of the amount with which this loan is transferred. It's simple, logical and self-evident. Only by introducing a framework of legislation that is safe and specific can citizens protect their main and first residence. The crisis still brings its results and society is not ready to cope without a protective framework. Contrary to what you want to show, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the reality shows that the majority of citizens - 70% according to a recent survey - are unable to fulfil its obligations. I continue on the occasion of the extension of the time limit of the country's mortgages and property offices being abolished. I would like to address a very specific issue concerning my region, Arta. This is a decision by which the institution "KETMOLOGY S.A." abolishes the special unpaid Filippiada Treasury and includes it in the established branch of the Preveza of the Epirus Land Office. This decision has raised reactions to local society - the Municipality of Artaion, the Municipality of Zirou and the Region of Epirus have sent memos to the Minister and to the "ELLENIC ETHLOGY S.A." - and of course in the legal world of Arta, who has been on strike for a month, claiming the local jurisdiction of the reported mortgage and property office legally and fairly, because the region of the Filipida Moroccan Ministry, as well as the Filipida Peace Court, in which it is subject to judicial proceedings, belongs to the Arta Region, despite the fact that it administratively falls within the Preveza Regional Unit and has already been transferred to Arta, has joined the Arta Peace Court and not Preveza. It covers fifteen local communities in the Arta Region and twelve in Preveza with a municipality. They're all closer to Arta. For decades these citizens have been served by the Philippida mortgage. Arta is just 12 km away from Philippiada and from now on they should go forty-five kilometers away in Preveza. That decision should therefore be repealed. This mortgage facility should remain in Philippiada and, when we reach the level of digital operation for archives and procedures, the competence to transfer, as is reasonable, to the Arta branch of the Epirus Land Office, with the maintenance of a office in Philippida where the analogue file will be found. It is not possible for all those responsible not to understand the great mistake that is being made. It is the responsibility of the Greek KEYOLOGY S.A. to understand the problem in its essence, not to insist stubbornly and rigidly on a decision that it has taken hastily, since it seems that there was also time with the extensions given to go for later in the definitive solution. I would ask for your intervention, Mr President-in-Office, and in particular the Minister for the Environment, Mr Hatzidakis. The problem is more general and it concerns other citizens throughout the country, where there are similar problems, and if necessary somewhere, and it is a matter of law, that the law should also be revised, so that they continue to operate such mortgages that serve the citizens, who have been more generally troubled over the last few years. Because laws and decisions, when they have to, change with other laws and other decisions that solve problems for citizens and society. And I close by citing a reference to the amendment tabled by Members of the Change Movement to abolish the judiciary in the recog­nition of powers of a multi-judgmental court. Even now, ladies and gentlemen, after the decision of the Multilateral Court of First Instance, we call on the government to respect legality, accept the amendment and definitively to prevent the enormous financial burden on the citizens of Europe which creates an issue of unconstitutionality in relation to the costs of citizens' access to justice. A comprehensive study on these issues is needed, not fragmentary measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Mulkiotis now has the floor from the Change Movement for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Madam President. It is well known that the act of legislation which you bring to ratification and from 24-12-2019 and which, in the committees, had been consulted and debated today in plenary, unfortunately, despite the fact that its content was very specific last night, after a special communication from the Government, the amendment concerning 'LARGO' was tabled. What's it about? It concerns the closure of LARCO. I will also take the floor for the amendment on extending the time of the extrajudicial mechanism and, of course, on the amendment tabled by the Change Movement for the Judiciary. In relation to the amendment to the judicial record, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, the Multimember Court of First Instance of Patras with a fully documented and reasoned decision quite clearly states as unconstitutional the provision of a judicial mark in the recog­nitions of the polypartite Court of First Instance. What the court said is not unprecedented. The court adopted the science, the views of judicial associations, the views of all legal associations, the logic...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u337	Political procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u338	And, of course, he kept the political process, which the government otherwise wanted to abolish and has abolished so far. At least let the prestige of the government and of the Minister of Justice be saved by abolishing the judiciary in the reading actions of the diagnosed person accepting the amendment. He wants courage, but it's the only way out for the seriousness of the process. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the act of legislation which refers to a specific extension of the extrajudicial mechanism, to which I should like to refer at the end, I would like to refer to the subject of 'Larco', which comes in a way that does not deserve, in a way which is devalued for the whole process and history of such an operation. It demonstrates and reveals the government's curiosity over such an issue that it brings with it an amendment. Where has it been heard by an amendment to place on track the process and the launch of the abolition, dismantling and sale of a historic company? Apart from the leaks that had been made at times, in addition to the promises made by the Minister and to a question related to accidents at work and asked all of us for our consent, to find a way to save LARCO. There was no debate either with the political parties, which are the major, nor with the institutions and unions, nor with the local communities. This is the government, so it legislates and so it wants to move forward! Full neoliberal logic. The reason why the people have been over, but they want them to be adopted and enforced in every way. Ladies and gentlemen, today when we are discussing LARCO a few hours ago, a thousand five hundred workers were on the road peacefully, demonstrating and asking for their work. Nothing else! No other luxury. Their job. And yet the government comes with this amendment, with the articles it contains, it mentions nothing about the future of workers. He doesn't mention anything at all. The Minister, unfortunately, says nothing about these people. Because we have to understand that workers are not only young. They're both old and older and retired tomorrow. Really, so much annoyance for these workers? Didn't the government see anything about these workers? And, in any case, many bad words have been heard, many complaints have been made by the Minister. A lot of them were the "quisouria" of "LARCO". Apologies, Mr Minister for Finance, absenteeism, Mr Hatzidakis, do you ask: does not Larco have any good? Didn't Larco have anything serious in her life? Say a word, even about the eyes of the world that the popular word says. That's a logic of depreciation! In any case, the 'LARCO' is 'LARCO'. The workers? This manpower? Tens of deaths over a number of years existed. It is well known in this Chamber what has happened. Nothing, nor does that move the government and keep saying what it says to this day? How far will the logic, in order not to use another word, of the government on how to privatise and eliminate the country's essential and vital interests? LARCO is an industry that could be one of the main factors in the production of wealth in our country. Instead, therefore, the government is abolishing it. Unfortunately, it does not ensure its viability and leaves an open window for compulsory bankruptcy, certainly, with a significant part of its assets being sold. It provides for the company to be placed under a special management regime with close deadlines so that a tendering procedure for the transfer of assets and for the compulsory commencement of bankruptcy proceedings may be carried out soon if the tender or tenders are not completed in a reasonable time, by selling a significant part of the company's assets. For all this, as I said, the government had prepared the ground with complete deception. For how else can one interpret the fact that there has been a systematic disdain in the media over the last few months by the relevant Minister? It will therefore be sold in full indifference to the world, but also to its credibility in the market. It suddenly stops its credit, resulting in the already existing liquidity problem being gigantic, with what this implies. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen of the government, what government doubled the price of the kilowatt in 2006 and the debt to PPC, which is a shareholder in LARCO? What government has hedging been made and has never reached LARCO funds the EUR 500 million, as both colleagues and the Change Movement have said, but also the rest of the Opposition. Which government did all this happen to? So does the government not care about employment and jobs, the use of mineral wealth, the most important thing for the national economy and local communities, the interest of PPC, which is a shareholder, the protection of the environment? We, as a Change Movement, after the discussions that we had with both the unions and the workers, and given that there is expected to be an increase in the price and demand of nickel due to its use in electric accumulators, had clearly proposed the treatment of the debt to PPC with a clause of fluctuation in the nickel price, the rationalisation of production processes and the upgrading of the quality of the ore using cobalt. Unfortunately, the Government of New Democracy insists on solutions leading to deadlocks, following mistakes and omissions of its own evil past. I will say about 'LARCO', concluding before I refer to the first residence, this. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, just a minute. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of a saying: 'Greek does not need oil wells. He has something better, nickel." It is a classic phrase, which is still up to date. For this reason, at least in terms of 'LARCO', take the amendment back in order to save dignity. I come to the protection of the first residence and the extrajudicial mechanism. I will submit - as soon as they have been printed on the relevant websites - the results for the protection of first residence and the extrajudicial mechanism, which are completely but completely negative. Does the government not know how hostile this platform exists to the environment? You dare come in and try how the process is done. It's a hostile platform. [[At this point, the Member Georgios Mulkiotis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Can I tell you something? If you see how farmers are treated by this platform, it is a unique phenomenon. You should be aware of the political liquidation that only one of the requests from the farmers has been accepted. From the banks, none. Repeat: In the extrajudicial mechanism, none. This is how these issues are handled by the platforms. Minister, I fear that there will be no protection of first home. You should be aware that the debtors who enter the platform are being treated strongly in order to protect themselves. I heard your call. That's good for you. But I'm afraid you haven't been informed how hostile - and I repeat - this is the process. Unfortunately, you will not achieve what you wish, I believe, because you do not want to achieve.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u339	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u340	I can't believe that the first house will enter auctions, but it's going to be a very negative development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty students and students and two fellow teachers from the 3rd High School of Ioannina. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now Mr Santorinios has the floor from SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes. Please try to keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u342	I will try, Madam President, but it is a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u343	There will be tolerance, but not so much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, once again we are enjoying this perfect state and this right legislative initiative. Once again in a ratification of an act of legislation - and you say that it came out on 24 December - Parliament was not open - and I do not know how many amendments. And are these amendments important? These amendments are very important. And you bring them along without any consultation. You know, ladies and gentlemen, our country came out of the memos on 21 August 2018, but unfortunately you have not understood it. Legislation in non-Monthly Conditions as Memorandum Memorandum Memorandum Memorandum. And why am I saying that? The amendment you bring to the ten regional ports is what the internal troika had called for. Whatever the GOD had asked for and the SYRIZA government removed it, you bring it to us. As if the GOI itself had written this amendment. Why did we reject these arrangements? Because we want to ensure the public interest. Because we believe that the ten ports are a lever for the development of the national and local economy. Because the ports are connected with the life of the coastal municipalities. Are we ideologists? We have protected the ports, in accordance with Europe's standard. 87% of the ports in Europe, of the large ports at the moment, are public ports. Finally, what are your positions for the ports, why have you confused us? Why are you hiding your plan and not discussing with local communities? Why do you bring an amendment and you do not bring the normal procedure to discuss with operators, with ELIME, the Association of Ports of Greece, with the municipalities, with the workers in the ports, that is, OMYLEE? What does this amendment bring and it is so bad? Extend for a further 10 years the concessions of the Greek State to the Port Authority of the ten regional ports. It is obviously a gift to some who have approached you and said 'We want to take the ports'. It doesn't make them look like the big superprofit and they want another ten years. But we are warning you and we are telling you now: it is a legal waste of this procedure, because these conventions have been ratified by law, so they must be amended and they must come again to be ratified by law. Watch it. What else does he do? It paves the way for more than one, but also for at the same time concessions, not only for mere concessions of activities and services or for a network of concessions in the various ports, as we have done. What does that mean now? It means that from the back door you bring the full sale of the harbors. "Master concession" is called in my village! And Mr. Bukokokouros was revealing, he said: 'What happened when the port of Volos was in public'? So what are you doing? You want to sell them. It's over. That is exactly what we negotiated and avoided negotiating and outside the memorandum you are coming and doing this. Why is it bad, some good-looking guy gonna tell me? A private person can from today get all the activities of the harbor. What does that mean? That the ports will be left with functional shells and that the Port Authoritys will be led to bankruptcy. This will lead workers to redundancies. What else harm can he bring? That specialist investors will be discouraged. There are marina investors, there are investors for cruises, there are investors for handling freight, investors with experience and who also have specific customers. In this way the ports will be upgraded, this will make use of the ports. We learn that some discourage such investors from being interested in ports. What else are you doing? Remove from the Port Agency the possibility of entrusting the viability studies of their ports to external consultants. You in the free economy do what the HICP asked for, so that the Port Authority doesn't have a say. In other words, the undertaking, whether or not it is interested in providing its services, should have no say in the viability study. Very good, very good! I do not understand what this logic is which requires an undertaking to have no say in what is going to happen. But what will these sustainability studies show? The reasonable but also the necessary level of compensation for the viability of the port, which the concessionaire must pay. That is precisely what frightens you, that is, that it will prove that the reasonable price is higher than the 5% you want to set a ceiling. This is how you drive the Port Agency to bankruptcy. You also define, as a 5% fee ceiling, regardless of the outcome of the viability study. Really, then why do you do sustainability studies and you even rushed? Why only 5%? If it is shown that the condition of viability from the viability study must be greater, what then? I would remind you that you, as a government, granted the PPA to the PPA at the time, that is, with a variable exchange on the revenues of the PPA received by the public authorities at that time 24.5%, while provision was made for a fixed rent. Today this port is first in the Mediterranean. Did he have anything he paid for 24.5%? All the above, of course, are explained, because the relevant Minister, Mr. Plakkatakis, said that the development of the country is dictated by what the market wants, and so the Ministry will first listen to investors and then legislate according to their will, not on the basis of the public interest. You tell us that in this way ports will be attractive. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Madam President. We are also telling you that European reality itself has been falsifying you on a solemn basis. 87% of the ports in Europe are under public control, 59% state, 33% municipality and 7% mixed property, but the government has the majority of shares. Why is that? Because the administrations are pursuing a mix of economic and non-economic objectives which a private individual cannot achieve. 76% seeks economic and social development in the wider port area, 62% more efficient connection with the hinterland, 58% job creation in the wider region and others. You are, after all, very predictable and very anachronistic, but mainly you are obsessively neoliberal. Local societies and people, however, will not be fooled again. You sell their ports and they will react - and this time they will react forcefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u345	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u346	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u347	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u348	I would like to put forward a final point of order and say that all the ministerial amendments - even those which I do not sign as the Minister of Finance - are accepted and which do not make any parliamentary amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Now Mr Maraveyas has the floor from New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u350	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, since this morning we have not heard many crises - and most of all comparisons - with the debate that has been reopened for the New Democracy's prosperous policy in relation to that of the previous government, on the occasion of the current ratification of last December's legislative act. Some talk about a social state level, while the Mitsotakis Government increased the social dividend that New Democracy voted for in 2019 by 40m euros, bringing it up to 215m euros. And while massive tax reliefs had already been made by our Government, which only for the 2019 ENVY, relieved six million three hundred thousand Greeks, the absurd logic of SYRIZA with the numbers, unfortunately, has no end, although the amount we returned to society in 2019 reached 790 million. Only for the social dividend, the beneficiaries of 2019 exceeded one million people. Only anyone who knows no multiplication and division continues to claim that the social dividend is only two hundred and fifty thousand. Only anyone who is completely ignorant politics can say that the EUR 2 000 allowance for each new child, which we recently voted on, will supposedly not cover all births in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, a good-faithed man could say this. Preferential policy is not just benefits and tax exemptions. It is also the funding of pre-innovative institutions, homes, orphanages, chronic disease therapies, deaf, blind, etc. It is the staffing of all these structures with specialized scientific and auxiliary staff. It is to get access to such institutions all those in need. It is the creation of mobile social support units. It's the protection of women and children from family violence. It is the establishment of a national care mechanism for unaccompanied children, which was launched in the government of Mitsotakis. So what did the Mitsotakis Government receive in addition to the privileged benefits? He received the sub-financing of the state network of social solidarity, as SYRIZA chose public money to go to NGOs. This is what you have called management of European funds and not just, instead of the legally competent public services. Thus, the appropriate State Secretary, Ms. Michailidou, recently came to reinstate the National Centre for Social Solidarity in the field of child protection. The Minister for Migration, Mr Mitarakis, was forced to take a class in the action of the NGOs, to ask for it, to be written by the administrations and their members operating in our country in a single register, including the so-called 'Mickey Maus', as they say on the islands, the paid associates of NGOs who have been acting until recently as a state in a state. In short, the New Democracy is trying to reopen the welfare state, not just as a machine that will cut money, but as a coordinate state that assumes constitutional responsibilities towards the weakest, all, all Greek and foreign, those who need protection and assistance from our country. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the New Democracy are not targeting either the bulb or the disappearance of the state from the welfare sector. After all, we were also the ones who, in the recent constitutional revision, have introduced the minimum guaranteed income as a compulsory state provision to all who need it. On the other hand, however, we never lied about the allegedly third and fourteenth pensions. We never promised any allowances like you, when you disappeared the CSCE. We didn't have an election or a post-election. You will not find in the Ministry of Labour, such as in previous times, any special secretariats that have only done to provide for the comfort of the people who have sent them, bureaucratic structures that have been lost in their non-existence, such as the Special Secretariat for the Solidarity Economy or the one for the integration of the Roma. Perhaps, of course, the latter did some work, judging by constantly moving groups of our fellow citizens who were able to join your election gatherings. Another political fraud of the SYRIZA was the burden of EOPY, an insurance fund in fact, with costs which had nothing to do with social security. Thus, instead of the Ministry of Labour to bear the cost for children and infants hosted, for example, at the "MATERA" Infant Center, the Ministry of Labour covered the lack of a grant with funding from the EEA, i.e. it provided money from the worker's insurance contributions. So with the money of private individuals and not the state, SYRIZA did and the establishment of hospitals in the establishment of chronicly suffering institutions and psychiatric clinics, as well as with the imposition of special education facilities. Minister, I would like to close up with the amendment by the Ministry of Finance to reduce VAT on cancer medicines. It is an initiative of the Government following the low-retirement exemption from participation in medicines and a reduction in prices in a number of widely consumed drugs for 2020. This is another measure of real welfare for the weaker fellow citizens and I would say - speaking as a doctor - that this is a genuine and substantial intervention in favour of many vulnerable patients, such as cancer patients. The same applies to the tax-free provision of government subsidies to enterprises affected by natural disasters. We cannot, as a state, give financial aid to a damaged company to 'take it' from the other pocket. It would be just a mock. Finally, with regard to the forecasts of the same port amendment, I would like to point out the obvious benefits that will arise for port organisations, such as my own country, Volos, which have been privatised and can best be exploited. It is important that the process of concessions and concessions is quick and economically effective. And regardless of whether they will remain under state control privatized, workers will not be fired. It concerns not only the development of my constituency, which I have the honour of representing, but the development of the entire Greek region, which is awaiting rapid implementation of commitments from the New Democracy. On this course we remain firmly committed to a single objective, to support the entire Greek society, but above all to those who need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Bakadima has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u352	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we have a Legislative Content Act imported by the Ministry of Finance, to increase the amount of social dividend for 2019, to extend the extrajudicial mechanism to regulate debt and to extend the deadline for the abolition of mortgages and real estate offices. Unfortunately - and we have heard this from a number of colleagues here today in this Chamber - the government is once again choosing the fast track legislative choice of the Legislative Area Act, depriving citizens and Members of Parliament of the opportunity to take part in a deeper debate. For example, we did not have a consultation or sufficient debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs, a debate that we believe would have a lot to do. Furthermore, the criminality and the overcoming of the principles of good legislature from the principle of taking office on the part of the New Democracy continues. It was a principle of evangelizing and fully embraced by the governing party, which in practice breaks down, as we also have positive and negative provisions in this PPP that are put together in a proposed piece of legislation. Such a practice shows, in addition to poor preparation and lack of expertise and the failure to control the final results, that is to say, that the same draft law will be passed. Let us now move on to a few points, which I would like to dwell on. There is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that the social dividend is made up of characteristics that match a social state, although the Greek state is now at a dislocation and the entire project is characterised by strong fragmentation and reduced efficiency. First of all, the intensity of bureaucracy, the lack of information and all the insufficient predictions for many social groups, such as the single parent families, leave many of our fellow humans apart from those who receive the dividend. However, despite the fact that the number of our fellow citizens who will eventually take it up, and since the relief of people who need it itself is positive, we cannot overlook the fact that no government - neither the previous nor the current one - has any intention to change the status quo. It has no desire to improve the situation, which would change everyone's lives as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately there does not seem to be the political will necessary to overturn all those policies of violent austerity, which continue to poverty and desertify our country, leading thousands of young people abroad, but also those who choose to stay in Greece to work periodically, with poor wages, even without insurance, just to get little more money. At the same time, we have workers in the public and private sectors, but also pensioners and free professionals who see how the rulings want to be zealously zealous to be the good children of the troika and institutions, bend their heads and they are not hesitant to crush and cut insurance, wages and labour rights only to collect a friendly back blow and a smile by the participating ministers in the Eurogroup and the Euro Working Group. We see fellow citizens who need the social dividend, not to do shopping and markets, but to meet their daily basic bio-responsibility, and it is time to think that we are all here as representatives of our fellow citizens and not to compete for who will be the best student in Brussels and who will finally win the credit. That is why we should always act in the light of the common good. Yes, giving money to people who need it is positive, but not as positive as it would be if moves were made and steps were taken to overthrow policies that lead people to need a dividend. Ladies and gentlemen, we must do all we can to bring the smile back to the faces of our fellowmen and not to the bureaucrats of the euro area. We have to fight to get our children back. We must strive to avoid seeing people of squirrel who are struggling to get them out of line with wages - allowances and all their hard acquired rights to be violated without end. I now come to the amendments, because this bad practice on the part of the government is continuing. We have a bill and eight or nine amendments, less or more relevant at a time. From today, therefore, I would like to dwell on the Scaramaga shipyards and the 'Larco' one. According to the proposed amendment to Scaramaga, ‘the State will, for 20 years, grant the exclusive right to use on board the zone or parts of the cavalry in front of the shipyard premises, to any natural or legal person operating a shipyard operation or other supporting activity for the purpose of access to the sea’. Neither too little nor too much, that is, we are giving private companies the exclusive use of hayals without, we believe, a clear provision for how the sections of hayalus will be used, but also for the marine space to be provided. And we believe that it creates a bad precedent on which other businesses could stand by asking for access to the sea to serve their own interests in the future. How can it be ensured that, with such a legalisation, we do not actually open the door to Hail, opening the way to privatization of the sea and the sanctuary of our country, a country with an endless kilometre of coastline? We fear that there is no guarantee on this, and it is extremely likely that our seas will be given to individuals later, because they should have access to them in order to serve and protect their own interests. The government, in order to go to the next amendment, is more contemptuous in Parliament than in itself brings an amendment to the sale of LARCO. In the previous period, Minister Hatzidakis held an entire communication campaign to convince the public and citizens of how injurious and without a future the LARCO is, saying that he will, in essence, do us a favor for anyone who takes it. The main argument was that the financial chaos of the company's debts, as well as the great energy cost, makes it work with a negative economic balance. But if the Minister tries to convince us that this is a rational reform effort, the truth is that we are seeing another story of monumental madness in front of us. Why am I saying that? As can easily be seen, the social cost of dismissal and of uncertainty, which seems to be reserved for thousands of workers and not even entered into the balance of ministerial decisions, is, on the contrary, overcome by an abstraction - let me - the investor is using much of the workforce, whatever that means. The Minister seems to be forgetting or not that he is not a seller, but a minister with responsibility for the social group and especially for the population of Central Greece. If we now go to the essence of the argument, the irony becomes even more obvious and it becomes clear how lame the arguments are. First of all, the economic chaos invoked by the administrations appointed on the basis of party criteria by the governments over the past few years. The European Union's fined state aid is, in essence, an increase in the share capital of HIDE, the body that was set up by a Memorandum of Understanding of the leadership of the European Union and the Greek Governments. They, in other words, who have caused the damage, claim to have a solution to the problem they have created. Even if one goes beyond all the above, one cannot overlook the fact that a product with a market value, such as nickel, has great price fluctuations and in order to draw a final conclusion, a definitive conclusion on the viability or not of the company, must take into account statistics and data for more than one year and not selectively of the last years, as the Ministry does. First of all, the model of haircuts you propose will give to any investor who has big fortunes, mines, ports, a factory, loading practically into the state, i.e. the Greek people, only debts. From that point on, the private investor may, in all likelihood, use this net property for direct stock exchange gains, without any disposal of a productive investment. Then he can leave her in a worse condition than he found her. This model is that it has already been tested several times by neoliberal capitalism and it is a great opportunity. For who? For speculators at the expense of productive enterprises. At best, which is the most unlikely in this case, a version, if it is based on productive activity by the private individuals to modernise LARCO, will not do so with own funds, but will make use of European funding, eventually exporting profits from the country. However, the question that arises is why the state refuses to do so, which would serve the benefit of society as a whole. If the New Democracy refuses to think and act as a government, as it should, and prefers to act as a board of directors and the Prime Minister as an CEO of a company, we as a Mer25 must show the truth. We need to highlight the existing solutions and prospects of industry in our country, which can be economically viable and environmentally responsible and socially responsible, and to stand alongside society and the workers at the same time. We refuse to consent and become accomplices in the sale of our sea and industry. We refuse to agree with the poorness of workers, wherever they are working, to private enterprises which are called upon to return their Christmas and Easter gifts to employers as soon as they get them or to LARCO, which, with today's amendment, workers will see their salaries cut by 25%. Unfortunately, we are very afraid that, shortly, our fellow citizens who will be looking forward to receiving the social dividend will increasingly increase, thanks to the LARCO legislative initiatives, and not just the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, my colleague. Now Mr. Lappas has the floor from SYRIZA and Mr. Economou from New Democracy will then be prepared. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u354	Thank you, Madam President. Besides, I'm inspiring unorthodoxly! Before I enter the Ministry of Justice's amendment, because only for her I will speak, I will tell you something. Today, in terms of good legislature - Mr Maraveyas spoke proudly of the way in which the government legislates and other measures - take the ports last day, Minister, because today you are actually doing a battle, since the amendments as a type of battle are coming to an act of legislation. There have been numerous amendments. This is the result of good legislature and must be pointed out! So let's go to the amendment. Some time ago, in November, when the criminal codes were intervening, the government had taken an amendment, saying what? That all assets bound by a decision of the courts, public prosecutors and judges are released, should eighteen months elapsed as a time of commitment. And then we told the government that this does not only show that it violates the independence of justice in the context of the separation of powers, but is violating Union law and international conventions, because it is forbidden to release crime-free products. And the Ministry of Justice did so with a simple amendment, and so far we wanted at least a final decision. Minister, you are an institution and you understand that. Releasering proceeds of crime, without a court or judge, is the first time that it is being done in all the countries of the Council of Europe and we are today - they show us - like black sheep. You will see that we will be controlled by both the European Commission and the FATF and by GRECO and the competent bodies that investigate countries' level of crime and the OECD and the UN. I say this because the government in the field of justice has surprised us with ostensibly, with ambiguity, with retreats, with returns to what the anti-population parties have told them. Let's remind you of a few things. The next day you carried the penitentiary policy from the Ministry of Justice, which is its natural site, to the Ministry of Civil Protection, and you said that prisoners' penitentiary is only a matter of security and not a matter of justice. Then, of course, we have debated this and no one disputes it, nor a professor nor a law-enforcement officer, that is to say, that we all know that the system of awarding criminal justice has three pillars, the essential criminal law - the Criminal Code, that is, the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is the procedure and the creation of penalties, that is, the penitentiary policy. And what are you doing? You give a hammer and cut off the third basic pillar and tell him he'll go to the Civilian Ministry. Thus, today, the entire structure of the system of justice is slowly falling apart. And considering what you're doing, you come to the snug, secretly and slowly and you want to return part of what you've carried to the Ministry of Citizen Protection. You have returned to some of the anti-crime policy, such as the commission of minors, such as the custody of minors and forensic services. Slowly - you will be forced to return the entire part of the penitentiary policy, because it is not tolerated, not by the Greek Constitution, by Greek laws and by Greek culture, but by European law culture. You'll do it soon. You also make extensive interventions as government in criminal codes. What did you say? That they need to improve. When? Before they even start their implementation time. You realized he'd have pathogens in the future, and you did it. Anyway, you're a government and you did it. At the same time, however, you have brought two down-to-date provisions and said that, for the infidelity of bank managers, the bank must sue itself, insulting us, to start a criminal procedure, so that today there is absolutely no incrimination by the banks against its officials. As is, like, the autoimmune illnesses in medicine, you think the bank will sue itself for violating the law of its bank officials. These are the so-called autonomous offences. Anyway. And the worst - which is also the amendment - what was it? You came with a disguised provision and said that for asset justice commitments as a result of crimes, forgery, fraud, trafficking, arms trade, women's trade, if the eighteenth month has elapsed, they are immediately released. What was it? The sum was 1.3 billion. I will tell you immediately every year what we, justice from 2015 to today and what you are decommissioning today. You release this 1.3 billion and you do so with a simple amendment, Minister, I do not know if the Ministers for Justice are listening - when the freezing of these assets is done with a judicial judgement. You intervene in cold blood in Greek justice and say "We do not care what you decide, we release all assets that you have committed by decision of the public prosecutors or judges or tribunals". Now listen to something, at least the lawyers in here. Do you think that in cases of multiple such felony acts, such as traficking, arms trade, women's trade, forgery of felony, can you have a judicial decision within eighteen months of the date of the own-initiative prosecution by the prosecutor? In the Greek jurisprudence system, when we want ten, twelve and fifteen years, to have a final crisis or five years for a primary crisis? You're doing this for specific interests. Already, it has come out in the light of publicity who have taken first to take advantage of your amendment, which is a shameful amendment for the country, which operators, who are often controlled by the criminal courts, have run immediately to take the property seized by decision of the public prosecutors. Why did you do it? Give me an answer. You're doing it just to serve those who gave you the head starter to step on it and understand the governmental thugs. That's it. There's no other explanation. And there's no, you know why? Because today there is no European or international body that has not put the country under surveillance for this provision, which you can release seized proceeds of crime, not with a judicial judgement. I told the ministers, let not a final decision, but not even a final decision of a court, in order to justify why they have been committed, what offences, and have a similar court release judgment? The government will come, the executive will point to justice that you can go that far, you can't go. That's what you're doing. And this is a shameful one, it violates both Greek lawful culture and the European institutions. You will see that the control of the European institutions, GRECO, FATF and the international institutions will be suffocated and soon the country will collapse in the indicators of crime. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall only close with one phrase, Mr President, for the House to know. I'm telling you in seconds about the 1.3 billion I said how it turns out. In 2014 the prosecutors committed 161 million. In 2015, they committed 255 million to four hundred twenty-two public prosecutors. In 2016 they committed 301 million, in 2017 312 million and so for 2018. This is the 1.3 billion, crime products, which you today in your amendment do nothing but give a double deadline for the new Transparency Authority, instead of three months, to take the case to the board and say 'turn back the property'. You don't actually interfere. The substance remains, it is suppressed, and soon the country will pay the marble, but the marble cannot pay it, because it is yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u355	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u356	Mr. Comrade, you weren't here when I made a specific position. You said that soon the country would pay the marble, because FATF and all these agencies would come...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u357	I said it, and then, not now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u358	You've done it now. I just gave some evidence. As you were not, I received a message from the FATF yesterday, in which it welcomes what the Greek Government is doing. I got it on 17.53'06' yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u359	What date are you referring to? For June 2019, he says, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u360	I am referring to 11 February 2020 for all that is happening. In fact, it also has communication from Greek journalists with them in order to provide publications, with names.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u361	I know where he's talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u362	So don't prejudge something when we have certain evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u363	It's not about what I'm telling you, Minister. I know where he's talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u364	In any case, it refers to speeding up the administration of justice, which leads in no way to massive decisions on asset freezing. On the occasion of speaking, because the Parliamentary Representative of Merra25 spoke to where the illegal State aid is due and spoke about the GOI, that it is essentially against the GOI, to inform the House that it was for six measures, with the recovery of debts of LARCO by the Greek State - there is no GNI - the granting of a State guarantee by the Greek State to cover a loan from the Agricultural Bank of Greece to LARCO in the year 2008 - there was no GNI - participation by the Greek State in increasing the share capital in the year 2009 - there was no guarantee by the Greek State to cover a guarantee letter from the National Bank of Greece to LARCO in 2010, not collecting a tax fine in 2010 and granting State guarantees from the Greek State to cover two loans from the Agricultural Bank of Greece to LARCO in the year 2011. The Greek State, therefore, had come back at that time and in order to face accumulated problems of the past "LARCO" And it comes today and for the first time, the Greek taxpayer gives 35m euros to rescue LARCO, but I have not heard any of the opposition mentioning 35m.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u365	Thank you, Minister. Mr Economou from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to speak about the amendment concerning LARCO, not only because it is a very important Greek industry with invested human and productive capital, with a leading role in the development of the wider region, but also because it is the majority of the workers who live under conditions of testing for many years and in anguish during the present hours and days, to know and know them personally, Mr Minister, that we are aware of the dignity with which they live with their families, the soul they place in LARCO, the fact that they are part of their identity, the family and traditional ties that connect them to the company and the heavy burden they have paid for all these years in the company. That is why we are obliged by the Step of the National Representation to speak truths at this decisive moment about the company. Really first. For the situation in LARCO today, there are time-consuming responsibilities for the administrations and governments who appointed them, all governments and the last government, which if I am not mistaken, added to the negative economic situation of LARCO about EUR 150 million. These responsibilities, to be honest and honest, must at some point be self-criticised and discussed and attributed. We owe it to the workers. We owe it to this state of transformation of the company now. What do they have as their common denominator? They have the negative performance, the negative footprint of the state-of-the-art operating model of the ‘LARCO’. Unsuccessful movements by administrations, partitioning by all administrations, by all governments that managed the fate of the country and negative results, which either because of failure or other actions, brought the company to the state it is currently. It is our duty and obligation not only to point it out, but to open up a great debate on this story and to give things where they have to be named. Really second. During the whole of the previous period and today in the debate here in the view of Representation there are two things that dominate. On the one hand, hypocrisy prevails, on the other hand, dogmatism, let me say more romantic, vigilantism. There is a Marxist concept which says that the state should pay 500 million, 600 million, 700 million, a billion, a 1.5 billion, and continue to make the businessman in mineral metals, that the state should continue to govern this company in state terms, which is outside every framework in the modern economy, which is not like him in the Western world, in the developed world, which refuses to say whether there are such models, whether there are models, wages and conditions for workers and who are outside all reasonable discussion of a sustainable solution for industry and its future. What was heard by the JRC - if I understood correctly from Mera25 in the position of Parliament's representative earlier - is something that is out of the question, it is off the way, out of discussion. There are no main coordinates and key fixed searches for a solution. From there on, the hypocrisy of the rest of the counterpopulation. Are you in favour of privatization or not of 'LARCO'? Clear words. Are you in favour of finding solutions to deal with the continuing catastrophe or letting things fall down and the 150 million debts that you accumulated last five years to add, for as long as the company could be open, and some other tens of millions? Are you in favour of finding a solution that will create a firm sustainable with jobs, with the production and export of nickel for the region, for the country, for the workers or not? Are you really saying now that this 'Larco' with facilities like, with the investment deficit that exists over the past few years, can also enter other sectors relating to ferro-chromium or cobalt? With what investments? With what machines? Who's gonna put that money in the company today? I don't know which of you were at the last general meeting. He was telling the CEO they didn't have to pay spare parts. It is good, then, to try to make opposition, but when we are not on a line of absolutely Marxist, like the one I baptize it as someone who chases windmills in the modern world, we should not tell the world and the workers things that have nothing to do with reality. The workers are fighting. And right, they fight. Because they are the last ones, if they are responsible - some of them, not all of course - but the least of the company's current situation. In fact, thirdly, the government's amendment puts things in an orbit. First of all, the Greek taxpayer puts his hand in the pocket and gives 35m euros to keep Larco from stopping on 17 February, if I am not mistaken, its operation. You have accumulated 150 million debts over the last five years, 35 million euros, we put from the state budget - the Greek taxpayer - to take the breath of life that LARCO must have, in order to survive. Secondly, it is predicted that the workers will also put their backs on that story. Unfortunately, it's no different. My view is - and there is this margin in the amendment - that the people who take 700, 800, 900 and 1,000 euros do not have any wage reductions or at all the minimum. 25% on average, I think, makes this margin less than 25% reduction in high-wage workers, because it is no different, because it is outside the company's operating logic and the vast majority, over eight hundred, who are under 1,000 euros, are not to have any serious or no wage reductions. It is our responsibility - and through the amendment it seems very clearly, I would say - that the arbitration procedures and procedures that will discourage anyone who wants to block this process from reaching its end should be progressed quickly. And the end of this process can be no more than the investment of people of work who will actually come to operate the company and not speculate. To close with the truths, I come and tell you that this is our main purpose, our basic exhortation, our basic concern. The amendment is the first step. Our Government throughout this period of operation in liquidation should look for and find ways to absorb the vast majority of workers. Obviously, we are interested in the human factor, obviously and understand the concern of the workers and the government and the state in a company that will not collapse, which will take care and find ways to save the company's human capital, continue to have a job, to have a share of it - we know some of us better than anyone else in this Chamber, how valuable this share is for the families and the local society of people there - and, above all, to ensure a serious investment interest in a sustainable industry that operates on free market terms and is a model of development for the wider region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u367	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, twenty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd High School of Ioannina (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Katrinis has the floor from the Change Movement for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u368	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the ratification of a legislative act, a bill which unfortunately in its own body and as a whole is less than 50% of the amendments, which have been tabled in the last few days, hours - not minutes - and which show this legislative hand of the government. But I won't stay on that, Minister. I think our rapporteur has commented in detail. I will start from the government's celebratory last night with the 'hard rock' in relation to the achievements of the seven months, even vaguely beginning with the reduction of the HISA. He says the Prime Minister "we cut the ENPY by 22%". It is the first achievement, which is indeed the first one in the spot. But the Prime Minister has not said so well, you know that, for the three thousand and fifty-four regions that are part of the system of determining objective values with obvious development of their evacuation. Thus, on the one hand, the government reduces HPAI, on the other, it increases the objective values, so that the hand enters very deeply into the pocket of the Greek taxpayer. You didn't say that at the spot. As you also said at the spot, you did not say in the election, to say that you were doing so post-elections, what you will do with the issue of the first residence, Minister. I did not see you saying: 'We have said so in an election, we have done so in a post-election. Sincerely, we have heard only the Minister of Development say that auctions must be carried out, because otherwise we will have damage to the banks and the economy. That was not said in an election. You only said it post-election. And since we are discussing this act for the four-month extension of the extrajudicial mechanism, I should like to remind colleagues that Law 3869/2010, which provided real protection for weak borrowers, has been "expressed" throughout the years of SYRIZA governance, with the culmination of reaching Law 4605/2019, which was advertised as the successor of Law 3869 which will provide protection for the first residence. In fact, Mr. Georgiadis on September 1st by public call, after improving the infamous platform, called on borrowers to enter the platform to save their homes now. It was, of course, Mr. Georgiadis' announcement that the Greek was going to enter the bulldozers at the end of December. Last Thursday he told us that he is not concerned about an appeal against the tender, because he is sure that justice will take a stand against it. Of course, the Prosecutor's Appeals Review Authority disproved him. Once again, Mr. Georgiadis was disproved. I fear that the investment in Greek, unfortunately, will be delayed. It will be more advertised by the Minister than it will have been implemented. So at the end of November, we shall go to Law 4605. The government brings law, makes improvements, says that other beneficiaries will be included, the legislative act comes at the end of December and gives four months of extension to the process and the protection of the first residence. So let's see what the reality is today, based on the platform elements as published by the Private Debt Management Secretariat: They have tried to get on the platform sixty - five thousand three hundred ninety - three. They have begun the process, consenting to the lifting of tax and bank confidentiality, forty - three thousand three hundred ninety - eight. About twenty-two thousand didn't do it. In fact, the government has understood that these are the strategic poor payers who did not enter and who, as a percentage, are close to what the Governor of the Bank of Greece told us last Tuesday: about 20% of the debtors are considered strategic poor payers. And we have now come to have three hundred and fifteen cases of arrangements accepted by debtors, 0.72%. Last week was 0.66%. According to your estimates, we will end up being close to the two thousand cases, i.e. 5% of all those who entered the platform and have consented to the lifting of confidentiality. So I am going to read you a case which has come to my attention, and I would like you to tell me whether you or Mr. Georgiades, who speaks with such ease for the Batteries and Strategic Policies, believe that he is part of this category: a person who in 2012 entered Law 3869 with a monthly dose of EUR 354 at the time of the agreement, on the path of disability, is now receiving a disability pension of EUR 379 and his wife, who is a school wheelchair and who is paid eight out of 12 months a year, takes EUR 170 a month. The total monthly income of this family is EUR 550. Man entered the platform to request an extension of the regulation time, gave his approval for the lifting of bank and tax confidentiality and, of course, the platform throws him out, because he does not fulfil the criteria because of a final judicial decision. So, can this man with a EUR 350 dose and EUR 550 income with two minor children be all right in this arrangement? Is this a case, Minister, a strategic malpractice thrown out of the platform and on 1 May will he likely see his home auctioning? For every such case that comes to my attention, I, Minister, will put a question to Mr Georgiadis and will wait in writing for him to answer to me why he is not on the platform and why his home will be at risk by auctioning on 1 May. Because we are talking about a platform and a law that is unsuccessful, with very low income criteria, of course with a very long delay time by the banks when the banks respond. And, of course, the most important thing is that we have a proposal tabled by the bank alone, there is no third party to assess it if it is viable, if it is based on the code of conduct, if it is justified from there on 1 May, and you can understand that there is no protection measure at all. Of course it sounds like you're thinking of bringing the 1023 directive on restructuring and insolvency. I do not know whether it will have three months or twelve months and I do not know whether it will provide effective protection. The EBRD in the debate we were having for the first time announces fifty thousand auctions for the current year. The representatives of the management companies are here. We asked them what percentage the loans buy, they didn't answer. We asked them what percentage of the loans they buy eventually regulate, they did not respond, and what a haircut from the original requirement they offer to borrowers. They didn't answer that either. And if you think that this is just a matter that resurrects the Change Movement, the Opposition, the New Democracy MP from my constituency, Mr Javaras, the day before yesterday tabled a question by saying and basically supporting the proposal that we have also made on the preferential right of borrowers before the loans to the funds end up being able to negotiate with the banks. Here, therefore, in a very difficult landscape that is shaped and in which even the Hercules project has been put in place, because guarantees are being demanded from the 24 billion pillow and time is lost, so neither the banks are exempted from the process of regulating red loans, we, Minister, are concerned that you have no plan for the first residence of the truly weak borrowers, such as the case before you, rather than the strategies, such as the government and the MPs in recent days want to pass on to the public. We call on you here and now to evaluate both this platform and the law that has failed and to bring in a bill and a framework that will truly protect the weak borrowers and their right to first residence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u369	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Tsipras from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes and immediately thereafter Mrs Papanatsiou will close the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Economou spoke of the failed state model. Because we live in the same planet and in the same world economy, mostly capitalist, to come to an understanding of some elementary things. The state-owned company is the ‘FRAPORT’, a highly successful company. We privatized our airports to a state-owned company. It was a private company, and to a large extent it is still, and the "DEUTSCHE TELEKOM", a state in the Greek market, and a state in Europe as a whole. Transnational company is ‘AIRBUS’, one of the two major colossal companies worldwide in the civil aircraft. And if I kept reading you, I could exhaust my entire speech and I'd still need five, six minutes for the big only companies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u371	For the minerals?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u372	I don't understand you? The minerals? And in the minerals, but don't go on like this. Generally speaking of a state model that failed, I think it is unstable and confirmed by nothing. If you want to talk about the Greek state model, to come to an agreement, but the Greek state model is an extremely pathogenous model, it is all yours, it is the old two-partyism of the New Democracy and PASOK. There is no state company, a state company in the years of post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-municipality, and, if it was of general interest, to serve the common good. There wasn't an administration. The top example is "Olympic". You know very well that capitals or cities in our region have become transit centres, such as Istanbul, Dubai, Abbu Dhabi, Doha, and if we had a national air carrier, it could also be a centre. We had the opportunity. But have you made the "Olympian" for decades, with an incredible mismanagement and a terrible client regime, where you said what? Because that is what you are doing today in LARCO. "We cannot do anything else, we constantly eat fines, and the only way is to privatize as – unconditionally and after the state has loaded its deficits and debts "Olympic", as it has done. While we had a great need for a national air carrier, what did we achieve? To replace a state monopoly by a private monopoly, with high prices and limited scope compared to what was "Olympic". Approximately the same model you make in LARCO today. Unconditional privatization or closure. This is the blackmail you are addressing the workers and you want to convince the Greek society. Mr Stavros, and in total your resignation should be a little more modest, especially for 'LARCO'. The old PASOK - New Democracy - a whole range of responsibilities, but especially the New Democracy, and especially Mr Stakoras - should be a little more modest. Mr Stavoura, you are not honoured to be told what was said before Mr Sarakiotis, that your ears should not be sweating and that you have nothing to say but what the SYRIZA's position is. I'll tell you what SYRIZA's position is and what should be done. Before that, however, you should respond to some basic things. The company could have more than 400 million profits on your day and did not have them with your devastating policies and did not exercise them because you fell out on estimates. You have exercised them, because it was precisely an ongoing mismanagement and a client regime, in which you personally were involved and the whole region knows it. I'll reread them to you after he doesn't sweat your ears: Mr Skrekas - you all know him - President of the LARCO Board. In 2008 he had a reward of 7,000, which he uploaded to 9,000. A month later he hires his bride, that is, Constantine Screka's wife, Mrs. Irene Karaguni - Screka. Mrs Screka was immediately recruited as a sub-administrator, taking better wages than diplomat engineers. Mr. Skrekas, in 2008, hires his accomplice, Ms. Karagkounis - Skrekas, as security director with an salary of 2,700. For the majority of workers, wages are not the ones mentioned here, they are normal wages for workers. At the same time, the daughter of Deputy Tourism Mr. Liascu, MP Evia, is hired to write the story of LARCO, which was never written. On your day, Mr. Stakoura, in 2013-2014. as Deputy Minister of Finance, a hundred and thirty-two employees in "Larko" are being promoted and made two hundred and fifty-two recruitments. In here especially for LARCO, a little more modest! Especially for "LARCO"! You brought her to the lip of destruction. We in the past four and a half years - when a company is negative cannot suddenly turn into a positive company, it has continued to be negative - but we have ensured some elementary things: We proceeded with an agreement with PPC so that the weight for LARCO would be slightly lower and we would give her a breath. We have kept her alive for four and a half years, even though we have inherited from you, from your own mistakes, a fine of 135 million, now 160-170 million, and we have been looking for solutions that would actually make her sustainable. I come to the question of what needs to be done. I have already heard Mr Economou exposing LARCO's goods, that it is a very important business, with a significant impact on GDP, exports, the kind of strategic product that is for the European Union. If that is the case - and I will be entirely in agreement with you - we must do everything we can to keep Larco alive together with her employees. Along with her employees! Such a plan does not exist. You put it in a special regime, without being absolutely committed to anything. I say that any design for which you need to commit, firstly, to not just running the "LARCO" for the transition, but to keep the company open for at least the next decade and be this condition for any private investor who appears.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u373	Let me finish, Mr. Stakoura. Secondly, make a commitment here that all jobs will be maintained and not blackmail with the closure of 'LARCO'. Thirdly, there should remain public control, even in the ELPE model, in LARCO, not to leave the public. There are ways. For example, the debt to PPC may well be relocated, since, of course, you do not privatise PPC. If I may say that you cannot give up on us, who are opposition, what is in our plan for LARCO, when you are government today do not say what your plan is for a number of businesses that are publicly controlled by PPC, by ELEPO, by HELP and by other companies. Why don't you tell us what you're gonna do? Are we going to tell you where we are opposition to how exactly the issue of 'LARCO' will be solved and you are not telling us about the most important Greek companies? Once, a certain placement. Mr. Hatzidakis, until yet two months ago he told us about PPC that there was no one to buy it. That is his answer to the question. I continue for 'LARCO'. A commitment to anyone for investment in both the port and the factory and for the environment - but not just - reasons. Like I said, before the public's involvement. Most importantly, however, it is a commitment that the company will remain alive for at least a decade. Last and most important. Since they did not enter the single payroll in 2011, as they should normally enter, as the customer state continued, any change should be the result of collective bargaining, a new collective agreement and not of the model ‘solvent mass and re-intake on market terms’ as Mr Hatzidakis says. This is the plan, and, unfortunately, it is this plan that you do not commit to it, because you have brought it to such a point of all the fine we have eaten from the European Union and we are at risk today. What I'm telling you is possible. Because we have also ruled, this possibility exists, as long as anyone wants it. You don't want it. All you want is to blackmail that if they do not accept unconditional privatisation and therefore mass dismissal, the company will close. That's what you're doing. That's a great trick. You have implemented it with the "Olympic" and you have been applying it for the second time today with the "LARCO". One answer, please, Mr Stakoura, as far as you are concerned. One answer. It cannot sweat your own self-determination on this issue, on the endless client state of New Democracy in the region and on your own participation. One answer for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u374	Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u375	Mr. Tsipras, I'm glad. You know LARCO very well. Let us talk in there, and we've been in there many times, and we know the workers. I entered the general meeting with your colleague, who was excellent in his position. So, please, less precarious. Secondly, until 7 July you ruled. What's the plan you made by July 7th? Leave today, you're opposition. Until 7 July, what was your plan? There isn't. I answered you, but you were gone. You just came here to make a personal attack. You were gone. Thirteen questions I asked Mr Tsakalotos, and at thirteen times he said 'we are planning', 'we are planning', 'we are planning'. We've seen the results. Third point. Eventually, public character or not? Because until last year you were talking about publicity in LARCO. That was your design, supposedly. Now you're talking private. And how will the private person enter, if any of the illegal state aid and the fine exist? ‘Does the company not break’ as Mr Tsakalotou’s letter of April 2019? A new strategy? As far as staff are concerned, you know, there are also serious colleagues in Civicism. So I will not answer you for myself. You are answered by Mr. Stathakis 28 July 2017 here in the House, who says attributes: "You did not practice a rhysphetological policy in LARCO". Mr. Stathakis knows better than you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u376	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Papanatsiou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u377	I want the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u378	Mr. Comrade, you had the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u379	The latter is inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u380	Listen to me, please. You can find them later with the Minister. I gave you ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u381	Madam President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u382	Tell Mrs. Papanatsiu to tell him from the Step. I'll give Mrs. Papanatsiou more time too. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, please. Come on, Mrs. Papanaceu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy can say that it is absolutely consistent with its ideological achievements. He likes to say 'we have said so, we have done so'. But let us see, ladies and gentlemen, what you have not said, what you have done up to now and how this affects the social majority, because these interventions are technically not projected. The political disdain that you displayed in every step of your society, by the labour rights scrollers you promised beforehand, until the demolition of the social achievements of the previous government and the alalum in refugee. You have given 500 million less to the social dividend, because you have chosen to use the financial space that we have given you to tax exemptions only six thousand companies or 2.5% of all businesses and reductions in very large properties. These are your priorities, not a million and a half citizens. The reduced allocation of the social dividend you have chosen has also led to a fall in market turnover. You know, the U.S. Institute of Trade and Services published a survey on January 9th that says it moved at lower levels than last year, the Christmas fair for half-enterprises. This is confirmed by several trade associations in the country. At the same time, with the reduction in the amount of social dividends, you have also made other reductions and abolitions. You remove the thirteenth pension, a permanent measure of the SYRIZA government. Reduce the preferential allowances for HEIs, family allowances and rent allowance. In employment, the results of December are discouraged. There was a reduction in private sector employment. That is what you said - or did not say - and you did, ladies and gentlemen. So, you realize growth. Zero social state, unprotected social majority, main residence auction, health sales, education, employment insecurity. I now come to the amendments, which were quite a few. In fact, everything is done in a very short time. We have to vote on them one day, and the next day we have to vote on them. I come to the ADI amendment, which creates a specialized system of grading and service development for ADI by way of derogation from the Civil Service Code. The direction, both in the contours and in the graduation, is negative in substance. The linking the rating to the staff member's position will create multi-speed workers, while the layout leaves all the details of the decision of the Commander of the AACC. The same provision was requested by the institutions and by the AACC and by us and we did not accept it for the reasons I mentioned. What is the point of this amendment, Mr Ministers? With what reason do you distinguish ADP officials - tax, customs - from other civil servants? We shall now proceed to the amendment on 'LARCO'. LARCO is a time-consuming scandal involving the wrong business options and rousphetological recruitments with astronomical wages that took place between 2005 and 2009, than I heard before. For us, three are the issues that need at least to be committed for a decade. Firstly, the company must remain operational, because it is important for both the local and the national economy, it contributes significantly to GDP and has an export activity. Secondly, jobs must be guaranteed and, of course, by a collective agreement. Thirdly, public control of the company must be ensured. Choosing every time, or remember...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u384	You say public control?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u385	...or forget you're government. You are tabling an amendment to reorganise the LARCO, as you say. What are the terms? What's your plan for the thousands of workers in the business? Will they remain in their jobs or will they be faced with sudden situations? You are talking about a reduction in wage costs. How will that be? Make it clear at last. Does your plan weigh social needs or respond to the logic of unconditional investment without any social benefit? Leave the comms to the side. You have a history of the place. We all have memory.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u386	Public or private after all?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u387	I come to the amendment to the port agency amendment. With this amendment you are paving the way for many and at the same time retreating our ten important ports. In fact, you allow a private person to exploit all the activities of the port. Port agencies will be deprived of all their revenues from individual activities and lead to a dead end. Experienced investors who want to operate in a specific area - one example is loads - are discouraged because they do not want to take over all the activities of the port. At the same time, you are also abolishing the 5% levy on the annual gross receipts of the decommissioner and in favour of the port agencies. In other words, as a maximum allowable income, you are establishing a limit value for the survival of the agencies. Your aim is to share such things as - such as the pieces with incalculable costs for the same port organisations, which you lead to a decline with the ultimate aim of privatising. We shall now proceed to the amendment on the freezing of proceeds from criminal activity. You take back the arrangements you have recently voted on, which provided for three months, in order for interrogative and judicial boards to decide what assumptions will continue to be the "frozen" of the assets. This regulation, which you have been rushing to legislate for a long time, as you yourself have said, is coming today to change it by increasing them from three to six months. It is no wonder, of course, that after the international outcry you have suffered from within, such as the 'FINANCIAL TIMES', which were talking about overthrowing Greece's commitment to international standards, combating corruption and money laundering. I would like you here to tell us which statements have been released so far, Mr Ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u388	None.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u389	You don't save it, gentlemen of the government. You've already been exposed irreparably.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u390	What can we save? None.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u391	Finally, they heard about the EBRD and the possibility of transferring ownership or property management it has recorded. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President, I would like. In a minute, I'm done. We, in response to the demand from local societies that wanted to make use of the spaces and real estate for the benefit of the region and its residents, had granted state property to EBRD, even the TIADED, Minister, municipalities and regions of the whole country, Nisser, Giali, Athens, the surroundings of BSE for regeneration, the EBRD camp to become a museum, and thus contributed to the development and upgrading of the areas. We proceeded to over twenty-five real estate concessions throughout Greece. You want to tell us today that you cannot, by legislative provision, grant an area of the Scaramaga Shipyards, pier 4, which the local society is asking for, because the EBRD manages it? You don't have the political will, gentlemen of the government. You don't want it. There's no other explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, my colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute, as we are done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u393	I will repeat and apologise for the fact that the SYRIZA colleagues are coming and do not hear what I am saying. You're coming back for the third time and saying something I've answered it three times, but I'm sorry I have to say it again. You said about journalists, of the "FINANCIAL TIMES" who criticise Greece for certain arrangements. I will say for the third time that I have received e-mail from FAZ, which says that journalists have misinterpreted what the Greek Government has done. It's today's e-mail. How much clearer can I be? So you realize what mistakes you have made. And not just that. She mentions to me the name of the journalist who is pressing to get answers. He's at your disposal. I can't submit it to the minutes because it's e-mail. So, attention to what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u394	Put it down, Minister, in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u395	I can't submit an e-mail. Come and see it. Secondly, the debate on Larco? First of all, no speaker of the Officerial Response and as a whole of the Response did not speak of the 35 million who Greek taxpayers put in "LARCO". For the first time, a Greek taxpayer puts money directly into "LARCO" to save the jobs in "LARCO". Why is that in no place for you? No one. I have been present in all speeches since this morning and not one person has spoken of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u396	So many millions of taxpayers have put in, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u397	In Larco, 35 million euros! SYRIZA had not even put 1 euro in "LARCO"!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u398	So many millions of taxpayers have put in!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u399	If you'll excuse me, now I have the floor. Not even 1 euro! What, then, is the result of the debate? First of all, it emerged that there was no plan up to 7 July from the government at the time, now Dedicated Opposition. I asked it from 10 a.m. in the morning to testify the plan they had as a government, nothing was filed. It's obvious. When Mr Tsakalotos thirteen times responds to me for three years 'we are making the plan', there is no plan. That's the first. There's no plan when you were government. We challenge you to tell us what your plan is now that you are a Dedicated Opposition. Nor are you telling us that and you are making the mistake of the last two speakers and you are going to smack something and you are in contradiction. The previous colleague is talking about an investor, you're talking about public. Unbelievable vertigo!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u400	Public control! Look at it in the Minutes! I was very clear!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u401	The previous colleague spoke of an investor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u402	And public control!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u403	Your Honor, we're not taking the floor without giving it to you, you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u404	Public control with an investor? What will the investor do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u405	Aren't you government?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u406	Minister, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u407	What's he gonna do? Tell me!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u408	If I were government, I'd tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u409	You were six months ago. Tell me what you'd do then.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u410	Did you ask it back then, and I didn't answer you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u411	Minister and colleague, we have no debate between us. Isn't that right? Please very much. Minister, I didn't give you the floor. You said you were done. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u412	Can I have the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u413	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u414	What kind of question can I ask you? Were you responsible for Larco? Or is that where you have vertigo?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u415	No, the Treasury Department.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u416	I asked the Minister of Finance at the time thirteen times, and I tabled it in the Minutes. The answer was you were preparing the plan. I've challenged you since 10:00 to testify a plan and you don't testify. So you realize the embarrassment you are in. We know the difficult situation, we know what to do and we try to do the best for the workers. We have specific limitations, we have found a specific situation, which I alone told in the protology that it was created before your own government, has been exacerbated by your own government and is coming for the first time - hold this! - The Greek taxpayer will put money directly to LARCO for 35m euros in order to save jobs for a year, to move forward, with the expectation of becoming a healthy asset for the benefit of the Greek economy and the local society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u417	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifteen students and students and four educational attendants from the 6th Elementary School of Corfu. The House welcomes you guys.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u418	Madam President, can I have the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u419	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is over. Please very much, you have had the time at the Step and more time. The Minister answered you, exchange views between you, we cannot go on like this. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is adjourned: "Following it from 24.12.2019 BC. ‘Existent arrangements to increase the amount of the social dividend for 2019, to extend the extrajudicial settlement mechanism and to extend the deadline for the abolition of mortgages and real estate offices’ (A'212) and other provisions’. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, five articles, nine amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the entire bill. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you should address to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned can assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u420	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u421	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u422	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Definition of 24.12.2019 P.M.P. ‘Accessive arrangements to increase the amount of the social dividend for 2019, to extend the extrajudicial arrangement for debt settlement and to extend the deadline for the abolition of mortgages and real estate offices’ (A'212) and other provisions’ were accepted by a majority, in principle, of articles, amendments and all of which are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u423	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u424	The House has given the mandate requested. The minutes of Monday 25 November 2019 (in the afternoon), Tuesday 26 November 2019, Wednesday 27 November 2019, Thursday 28 November 2019 and Friday 29 November 2019 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u425	The minutes of Monday 25 November 2019 (the afternoon), Tuesday 26 November 2019, Wednesday 27 November 2019, Thursday 28 November 2019 and Friday 29 November 2019 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-12-S1-commons.u426	With the consent of this House at 20.23 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 13 February 2020 at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and legislative debate, and b) legislative work, according to the supplementary agenda that has been distributed to you.
