ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the House's 27-7-2020 authorisation, PPH's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau on Monday 27 July 2020, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Services unit for Market Control, regulation of economic activity, treatment of illicit trade, fines for the marketing and marketing of counterfeit/false products, regulation of issues for industry, private investment, public-private partnerships, research, innovation and the Chamber of Economics of Greece and other provisions’.]] If you hear me making a mistake, you'll forgive me, because this is the first time I've been going up to Water after an operation I've had in the eye and something might escape me, because I'm in recovery.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u2	Passing!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u3	Iron!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: "Modernisation of private education and other urgent provisions of responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 23 July 2020 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, on articles and amendments. I think the position in the Conference of Presidents was unanimous on the basic recommendation. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u5	The House has agreed. The records will be electronically. So as soon as Mrs. Pipili goes up to Stepma, she'll open the system and as soon as Mr. Phils comes down, she'll close. We will see how many speakers will have signed and there in consultation with Parliament, we will fix the end of the debate tonight. So at the moment I am not suggesting any time, because I do not know how many colleagues will be registered. The second thing I have to ask is this. If a party wants to vote on a roll-call vote, the request is to have been made at noon by 14 noon, so that the services of this House can prepare this House for the vote and take it into account, so that as far as you are concerned, we will determine when the debate is over to take place. I don't have anything else to say. It has asked for a procedure - I suppose - why Mrs Xeno-Giannakopoulos. Here, Mr. Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor. I don't give you time, you're a mere one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u6	I will be very brief, Mr President. Mr President, thank you and iron. Above all health! I would like to address the Minister and the government, because we know that in the last week before the House is closed, there are too many amendments that come from other ministries - not from the bill - and because we heard yesterday that there may be some amendments from the Ministry of Labour, that we should be informed, Madam Minister in good time - I would ask you to convey it to your colleagues - and not at the last moment before the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u7	If the Minister has something to say now, I will give her the floor - if she wants - but I will also make sure that I convey the request, Mrs Xeno-Giannakopoulos. Do you have a picture, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u8	I don't have one. I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u9	Oh, no. So far, it hasn't been updated, but I'll carry it, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulos. So we can start the debate. Mrs Fotini Pipilis, the rapporteur-general of the New Democracy, has the floor. Please open the registration system. There will be a slight tolerance for the rapporteurs - I say this for everyone, if necessary - two three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u10	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The upgrading of education was a major concern of the then President of the New Democracy and Chief of the opposition officer, Ms. Mitsotakis, who, in any public presence, paid particular attention to this issue. I remember the impression that his last speech, as chief of the opposition officer, had caused in the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki in 2018. The Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Niki Kerameos, in a methodical and non-rapid manner, just a month and a half ago, if I remember correctly, entered the process of implementing the announcements by the draft law on the upgrading of the school and other provisions, n.4692/2020, which first reformed public education, and I am sure that other similar legislation will be followed, because the first in the task of the state, first in the duty of Prime Minister and the government, is to upgrade public education in every way. Because for all of us education is the driving force behind the development and progress of the country, a country whose children, children, minds, have been dispersed into the world community and they stand out in the world, hoping, as they themselves say, that they will return to find a homeland free of populism, ideoleptic backwardism and pastoral claws. The private sector, the country's main lever of financing and development, was hit a lot more by the economic crisis than by all the other sectors, especially its dry state policy for four and a half years in the SYRIZA government - ANEL, was chased in a tax-free manner, for example, where the free-traders were conceived, for example, in tax-based or insurance-based, or as shackles who had to pay for maintaining public status quo or, more simply, the most commonly known, as fertilizers and tax-raisers. Then, on SYRIZA - ANEL, Minister of Education, Mr. Nikos Friends, identified his party's political perception, brought legislative provisions without a trace of consultation at that time with a policy that has kneeled private education and completely degraded it. And I said it again, in my prototype, that thankfully we belong to Europe, because otherwise than at that time the vision of the Left and the far right-wing and hard-rights would have been abolished by stubbornly ignoring the global perception of free will and initiative of hundreds of millions of parents throughout the world to study their children in this private education even with their backwardness. Indeed, how hypocrisy that many of the left-wing and other opposition parties, who fully react to the bill, also choose private schools for the education of their children. Friendly, finally, many and serious problems have been created. These issues have made it difficult for private primary and secondary schools to function properly. In summary, it abolishes the restrictions or anachronistic provisions which have put too much obstacles to innovation opportunities in the educational work provided, the possibility and flexibility of private schools to shape and organise more freely their extended timescale is being strengthened, that is to say, the demand that some reluctantly refuse to assess the educational work and the educational and educational structures of private schools, as well as the freedom of private schools to make effective use of their facilities and infrastructures. Here I would stress, why some are overcoming it and maintaining myths, that education in the whole public and private is protected. Publicly protected in Article 16, but other articles of the Constitution protect the private initiative, as well as the guaranteed right of parents to choose how and where their children will study. Of course, the proposed regulation provides for evaluation, as I have already said, of the structures of private schools because some certainly do not comply with the standards and they must be closed, and it is again laid down that private schools are following the current timetable and programme of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, that is to say, they are not uncontrollable. However, this bill is not a single issue and, as the title says, it contains other urgent provisions, to which I will remain and insist, because the urgent other provisions refer only to the upgrading of public education. A special article, for the first time in the public schools of the country, introduces the systematic teaching of the special courses considered in the pan-Hellenic exams. To date, for access to certain schools, departments of higher education, students and students in the third grade of general and vocational schools have been examined during the full-scale examinations in the respective special courses, but these special courses are not taught in total and targeted to the public education system. Also included is a regulation which solves the chronic problem and is very touching due to an update of the equivalence of certificates of study awarded by the Greek high school and high school of Impros following its reopening. Unfortunately, I am going to refer to a timely wound in the area of education in Greece, a wound that touches the limits of obsessive insanity, prevents any attempt to adapt our country to modern times and its needs, namely the establishment of non-state universities, a wound that continues to evacuate the average Greek family, which is mainly the one that, even now, due to the non-change of Article 16 in the recent revision of the Constitution, will continue for at least 10 years to pay the bride with its children who are forced to unholy. Why am I making this uphill? Because the modern Greek state through the relevant Minister, Nikos Kerameos, comes under the provision of this bill to facilitate foreign students who are attending foreign languages in Greece with the footnote that in recent years the number of foreign students attending them has increased significantly and as these foreign students are not only donors to our national economy, but the main returning to their homelands are excellent ambassadors of Greece. Let me say this again, imagine the huge economic benefits we would have so far with the thousands of foreign students who would prefer non-State universities, a good time to prefer Cyprus, especially at this time, which will have a lasting duration, unfortunately, that Greece has managed to be a global country in dealing with the coronary as a country of exclusive security. You will allow me to focus particularly on a climate which is very unpleasant, created by the copy-paste consultation where, in a total of five hundred twenty-five of a school of eight hundred five commentators, an image was created that was inadmissible for a European country with institutions and laws, because all the private teachers were presented to illegally, exploiting, blackmailing, threatening, terrorizing all the working teachers. Unlike this picture in consultation, parents naturally welcome the possibilities offered by the bill to improve the education of their children. I have said this and in my prototype, a vile picture of our country, which we must not really forget is that it is the European country with the toughest, strictest labour legislation, and that is evidenced by those who are following the rulings of the labour courts in Greece that at least 90% of the decisions are always in favour of the workers. So, this myth must be the fictitious fact that all of the private sector are offenders, blackmailers, burglars, tax collectors, while all the private or public workers are always the best, the highest level, the most efficient in their work to stop, all the people who are illegal in Greece are punished. And here, Minister, as I have said in the prototype, it is very important to ensure that everything that is being done and in private education goes through the severe crisis of the competent judicial authority. I'm coming back to the bill. None of the opportunism mentioned even a few positive things, such as that the expansion of the work offered, beyond the timeframe regulated by the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, educational activities, but also sports, artistic and other jobs, will give the opportunity to create additional jobs for teachers who choose private education and give the same teachers who are already working in private education the opportunity to increase their income in a legitimate way. In conclusion, I will refer to a very interesting article by a qualified scientist, workshop and university, Mr.Ioannis Lixouriotis, a professor of Labour Law, Panteion University, published at the Sunday "Kathemerini" just the day before yesterday. The law in question, therefore, makes a reasonable question: 'Why is it 'inadmissible' - within introductory words - 'as does OELE support' - the trade union organ of private teachers - '...the provision of the bill that private teachers should be recruited and employed under contracts of subordination of private law without indefinite duration, that these extensive safeguards contained in labour law will also apply, for example, to the application of the principles of non-prudential exercise of the managerial right, equal treatment, non-discrimination, gender equality, the prohibition of unilateral change in the terms of the contract of employment and other corresponding protective clauses, at the same time when they do not change their full simulation with teachers of public schools? Does the appointment of private teachers by the public service concerned remain the same and in general do not substantially affect aspects of the already privileged treatment of private teachers with regard to workers in other sectors of the private sector, such as doctors in the private sector? That's the last one I'll fill in. ‘Working law covers any worker, regardless of the level of education, and in no way constitutes a depreciation of the worker, nor does it affect the educational work’ It is therefore clear that the Ministry of Education's bill restores the equality and balance between public and private education, reducing state intervention that leads down and never upwards, but introducing for the first time the institution of evaluation of private schools by exercising effective supervision and thus replacing a system of outdated perception of the administration and control of private education. The substance of this draft legislation, the result of methodological work, quite rightly, in my opinion, is condensed on the three-way 'confidence - flexibility - protection'. It is a bill based on constitutional requirements and special laws on education, respecting the right of parental choice in school, supporting and strengthening coordinates, essentially by controlling private initiative. And I'm finishing up. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the Government of New Democracy and our parliamentary group remain faithful to the basic doctrine of all modern European democratic formation, the separation of powers, the faith in the rights of all citizens, respect for laws, respect for justice, the aspects of the supreme value, the freedom of the individual and his choices, either in his evolution or in his personal rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u11	And now the general rapporteur of SYRIZA, Mr Nikolaos Friends, has the floor. Here, Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Why did the government decide to bring the private education bill as quickly and outside the planning it had announced now in the summer? Is that so important? Is this about so many students and so many teachers? Only 6% of the school population is involved. So why did the government bring it in haste and out of programming? It is a bill that pays out pre-election bills. They are written in "DENMARK" the sums they have given in private training in the election campaign of the New Democracy, and now there is the contribution. But that's not all. This is a move by which the New Democracy is moving to the field of education towards extreme neoliberalism. You are looking at the post-political democratic, constitutional acquis as enshrined in the 1975 Constitution, Article 16, which was inspired and written by Evangelos Papapuchos. Do you know Evangelos Papapuchos? Because in a previous speech Mr Mitsotakis said he was following the reform of the Papanoutsou. This is actually Article 16. You also dismantle the laws of Rally - Government of Karamanlis - as well as the laws of Happiness - Gessoulis - Government of Simitis. You are even engaging in the legislation applied by Mrs Giannakou - the government of Karamanlis - while of course you are dismantling the laws of SYRIZA. It is a legislative continuum with differences, which meets the great projections of the post-government period, in the "Psmos, Education, Freedom" and the need for freedom along with equality to find expression in the field of education. This is an expression of struggles and struggles for the democratisation of education in Greece and Europe. This is a great conquest of young people and our people for the last fifty years in our country. You, too, think there is a need to destroy this constitutional acquis. Of course, topicality is a great deal of time. It is not an assessment of the debate on the 1975 Constitution and legislative initiatives. Oh, no! Because we are in the face of new discrimination and inequality that are sweeping our planet and our country. You are also involved in this situation in the disorganisation of the constitutional and legislative rights of citizens and youth. The Constitution and these laws guarded and enlarged the social state, what you systematically undermine. But let me not be unfair. Reiterate the legislation passed by the Troika, by the Samara Government, with the Minister of Arvanitopoulos, a legislation that met the main demands of the school's employer, school directors. We, against the troika, have moved on to the erupting of this anti-democratic offense and the implementation of constitutional legitimacy. We have therefore reinstated the justified redundancies and, indeed, we have forced three-member Judicial Council to take a decision within ninety days as to whether it is legal or abusive. We have brought specific provisions on state supervision, as laid down in the Constitution, because the Constitution speaks of non-state education under the supervision of the state. We have spent 40 hours - thirty-two, as it is in public, plus eight, if it wants a private school - and an expansion of working hours with the agreement of the Education Department, what you call "a check of feasibility" and you pursue it. It's a check that comes from state supervision. It doesn't make every schoolteacher anything he dictates to him. And that law worked without any problems. So, with this law, you are now turning a school into a joint private business. You are slaughtering the teachers' working rights. But you'll tell me, school exists for students and not for teachers. It's a big plan! The school for students must be guaranteed dignity and professional qualifications. With fear and persecuted teacher there can be no school in favour of the student. And you, with these provisions you have, with the infamous 'flexibility', as you say, always applying his right and his privilege, you are insulting the freedom of education, the dignity of teachers, you are creating a climate of intimidation and terror and you are undermining the right to education. What measures do you anticipate? You even anticipate the dismissal of an educator in the middle of the year because he did not comply with the suggestions, for example, he did not put the good score. There are complaints about these earlier about what happened in private schools. Such dismissal, however, in private schools - I repeat, not everything, but rather in quite a few - destabilizes education and creates unfair competition - you like these phrases, anyway - between the children of the public and the private school, because the degree of the dismissal is taken into account in the introductory examinations at universities, as well as in the exams of the AACC. You tell us "Let the fired men go to court, brother, like everyone else." In other words, no solution in ninety days, as provided for by the Constitutional law in the sense of the special state supervision that must exist in education, but in three to five years' time. And with what legislation? Dismissal without reason! This, however, is contrary to state supervision. Even the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, even rounded up, formulates a sect: "Let's see how state supervision is to be implemented by law." So when you say to us: 'To go to the courts', you predicted that there would be a breakthrough of labour law, because the first act that you took in September was the abolition of justified redundancies. What we as Ministry of Education have achieved within the memoranda - especially in the field of private education - and what the SYRIZA administration has then extended it to the whole range of industrial relations, abolish it and fight state supervision in the field of education. Schools with absolute control of the owner are free and autonomous, as you say? This will decide on recruitment and redundancies, without any interference from the competent three-member judiciary which we had set up. In fact, the formation was not of the Ministry, but it was made by court ruling. Secondly, it is the employer who decides the assessment, as you say. We are talking, however, about the intimidation of assessment, because the evaluation - a tsaro, a foot, we disagree as you have said - you have guaranteed it in public education too. Yes, sir. Why additional private assessment data and what are these? Who's entranting them? Who puts them on? The employer puts it on. This process is intimidating. Thirdly, there is the additional programme without the agreement of the training director. Fourthly, we are talking about the functioning of foreign languages within the school sector and other activities not purely educational, the notorious 'employing right', as is exercised in a profitable way above child education. That's the message you're giving with this bill. Your bill is precursor to even more reactionary regulations in public education: a few hundred high-level schools, as you say the rest abandoned. In the background - we heard it yesterday from Members of the New Democracy - there are the wonderful vouchers, that is, the coupons of the so-called free parental choice. We give the parent coupons to choose which school he goes, public or private - take care, both in private with voucher and in public - and the majority in schools let her sink. It is clear that in this conception of public education, it is also the arrangement by which the artistic lessons that existed - not sufficiently - in the secondary education programme, you have made them from the programme of compulsory and voluntary follow-up and put them in the so-called 'compensatory treatment', i.e. with funds from the NSRF, temporarily downgraded, apart from education. That's what you're doing. You have done the same with sociology and political science. You have a school in your mind of classical engraving away from reality and needs today, away from a vision of modern and democratic discipline of our children. The phrase ‘non-State education’ does not exist in the bill. You keep talking about private. The Constitution speaks of non-state education. Will you tell me now, will we start byzantinism? Listen. In the debate at the time on the Constitution, there were opinions on the need to abolish private education and the wording of 'non-state education', which was, I repeat, a compromise proposal - it was taken over by Evangelos Papanoutsos and was included in the Constitution - was precisely about the need for state supervision and not private schools in the sense of private business. There were other far-reaching proposals at the time. I am referring to an article of a man, not from the left that we all had - and Andreas Papandreou had his views, such as the JRC and the Interior KIC and the HRC - and then we talked about more radical solutions, but of a person who is above Syrian suspicion, Paul Bakoyannis, on 7 January 1976. Calls for a programme for the abolition of private education. And as long as there is private education, he says, the state has a duty to ensure the perpetuality of its teaching staff. Who says that? SYRIZA? Oh, no! Paul Bakoyannis in 1976.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u13	In 1976... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] And is there a change in your values? This is radical liberalism. Are you guys changing now? Are you becoming extremist neoliberal? You say other things?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u14	Times have changed now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u15	Easy!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u16	It matters because - beware of something - you may change because you have...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u17	Please, Mr. Pleari.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u18	...by employers, but the IAEA, which is an organization of the teachers of the New Democracy, announcing it, denounces this law and rejects the political argument that you allegedly legislate on the basis of your election commitments. Indeed, there are commitments, but such, economic and other, such as ideological blindness. These are your commitments and not the public interest, the interests of our children and the interests of education. It is no coincidence that all parties here in Parliament, all educational bodies, OELE, OLEME, ILO, GSE, ADEDY, are all society against this legislation. Everybody! You're alone! And since you did not like the great majority, eight out of ten citizens, who entered the consultation, was against the bill, we heard the rapporteur of the New Democracy talking about a wretched consultation, i.e. a wretched parliamentary procedure. It's a wild consultation! I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u19	I didn't say "funny"! Don't lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u20	You'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u21	Mrs. Pipili, you don't have the floor. Don't hold a dialogue!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u22	Mrs Pipilis, I accept, even after four to five days, the correction that the picture created by the consultation is bleak. And that's still the clue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u23	Is that the same?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u24	Exactly the same. It's a terrible consultation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u25	Oh, is that the same? The image that you form is pathetic!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u26	They're not written in the Minutes anyway. Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, the government is indifferent to hundreds of thousands of students. He's disgraceing the public school. I heard the owners’ representative say that the private school is two years higher than the public school and that the government was not answering. He thought it was self-evident. You have converted the Ministry of Education into a private education office. You're a broker of interests. Cover scandals that have been investigated by justice and education and you are offering them political coverage and protection. You upgrade them to a member of the Board of Directors of the Institute for Education Policy. We have names, too, if you're provoking us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u28	Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u29	Legislative handiwork. You have doubled the bill, even today, with the amendment on the appointment of training directors. Just a while ago, with Law No 4920/2020, you yourself said that the term of office of training officials has been extended and now you are moving on with a last-minute amendment to dismantle it. Why? What for? And not just that, but you're planning to appoint temporary directors, as you say. You know, however, that no more permanent temporary. At least one year will be because training directors don't change within the year. In other words, you are planning to appoint permanent training directors without a mobilisation process, by a decision of a party ministerial committee. At the same time, you are being abolished from the service councils by members whose term of office would expire in three, four months, i.e. a full party state. This is your most infamous state. Ladies and gentlemen, you have received from SYRIZA an important task in education. We brought democracy to school. Do You Remember? Thousands of availability and redundancies signed by Mr. Mitsotakis. We fought to upgrade education to conditions of commemorative coercion. We opened the way for appointments. I would remind you that we have written four and a half thousand assignments for special treatment in the 2019 budget. The funds were there, to make appointments to special education in 2019. By Act of the Ministerial Council we provided tens of thousands of five hundred appointments for 2020 and 2021. You voted against the law on appointments, but you didn't dare change it. Speech. Unscrupulous opposition. Then we forget about it. Also, you voted against the appointments as Opposition in the shape that every five who leave one will be hired. That's what you said - you remember them - and in the election. We then agreed 'one to one' with the institutions. One's leaving, one's hired. Now you are forced to go too far: one year after special education and see what will happen to the other ten thousand appointments in general. Ladies and gentlemen, public good, good education. This is our understanding. It needs consensus on the basis of the Constitution, not the ideological blindness of the government. Quality, equality, freedom. This is a tripartite, which should serve the democratic school, the public school, and the private education. That's what's haunting you, and you're systematically demolishing them. Citizens realize that. This is why in the field of education the New Democracy is disapproved. So do you, Minister, in all the polls. Where the New Democracy, the government because of the coronary, shows high rates of acceptance, especially in education, loses 10 points in acceptance of society towards the government and you are struggling from the third place in the eleventh place of the popularity of the ministers. That means something. I recognize one ability - let me say it with all due respect for your office - to lie in the most natural way in the world and to be thankful to the interests that have shown you and supported you. Krone. You refused the dialogue and the measures that we proposed to you. You have not called, and you are not calling the Committee on Morphic Affairs. Again, we suggest you do it. Tomorrow, tomorrow. Convening of the Committee on Morphic Affairs to prepare the school for the coronary. We proposed ten specific measures for infrastructure, cleanliness, additional teaching staff and how to organise school and courses in the event of a new pandemic wave by region, not in general. Also, support distance education through a public network rather than "jobs" with large foreign enterprises for which I note that you have not yet given us to read the contracts, with the support of children who do not have a technological infrastructure in their homes, so that they do not add to the existing inequalities and gaps in the digital divide. How many electronic devices from public money, not sponsorships and donations, have you been purchased? We're listening to numbers. Nothing's gone to school yet. It is a critical factor in the restructuring of the matter. What's the EPA doing about it? Mr President, thank you for understanding. I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Philly, you need to close down immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u31	I'm done. This bill, I repeat, does not only concern non-state education. It is a premise for a more general reactionary relapse throughout education. SYRIZA doesn't want to close private schools. Schools won't be closed by decrees. We were told by the representatives of school heads who spoke here. Nonsense! Biblicals! The battle that a government gives is in favour of the public interest and the public interest means first of all a public school that is better and then it is not the private ones that will go, even a few children, to meet the expectations of their parents. That's the future. Public school that is constantly upgraded, democratic public school and state supervision, as the Constitution says, and private education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u32	Please close the registration system. For your information, just to know and plan your business, forty-two colleagues have been registered. With a clipboard calculation, which we made here with the Services of Parliament, the vote regardless of whether it is nominal, whether it occurs, or normally, about 10: 00 at night. If it is nominal, we all need those who want to vote. If it's not, we'll have the acquaintance. The rapporteurs will be present to say about the articles, etc. Wholesale around 10: 00 at night. Mrs. Kefalidou, special buyer from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, all colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, education is one. In all modern countries it operates on the basis of a clear national regulatory framework. Public or private is the provision of the public good of education, which is a primary obligation of the State and is exercised through its regulatory role, whether as strategic planning, guidance or supervision of its quality. The comparison of the institutional framework, which we have built for private education in relation to the rest of Europe, is unfortunately disappointing. All over Europe, its role remains strong. But powerful at the same time is the power and responsibility of the state to ensure that the laws and principles on which education is based are respected. In Greece the private school, meaning misunderstood, burdened with ideology, class, divisional logic - not only for historical but mainly political reasons - has, over time, offered excellent services. Mr Giannis Loverdes reminded us of this in the committee. Referring to historical figures of progressive teachers, such as Moraitis, I.M. Panagiotopoulos, great teachers who through the private schools were educated, but mostly trained, generations of Greeks. That's exactly why it's good and it's necessary to talk about private schools as well. In any case, there is only a conflict between public and private in the minds of fanatical micronomists. The two systems are just as necessary. They move in parallel and, where necessary, they strengthen each other. The International Covenant on Civil and Social Rights is well aware that the individual right to education, which includes the right for citizens to choose the school for their children freely and the respective obligation of the State to facilitate this choice. This fundamental obligation of the state is implemented through the Ministry of Education, whose main task is to monitor and supervise compliance with both the letter and the spirit of the law as regards both public and private education. The protection of the right to business - also protected by the Constitution - is so much cut off by the Ministry of Education, you will allow me to tell you that it is the main job and mission of the relevant Ministry of Development. The Ministry of Education is and must remain secondary. In a private education bill, therefore, we cannot start and end by guaranteeing the right of private school owners and how it will be implemented through the liberalisation of teachers' redundancies. He does not honor any of us, first with the leadership of the Ministry of Education. It does not, however, honor private school owners themselves or the proven important work they offer, by providing worthwhile, often innovative education and with huge effort in this suffocating environment that the former SYRIZA - ANEL governance has created. It was also made by the representative of the owners of private schools, Mr Kyrilidis, during the debate in the committee with the bodies. Mr. Kyriilidis said: "The results of Greek private school students in the relevant pan-European competition are above the average of Europe's private schools." And he continued: "It turned out that students of private schools are two more educational years in front of public schools students." And he informed the Morphics Committee that according to an article in Kathimerini, where there are statistics, private schools are located one and a half higher than standards and experimental schools. And the representative of private schools is doing very well and proud of these results. They show that educational, as far as private schools are concerned, they are mostly doing a serious job and educate our children properly. At the same time, however, it shows something else. It shows the situation in the public school, the situation that SYRIZA should make and the previous leadership of the Ministry of Education hides from the current leadership, which is one year at the wheel of the Ministry of Education, at least it lowers the head for what it has not done, for the priorities it has made, for the balls that every three and a little brings and it calls them with falsifiers, heavy titles and burying citizens in the hope - all of us live in this hope - that something will finally change from the trapped, obsolete and incomplete education offered by the Greek state to its children. And my question remains: These results are something for which the Ministry feels nationally proud and justified? I personally - and I tell you in all honesty as a Member of Parliament and a school member - as a representative of the Dramas Prefecture, who has not had a single private school - have never been - but as a parent I feel ashamed of such a finding, which says that the Ministry of Education has not been able to understand - let alone respond - its primary task. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kyriilidis also said something else: a school of school, not an educational centre. Whatever it is, school still means teacher. Without worthy, safe, dedicated teachers, tomorrow's society is prejudicially doomed. As many new objects as possible, as many robotic, as many cameras as new summer activities as new, free regulations, good school without good teachers can. And a good teacher cannot be the consumable, nor will he who, in order to keep his job, will become elastic among the owner's business, nor the one who is announced the reduction of hours with the corresponding reduction in wages at the hand of the entrepreneur. The suffocating intervention of the State in every manifestation of public life, built with obsessive commitment over the last forty years, has not left either the training unscathed, the manner of licensing, the way in which it operates, the educational programmes implemented in the schedules of private schools. The work of private education teachers is the last. The Ministry promotes a commonly accepted need for most people. It highlights the need for greater flexibility and autonomy in private educational structures and brings this bill, which, however, all its centre of gravity is ultimately limited to two articles, 9 and 10, and their satellites. This is certainly what the Ministry wants to do, as if all the problems and malfunctions in private education were to be solved by magic when the redundancies of teachers and the owners of private schools - with the blessings of the state - were able to turn those whom we trust in the education and education of our children into know-how distributors. It was advertised that this draft law introduces a new landscape in private education with regulations that promote the release of private school from the suffocating control of the state, inspiration and implementation of SYRIZA with Law 4415/2016: Expanded timetable, afternoon care centres in private schools, out-of-school activities during the course of the teaching year, but also during the summer - all these will be organized by teachers who, according to the Ministry, will have additional opportunities for paid employment - free choice of managers, internal regulation. All of these are a few euphoria that overthrows the present landscape, which we inherited from previous governance. Ladies and gentlemen, we are appalled by the relief in Articles 9 and 10 of the bill, the logic of the Ministry of Education to deal with teachers working in private schools. These teachers themselves - I would remind you - on whom the Ministry was based - in their ambition and defence - to keep the televised system upright during the Krone period. We are talking about these teachers today, who did at night, day to be ready and to be able to keep our children almost three months in an educational process. Because distance education by teachers in private schools began. Let us not fool ourselves, they had the "know how". And I'm going to Article 9 on the employment of teachers. Madam Minister, the private school must remain a school as defined in the Constitution, Article 16(8). And that's the state's responsibility. In this sense, it cannot be a pretext for every citizen - parent, who is blackmailing the businessman - to do the same to the state in turn. Your role - I say it again - is regulatory and, as such, no Minister is allowed to become the subject of any interest group. Inadmissibility of the regulation which provides for the possibility of a harmful change in working conditions with the blessings of the Ministry, a regulation which creates insecurity and disruption of the school and educational climate, without providing for the slightest condition, only because the businessman will judge it. I wonder how well a puppet teacher can continue his training work and how much. Of course, this does not concern the Minister or any of the owners of private schools. Their problem solves Article 10 for the liberation of redundancies. Anyone who doesn't keep being good at it, even in these circumstances, we just change it. This is what we mean when we say that you change people who serve in one of the most serious functions for tomorrow's social group, in consumables. In other words, the Ministry simply allows the teacher to become a "black" and "ladder" to run from unit to unit of entrepreneur in order to be able to justify his poor wage. And all these fine words in the explanatory statement, what did you want, Minister? Why don't you keep them for any other bills? After all, you follow as a strategic design in education the method of salamation, every little and a little bit of a bill - patching. What can liberation and the proper functioning of private schools, the strengthening of their flexibility and autonomy, the safeguarding of the educational process, the abolition of restrictive or anachronistic provisions, which hamper the opportunities for innovation with the teacher - 'Tiramola' of Giorgios Rephips, which I expect to create in this bill? Article 10. Private training contracts. In a phrase 'easy hire, easy fire'. And even more so, the Ministry goes further ahead and defines, defines, limits the work of the natural judge, as if the judge does not know his work and needs the intervention of the ministry to suggest it to him. To date the owner of a private training course was only able to fire someone when there was a reduction of classes or disciplinary. Sufficient and extreme indeed. But from there to the end of uncontrolled liberalisation of redundancies there is a huge distance: distance of logic, consciousness of the role of educational, constitutional protection which the bill circumvents with unprecedented indifference. In fact, it creates many speeds and many classes of teachers and opens the gap between those employed in public and private schools. The constitutional requirement for equal treatment of teachers goes for a walk. I also insisted on the debate in committee. The Ministry must answer frankly to the fundamental question. Are teachers like other workers? You, Minister, have answered what it is. If it is, then why do you keep the provisions of common labour legislation in these people? Our own rules - and I would like to remind you - also took into account the private sector entrepreneur and the parent who chooses from his post a private school because he wants a good teacher and teacher in private education, which every day gives tests to all of us. Our proposal is tabled. Every year and per tier the owner can make an unnecessarily dismissal, all other redundancies can be fully justified. Some businessmen really didn't care very much. Your role is not that of the protector of education entrepreneurs. To close, I just want to stand in one of the other articles, in Article 2, for evaluation. What did you want to do with it, Minister? This damn assessment of what you call it, and you say it again, and you languish it in every bill and every second announcement to the media, you advertise it, but you never dare? You come and make it, you say, a flag to private education. SYRIZA has indeed abolished it from every form of educational system, beginning with the institutions that could exercise it and are not other than school advisors. You came as a new government and what are you doing? What you didn't dare at the public school enter it in private. A system, you say, which will be evaluated accordingly with what is in public school. So no evaluation system, since there are no school advisors. Who's gonna do it? And because you also wondered whether we opposed the evaluation of the Change Movement, that is, if the political area, which introduced the concept of evaluation and applied it with Law 3848/2010 on standards and experimentals, today it supports it, I will say it again so that people can hear it. They're the ones watching and we're finally accounting for them. The Greek education system still lacks real evaluation procedures. Why? Why don't you dare. You are recurring between reformist efforts and resistances in both the evaluation of educational work and teachers and the self-assessment of the school unit. What's the rough solution? The evaluation of the judgement of the private teacher owner and you cleaned up. Nor did this bill, ladies and gentlemen, save the night's amendments. I told you yesterday in committee, I was a proclaimer of what will follow. So I told you today. You're dragging the facts. It has haird our language to tell you, with four questions and a number of places we have tabled - of course the questions have never been answered - and to ask you one thing. We're telling you that if there's a deadlock in the management of educational staff, what do you intend to do? How will you proceed with your reform work with all this staff, training directors who were chosen unconstitutionally by the Gavroglou law that SYRIZA inherited you? But you're the ones who go on. And yesterday in the panic, perhaps because of the great publicity he took on the theme of the coordinator, who named Yannis Antetokubo monkey, and you had just renewed him with an extension of service for the third time, you feel and you are exposed. What can you do? So you came with the easy solution. Locking up the other guys, putting our guys in. The point is that it must be resolved because it has abused, but not so. We waited for a bill and you tabled a glue amendment. We have waited for clear, reputable and legal procedures, and we have a legitisation from the old. Our proposal is Law 3848/2010. We ask you to withdraw this amendment, because unfortunately this distorting hierarchy in the policy of the Ministry of Education, its inability and vulnerability, we all pay it, the administration of education, the schools, the students and the citizens pay it. We are at the threshold of a new era where the need for more Europe is recognised as a one-way road and the need to bridge the gap between the Member States is undisturbed. So education is the ideal pilot. Educational convergence is the seabed, surely the way to a start.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u34	Mrs. Kefalidou!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u35	I'll be done. Thank you very much, Mr President. We therefore need educational policies that bring us together with our European partners. Our dismissals, our examination system and the curriculum programmes must be constantly moving in this direction. However, this requires a comprehensive design of the Greek educational process either at the public or at the private school. But it requires, above all, the Ministry's will and determination to get away from the shackles of short-term impressiveity, which leads to policy of hands-on repairs quickly, like this bill. And I close with an amazing one I read in the interview of Helen Glyptzi - Arveler, which says that "education needs reform, education needs consent, education is not salami to cut it off and make it changes by grade". No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u36	I have the honour to announce the topical and urgent question report of Wednesday 29 July 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou, Minister for the Interior, dated 966/27-7-2020, on the issue of the adoption of a Joint Ministerial Decision (JRC) setting out the terms, conditions and procedures for the application of Article 123 of Law 4674/2020. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 960/27-7-2020 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: “The danger to public health and the start of the tourist season, due to incomplete protection measures.” 3. The question by No 952/22-7-2020 of the Greek Parliamentary of Serres, Mr. Konstantinos Boubas, to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "An indication of the legal system against borrowers who wish to be subject to the successor structure of the Katseli Act". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 962/27-7-2020, by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki, to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "Application of measures to housing about four hundred Roma in Aspropyrgos after the demolition of their accommodations. Take emergency measures to protect health’. The reason is the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Ioannis Delis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u37	Thank you. There is, ladies and gentlemen, a normality which is never disturbed by anything. Who's that? All important educational laws, all the hard anti-educational measures to be passed in the summer, with schools closed. So today's private education bill, which, among other things, objectively helps and strengthens, speeds up the concentration of capital invested by capitalists in the field of education, a bill satisfying all the requirements of education entrepreneurs - first of all, all representatives of these entrepreneurs in the government bill were standing in the committee for the government bill - requirements which the government is directly satisfying, as it says, are also compatible with its declarations. In fact, it is imperative that the Government adopt this bill in good time, so that, in the new school year, the institutional framework for the operation of private schools is exactly the way they want it to be, that is to say, that they have the hands of schools to increase the exploitation of private teachers and of larger areas of business in front of them in the wider educational sector, with the vehicle to make use of their premises. I wish, in the same rush and warmth as the government shows to satisfy the wishes of schoolchildren that the government would show it and the question of preparing for the beginning of the new school year. Five weeks before the opening of schools and the basic conditions for their smooth operation in the COVID era are still in the air. We are, of course, talking about the crucial issue of school roofing, their lack of rooms or their inappropriateness when it is certain that much more such school halls will be needed. We are talking about the recruitment of the majority of teachers who will need and which must be completed in a timely manner and not "swirl" until Christmas. We are talking about the real solution to the question of the cleanliness of schools by taking this responsibility from the state itself and with the necessary permanent recruitment of cleaners and not the ball of these responsibilities to throw it away to the municipalities again. Speaking of the recruitment of teachers, take up your responsibilities, Minister, and restore the injustice, which exists more than two thousand young teachers, who are unreservedly excluded from the appointment tables, as well as from the right to work for the next three years, due to a paradox of 3 euros and the inappropriate operation of the electronic system. The JRC tabled yesterday an amendment which solves this issue and called on the Government to accept it. The Minister responded with submissives and cheap excuses of style "this is not a matter of the Ministry of Education, but it is a matter of the Ministry of Interior". So the amendment tabled by the JRC is addressed to the Government through the Ministry of Education. And they can do well, if they want, to consult the ministries and accept the JRC's amendment on such an elementary issue that tortures thousands of young teachers. But let us go back to the bill, for which a great helmet was raised in committee for so many days from the confrontation here in the House between the government and SYRIZA, which seems to have finally been found after a long time and a matter for quarrel. The intercategories give them and they take. What a neoliberalism we hear from SYRIZA! With charges of persecution of private education, New Democracy is answering! Even if SYRIZA is to blame - some of its Members - even for Soviet policy. Who, SYRIZA! That from the point of view of the simple apology of the capitalist system, which, as we call it, has always been, evolved and carried out by a competent servant and manager of this system, and at a time quite difficult for the system. You know, it suits SYRIZA to charge him these positions he doesn't have. As also suits your bipartite confrontation with the hollow. Why wait! To the master, in the main disagreement? In other words, there is business activity in education, do you disagree? Of course not. You both agree. This is your common political basis, you are simply fighting about how this business action will be done and how it will be more profitable for its entrepreneurs. This, however, is precisely the root of the problems for private teachers, as is the root of the problem for the content itself and for the quality of private education. According to the Government, in the institutional context, there are provisions which make it difficult for private schools to function properly. There are provisions, according to the government, that have been anachronistic which prevent them from innovating so far, but above all - and here it is all - manage the relative risk. With all this, the current bill which, as we have said, is overshadowed by the measures and the interests of the teachers of education. This is why it is unsatisfactory and does not serve the interests of private teachers. Every article, from the first thirteen, which refers to private schools, is also a facilitation, is a gift for the capitalists of education. And at the same time it is an attack, it is a scanning of the working rights of workers of teachers. Besides, that's how the winning machine works in any capitalist business. What are the obstacles, please, and the anachronisms to advance business penetration in education and increase the profits of education dealers? First - first - they are the few working rights left to teachers in private schools. You see, for that reason, the policy of all governments, which in recent years, in fact, has also taken a wild form with the memoranda in favour of the capital you have voted on separately or all together. These few remaining rights are cracking the government's legislation. Of course, the rights that SYRIZA has undermined as government. It is characteristic that a collective agreement has been concluded for years to be seen by private teachers. And SYRIZA as a government then, along with the other parties, stubbornly refused to adopt the proposal for a law of hundreds of unions tabled by the JRC for a substantial return, but also for a free collective bargaining of collective agreements. But let's see how what's positive for schoolgirls is getting negative for teachers' workers. More freedom is sought by education entrepreneurs. And the government responds to their request and is, in fact, fascinating about it. So it leaves schoolchildren free to dismiss their schools whenever they want and whoever teacher wants, by extinguishing even any justification, even the necessary assent of a committee of judges which has been in existence so far. How's that in the bill? With an extremely simple move, by submitting the work contracts of private teachers from the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Labour, namely by subjecting these contracts to the common labour law, which would perhaps be more appropriate to call it employers' law. On the one hand, freedom for employers to lay off whenever they want and for whatever reason they want. Deputies, in fact, can fire them even during the same school year. This is an extortion over tool and pressure on teachers. On the other hand, captivity in fear and insecurity and stress for teachers, under the constant threat of their dismissal, but also in question in practice of their pedagogical role, a role which certainly does not thrive in conditions of pressure and Employer terrorism. But you know what? Fearful teachers only feared students can make. In order not to blame the government, however, it also gives teachers freedom. It gives them freedom, the possibility, it says, to resign part of their working hours, which means that part of their wages is also waived. It would just be funny if it wasn't so challenging and so antique. In fact, this provision is intended for drivers of employers' arbitrariness, which is essentially established by this article. However, the freedoms granted to school owners are not complete. You give the freedom to private schools' owners to apply - beyond what applies to public education - and to additional assessment criteria, completely arbitrary. In other words, you allow them to set up their own system of assessment for their own school and teachers, of course in line with the business interests of the owner or shareholders - because business things have gone ahead in private education too - of an educational firm. Wait a minute, though. What exactly are you telling us here? That the evaluation of professional competence, which is to say the evaluation of the scientific establishment of a teacher, will be carried out here on the basis of entrepreneurial and economic criteria? Do you know what this is? Apart from contradictory and undisciplined, of course, it is far from unprecedented. Because deliberate ambiguity and employers' arbitrariness - which not only allows, but also encourages such an employers' evaluation system for private teachers - all these are a very useful tool for employers to easily create, whenever and when they want, the right reasons for dismissing unsatisfactory teachers, who are usually those who insist on claiming their rights and not to silence, or those who defend both their teaching status and their educational work and the objectivity of their judgment. This is also of crucial importance, taking into account that the qualifications of private schools are equal to those of the public authorities. The government's facilities for education entrepreneurs, however, do not stop here. With Article 3, one of the most important articles, but in order to further increase the revenues of private schools, their conversion to "supermarkets of educational products and services" is also inaugurated, which will work, as will the rest of the market, from morning to night, even on Sundays, even on holidays, where they will be able to sell all kinds of educational and educational content, sporting, cultural, artistic and other forms of atypical education. And all this after the school's normal hours, even on holidays, expanding their clientele, attracting students, even from public schools in the afternoons and in competition with the smaller schools in the area, in the name of the utilization of all buildings and flexibility. In short, the private school at the end of its normal working hours can be transformed into a school, either in the same business or in cooperation with large educational institutions. At the same time, private schools are able to accumulate with foreign language centres and schools, which, of course, were in place, and other private schools, with foreign schools, with lifelong learning centres, as well as other bodies. Who will operate with all these nice additional educational services, as the draft law calls them, all these activities, sports, cultural, artistic, as well as hospitality? But, of course, the teachers of these private schools, quite voluntarily! Just, with a tomacle break of dismissal hanging over their heads, if they dare to deny. The owners of private schools, however, all these activities will come out quite cheaply, since they will also save overtime payments, since they will be considered as normal teaching hours. In short, it is how generous the government with the entrepreneurs and traders of education that not only gives them the right to use any evaluation system they want and to make up any internal school rules that suit them, but in fact it eliminates the bill any suspicion of control by the Ministry of Education for all these diverse activities of private schools, at the end of their compulsory programme. According to the bill, the Ministry’s assent is not even required for the contents of all these activities. It is simply a notification, a notification, that is enough, as is, of course, relaxed by any control over the compulsory private school programme itself. After all, it is not too much to say that the government is giving its teachers everything they have asked for. However, it is true that private school workers have been living in the current institutional framework for the pressures and threats of employers, and that they have been experiencing delays in their payment. Here the government, by the way, may look a little at helping teachers of the "Ziridis", who spend difficult hours, who seem to be the victim of the capitalist competition from educational enterprises. All these teachers live up to the unprecedented demands of the employer for work intensity, which is often black and unpaid. What is being done today in the bill is the removal of all the most recent obstacles on the road to the complete abolition of all rights. And, of course, the private schools bill is also the precursor to overall, similar changes in the schools as well, in the context of always the equation with the rest of the private sector, but - let us also notice this - in public education. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] A small comment I would like to make on the strengthening teaching of special courses, a provision for which the Ministry is taking on board. Two-three weeks ago, with the timetables, he removed from the normal programme of the Greek-Greek university courses, such as the Free and Linear Plan. Now, these lessons, as well as other lessons, which were not taught - it is true - bring them in the form of aiding teaching. In other words, "to burn you, Giannis, to lure you oil." But what does the experience of strengthening teaching and additional teaching support say? That they usually start in the middle of the year at best, they are managed by contracted teachers, and all this does not make us feel that, in fact, students will be adequately supported by these courses. In our view, it is a solution for these lessons to be included in the school programme, for all children to be taught equally, much more when it comes to courses all over the world and, of course, for these courses to be carried out and taught by permanent educational staff. We are of course voting against both our first thirteen articles of the private education bill. In the remaining half of the bill we have disagreements, we have some agreements where we need to. Overall, however, in principle, we are voting against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u38	And we thank Mr. Delis. I'd like to call the special speaker and Vice President of the House of Mera25, Mrs. Sakorafa. There was an agreement between the last two rapporteurs that Mrs Sakorafa should be preceded on the grounds of her obligations outside Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank my colleague, because I really have a committee, and I have to be there, and I have already been delayed. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill which, on the basis of formal competence, is recommended by the Minister for Education. From a substance point of view and because of its content, I think that you should organise the parliamentary procedure so that the Ministry of Development, Trade, which we used to say, can introduce. The contents of the bill, in the part concerning private education, are determined by a single feasibility. The unconditional strengthening of the entrepreneurship of the owners of private schools. That is where your legislation is exhausted, and indeed, with a clear contempt for the multi-faceted social costs that will be incurred in its implementation. In each of his articles you see trade, you see state and legislative interventions to ensure the profitability of all private schools, provisions for the educational and pedagogical process will not be found anywhere. And that is what you want to call modernisation. No surprise. Use again this magical word that fits everywhere and can be used without having to define its true content. This is the well-known neoliberal recipe: Institutionalisation for the benefit of specific interests with full indifference to the distinct and surely negative social consequences. With such bills, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, existential questions arise about the functioning of democracy and parliamentaryism, as well as about the role of Co-Population and Opposition. You know that opposition - for us - is not an end in itself. We would like - and I told you in committee - to take positive legislative initiatives and take part in the process with corrective, social interventions alone. But this is not the case. Here you want us to ratify an ex-institutional initiative of unprecedented service of specific interests. It seems that a dragon of businessmen wants to legislate simply using state institutions as a tool. And besides unannounced, unfortunately, he's probably gonna make it. Implementing power appears provocably willing and legislative power, with the particular governmental self-responsibility, will institutionalise the result by, once again, giving rise to the functioning of our democracy. Minister, let's not hide behind our finger. We do not have a governmental legislative initiative here. Government participation is only complementary, although absolutely necessary. And the simple reading of the bill, for someone who has contact with the subject, gives the impression that it is not the product of an institutional legislative process. The administrative experience and know-how of the services of the Ministry of Education was not even involved. And as long as the conclusion is drawn: these are provisions which have been developed by worthy legal representatives of specific entrepreneurs active in the field of private education. Others call them "bourgeois," but they consider the term obsolete. Their entrepreneurship does not want to be determined by the way it works or has to function, a school. I would really like you to be able to convince me of the opposite to what is obvious. Here the legislative initiative belongs essentially to others and democratic institutions are only used as a vehicle to achieve their own objectives. And until you convince us about this, we will have the right to remain in our original certainty. But, if that's true, then things are really bad. No one has the right to decouple state institutions and constitutional procedures in such a way. It is outside the function of democracy and the legality of unilaterally dictated provisions is outside the constitutional logic. And I'm making something clear. Whenever I turn to the legislator, it is clear that I do not say it in the institutional sense of the word. I am referring to the extra-institutional authors of these private education provisions. In any case, of course, the Government itself has absolute political responsibility for this legislation. You take full responsibility as executive authority, particularly through the people of the competent, Minister and Prime Minister, but also as a parliamentary majority, who legislates with its own self-reliance. The bill has only one direction in which it can be honestly and without any pretext: Degrading public supervision and weakening all relevant institutional frameworks, at the altar of the uncontrolled almightyness of the owner of the private school. Although - as I said before - the word "school" this bill probably wants us to forget it. But there is one fundamental and insurmountable contradiction: it cannot be forgotten that private education is one of the two pillars of education infrastructure in our country, as is elsewhere. It publishes qualifications equal to those of public schools. And we can all understand what essential value the curriculum qualifications will have in accordance with procedures laid down by the legislative dominance of business logic will be. It is precisely you that today you want to institutionalise the absolute sovereignty of business feasibility, and indeed, with the closest importance of the concept throughout the structure of private education in Greece. The educational and educational conditions are completely missing from this bill. That would, under normal circumstances, be unthinkable. That is why the only possible interpretation is the unauthorized interdependence relationships, which I mentioned earlier. It is not enough to justify such legislation the childish invoicing of any so-called neoliberal ideology. I would mention, for example, some of the characteristic arrangements you want to introduce with this bill: Another indicted word, without defined content, is the famous evaluation. Article 2 provides that ‘the application of additional evaluation criteria by private schools is possible’. That's not a law, Minister. You provide for the setting of criteria, without control, without approval, without even the obligation to draw up an evaluation framework, without procedural provisions and without any certification. What you are establishing cannot in any way constitute a real evaluation. Should you explain, Minister, why does the state not want to establish a framework of real evaluation, on the basis of objective and scientific criteria by an independent committee, with full reference to the educational and pedagogical nature of the services provided by schools? And in any case, it is not possible for the legislator to leave the will of ownership in this critical field unregulated. On what basis do you give such authority to the owner's individual will and how do you view it, by definition and from the outset, absolutely credible? It would be very interesting to hear a reasoned opinion justifying this absolute confidence by the legislator in the personal disposition of the owner, and also by an employer, who is uncontrolled by an established authority. A similar establishment of an uncontrolled actor of property is also introduced with the complete release of educational programmes and activities, without any institutional guarantee for their educational and pedagogical value. The legislator shall remove from the framework of the programme the audit role of the Education Manager and the scientific participation of the Training Coordinator. Again, full power to the owner, with no provision for the educational criteria of the program. Apart from that, there is absolutely no regulation, even fundamental, to ensure the rational coverage of the respective needs, without abusive practices at the expense of the staff. We shall proceed to Article 4. We have no surprise here. The rules of procedure shall be drawn up by the school, i.e. by the owner and simply notified to the Director of Education. He is entitled to refer him back only if he is contrary to an explicit provision of law. There is no provision, of course, for the participation of the school club in the drafting of the regulation. The educational and pedagogical criteria again depend on the individual will of ownership. Let's come to Article 5. This is where our introductory 'legislator' is being sanitary. It puts a title in the article: "Obligations of the owner" and in the text states that he may attend any meeting of the teachers' club if he is an instructor. Here is another characteristic example of the incompleteness of the institutions. But let us also talk about the substance. Even if he is himself and an educator, his undeniable dominant status is that of the owner. So what feasibility, then, can its participation be served? Everyone, and those who agree, and those who disagree with the provision, have a common place: The presence of the owner will affect the decision-making process by the collective body. That is what you want us to legislate about, the improperness of the autonomous and unaffected operation of the teachers' club. I don't have to add anything else here. Article 6, entitled ‘Using of premises’. Here it is foreseen that the buildings and other infrastructure of private schools can be used for the provision of other services, even for the accommodation and accommodation of young people up to 25 years old and for their escorts, with a view to organising and organising educational entertainment or sports activities and at the same time to provide accommodation for them. It is a good thing that these will be done in times other than teaching days. For all these actions, it shall be sufficient to notify the relevant training department. This is where the expansion of the business activity of private schools and non-educational objects is very much institutionalised. Apart from schools, foreign languages, etc., they will compete even with hotels, camps and everything else. In order to legitimise and ensure the work of staff on a different subject and beyond the limits of educational employment, the legislator shall ensure that specific wording is included in Article 3 that the employment of workers in these cases is legal. In other words, it admits that it is not legal, which is why it only legalizes it. From Article 7 I am going to pay particular attention to the last proposal. It is possible not to re-inscribe a student at school in the event of a two-year-old non-paid tuition. In other words, the student will not be re-inscribed at school, even if there is only a partial reimbursement due. So the legislator himself here tells us that, according to his own priority in private education, the freight side prevails in teaching. A overthrow of the student's educational course is being introduced and a school environment is being imposed on the child, due to the remaining debt of his parents toward the school. For an economic difference, that is, civil law, injurious law, the legislator pledges the child. It seems that he is not enough with legal and judicial means to claim the satisfaction of the school. The lawmaker does not want the child to continue and the debts of the parents to be claimed as provided for in the law. What more disediment could you imagine? I am bound to return to my initial finding. This bill is abusive and only presented as a bill by the Ministry of Education. In Article 8, the framework for the selection and placement of directors and Deputy Directors in private schools is supposed to be set out. It is pointless to look for criteria or conditions. The golden rule of our 'legislator' is followed. Everything depends on the will of his owner. Who will, therefore, set the necessary and clear assessment criteria, depending on those of the directors and deputy directors of public schools? It will be interesting for the author of the bill to explain it to us. Why is it possible for the coordinate state to judge that there is no need for criteria for managers in private education? We move on with the legacy that continues in the same direction. Free and unlimited dismissals of teachers at the exclusive will of the owner, without any institutional guarantee of its legality or misuse, with only reference to the court bells. Good thing the legislator didn't try to rule out court control. It is obvious, however, that it is completely indifferent to the effects of such predictions on the educational process. Another step is the voluntary reduction in employment and remuneration of staff. What will voluntary, Minister? I asked you again in committee. You are pretending to ignore dependency relationships developed in employment based on the needs of each of us's survival. This 'voluntary' is, you will allow me to say, unacceptable hypocrisy and to highlight the audacity of this particular legislature. A characteristic of the one-sidedness of this bill is the issue of foreign language education. You are condemning an entire professional and entrepreneurial class, since you impose conditions on it of inexorable, unfair and unequal competition. So we come back here to our initial conclusion. Legislate targeted, despising the heavy and inappropriate costs in society. Finally, why do investors and entrepreneurs in private schools deserve this privileged legislative treatment and not entrepreneurs in care centres, foreign language centres, lifelong learning centres? They also participate in the free economy system. How, then, does your famous liberalism justify state intervention at their expense? You inaugurate the possibility of additional business activities in private schools and add a default competitor to the field of business activities of all the others. And whoever can handle it. However, even within the framework of private schools themselves, unequal conditions of competition have been introduced. The small private schools - obviously you know that - will not be able to cope with the conditions of this complete liberalisation in the face of the potential of large educational groups. Needless to say, for obvious reasons of principle, there is no possibility for us to vote against the bill. In closing, Minister, I will raise the question of restoring the injustice of the undetermined educational instruction of the SAP 3P/2008 and you will allow me to say that I will not get tired of coming back as long as I am in this Parliament until this flagrant injustice that lasts eleven years is restored. Minister, I am sure you know that this injustice on the part of the state is obvious. Its illegality, by omission and going to the next, has been irrevocably judged by court decisions, with the last Council of State, the number 216/2019 of the Section, which annulled it under number F3621/232/95221/D1/23-8-2011 by FEC C'188 decision of the Minister of Education that had omitted them. Rehabilitation is, politically and morally, a one-way road and has to do with imposing respect on the state in judicial decisions. You know that I have tabled this amendment, which does not raise any question of unconstitutionality, as you said last time, when I had tabled it to you, and I would ask you to respond as you should and accept it. Remember what you said on 8-1-2019, that we appoint the judicial judges of the 2008 AACC competition. These people are left unjustly outside, and you're going to have to restore them. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, too. I invite Mrs Sophia - Iido Asmakopoulou to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most important periods of our lives is that which is linked to our schooling. The rich experiences and various supplies, which he offers us, forming a second spiritual home, are crucial for the development of our personality and for our further development as adults. That is why the attention we need to pay, when we talk about modernising it, is of major importance, whether it is about private or public school. Education is combined, not only with knowledge and virtues, but also with a constant demand to cultivate national consciousness. Modern school should constantly try to modernise its methods, become more attractive and interesting, especially to bring the student in touch with the reality of it. Key objectives should be creative learning, culture of critical capacity, the development of students' interests and competences. The use of all sectors of the economy is very important for growth and quality education makes a significant contribution to it. Particularly important, of course, is the contribution of teachers and teachers to the educational process. They are those who guide the students, who are their support throughout school life. That is why their assessment is crucial. The way in which the assessment of private schools is made in accordance with public law and with the possibility of applying additional criteria from private schools requires clarification. Undoubtedly, teachers must be distinguished from responsibility and conscientiousness, have knowledge and scientific training, which will be constantly enriched, transformed into traditional values, promote standards and ideals. Their goal, in the end, is to make the students better than them. The quality of the education process is therefore essential to monitor, assess and evaluate. We in the Greek Solution, acknowledging the importance of evaluation, have proposed the establishment of an evaluation and control system for teachers. The number of private schools in operation from private kindergartens and primary school to high school is really important. It is reasonable for each of them to set their own extra objectives and on the basis of them to formulate their own evaluation criteria. However, should it not be communicated by the private school director to the relevant training director from the outset, just like the school's internal rules of operation? We see that flexibility is provided in the organisation and programme of private schools. The necessity of the Greek-centered learning method must of course be a one-way road. The rules of procedure are a regulation that is legitimate in the context of the school's internal organisation, which will be controlled at the level of legality. As far as the owner's obligations are concerned, there is a serious matter and that is none other than the following: who can be the owner? We have mentioned this at committee meetings, but you have not yet made it clear to us. And we come again to ask: will they be NGOs or foreigners with interests directed against the nation? This is very important and must be answered. With regard to the arrangement that the opportunity to participate in the training club meetings extends to members, partners and shareholders of the legal person of the owner, provided that they are teachers, is next and contributes to the first hand knowledge of the school's issues and objectives by the owner. Both the utilization of buildings for activities outside teaching hours or teaching days for the provision of services and the regulation providing for the widening of the possibility of student rewriters are positive steps. In particular, the possibility of private school relocations in public schools and vice versa seems to simplify the process and reduce bureaucracy. In addition to the possibility of more sub-directors being able to do better and more efficiently sharing of tasks, it is moving positively. As regards the employment of teachers, we ask for clarification in the part concerning whether and how much reduction in the appointment hours will be agreed in the office. Will it be pre-agreed, or will it be forced to reduce unilaterally the remuneration by the owner? As far as public works contracts are concerned, they will be subject to the provisions of the common legislation, but at the same time further guarantees will be introduced. On these guarantees, however, we want to make their framework clearer. As regards the replacement of the alternate, it is not clear whether this replacement will take place at his own discretion. The terms and conditions of the replacement do not arise. Similarly, they are not cleared in the next article on the expansion of the activity and in a school unit of another grade. Another bracelet in the draft is the absence of identification of the nationality of foreign teachers. Will you bring us Turks and Skopje to private schools? And the Greek teachers, why are they not preferred? Do you expect us again to tell you how many thousands of undetermined Greek teachers are? The strengthening of special courses is moving in the right direction. It is not one and two Greek students who are unable to respond to the costs of care. It's sad to see great minds lost and the state doesn't help them achieve their goals and goals. The operation of the Environmental Education Centres in the school year 2020-2021 as developed in Article 15 seems to be of a procedural nature. With regard to the issues of homogenous schools of Constantinople and Greek High School - Impros High School, the recognition of their qualifications and the equivalence to the graduations of high school and high school of the country is welcome, provided, of course, that it is ensured that it goes hand in hand with the corresponding material of the Greek schools. Prior recruitment of teachers with certified knowledge of Braille in schools where blind students are studying was indeed necessary to adjust. Blind disciples have increased needs and, of course, such an arrangement can only be dealt with positively. The provision of equal opportunities to education and for them is central. Measures to ensure the particular needs of these pupils, as well as the conditions for the successful implementation of the educational process, should have been self-evident for decades. A new period of 12 months has been set since the entry into force of the Act on the Opening of the Rules of Procedure of the Institute of Computers and Publications, mainly a procedural issue, by joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministers for Finance, Education and Religious Affairs and Home Affairs, of course. It is also important to regulate the registration of well-paid teachers, career advisors and psychologists from the second chance schools. You must not forget, however, the other problems that these schools face and which must be regulated. Article 20 is an absolute pretext. A rapid residence permit will be issued to foreigners who will be able to attend private schools, colleges and IEKs. What does that really mean? We are once again leading to another way of obtaining citizenship. This must not be done for any residence. You make it easier for them with your residence permit. Really, unheard of. And, of course, the third countries and schools to which they will be able to attend are not specified. It's an undisturbed vine. Better regulation of distance education in all schools should have been launched. You put and reinstated teachers in the Central Committee of Inquiry of the State of Language Certificate, no one is complaining. In Article 23, in particular with regard to the new two-year contracts to be signed in 2021, why are they converted into an indefinite period of time? Why would you introduce this unequal treatment? The lack of a single educational policy leads to frequent reforms. Every time the government changes, we have changes, small or large, in education. Everything is sacrificed on the altar of reform. Do not cut young people off from the ancient Greek language tradition and our history. This is how their linguistic and historical continuity and evolution are lost. In particular, ancient Greeks are the womb of our modern Greek language and it is a huge mistake to confuse them. The language each nation has shaped has been and is the axis around which national life turns. It is a catalyst for the role of education in the formation of a good national conscience. The education and the great work produced in school halls should serve the goals of our country. Zero cosmopolitanism does not lead anywhere. Education doesn't nurture young people with the elements of our idiosyncrasy. The unreasonable adoption of foreign cultural elements poses risks to our national identity. So it is necessary, perhaps more than ever, that the educational process contributes to the formation of our national identity, the promotion of the values of the nation and the strengthening of the feeling of maintaining our national freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much. May I invite the President of Greek Solution, Mr. Velopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin and believe in the end that we are the only party, which has another philosophy of education. Our view is that we should invest in education and invest in things rather than in theory. I think that our education has been repudiated for seventy years by incubators, from the uterus of politicians in the various universities, who have never been interested in learning, but have wanted to learn more about either trample or create problems in learning the rest of their fellow students. Look, we have a perception that education can become an economic instrument, Minister. Really, an economic tool. Our model is Cyprus, Great Britain and many other countries where private education is a specific pillar of economic development. You know, I'm troubled by a fact that's undeniable. We don't understand in here that many Greek girls study abroad, which means foreign exchange outflow and at the same time, when you have an outflow and you can't attract other students from other countries, you have an overall deficit in your economy. Unfortunately, the left, because it has a hegemony perception of a pseudo-educational ideology, has imposed the non-delimitation of specific rules as a whole in education, but mainly in private education. Our aim, I would say, is to equate the quality of knowledge, but upwards to public school and private school. Not to create a private education so that public education can be brought down, but the Minister, the state, the government, can create all the conditions so that public education and the private can resurrect. You know, ladies and gentlemen, the dream of many young people in our time about diplomas or diploma dreams is a nightmare of unemployment. And this is the pity that PASOK has done since 1981 and then New Democracy before and later, that it has not connected education to work. We've been getting graduates all the time, we've taken kids with postgraduate and doctoral. We didn't create that infrastructure so they could assimilate, get them produced and use them. So we see thirty-five years old, forty people having two - three degrees and being unemployed. Because the state's obligation is not only to have free public or private education, it is also to link education to production and work. No government ever did. None, not at all. And I say it, so some people can figure it out in here. We have to decide what we want in this country. Honestly, Minister, your bill is a little ambiguous. Legislation in government Fast Truck over the last few weeks. I understand, you want to go on vacation. But why would you go on vacation? To work in August. I don't understand? Ama, it's about education. Why not? It bothers me that we take it so lightly. Education is the cornerstone of a society. This bill should have been discussed for weeks and, above all, the Left which is always missing, since it is so cut for education, should have been all here. All of them! And everyone else. We are talking about the future of our children now, about Greece's tomorrow! And we're a few, about twenty. I'm saying, to understand that some things happen in the leg. Madam Minister, I was expecting New Democracy with a reformist view to present me with a draft law, where there will be new schools of the future. You, with the specific structure of universities with the old school culture, create a bill. Change the schools. Make them better. Connect the draft law to the professions of the future. We no longer need lawyers, Greece is filled with lawyers and doctors. We need another kind of study. I'm not saying lawyers and doctors are unnecessary, but most people are unemployed. Thousands of lawyers are unemployed. Thousands of doctors are unemployed and go abroad and work. So what was the state supposed to do? Before further increasing the problem of finding out about decompression other schools and leading the children there. And there are such schools. For example, new technologies, information technology, botany - which our country does not have a university headquarters, really serious - food technology. Drive the kids there, because that's the future. Water quality, water.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u44	He's doing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u45	I'm telling you, we need to plan seriously. I am not saying whether he does or does not, Mr Levane. We'll see if he does. It's been - counting the day before - a hundred - seventy bills for education. Not you, it's been years. I'm not talking about taxation. Let's not talk about tax bills because the ball's gone. Does that mean what? That the last guy's been missing, and he's coming over to put a little bit of a liquor. Put a stone on it, she's an Arta's son-in-law. They're building it all day, at night it's falling apart. For Article 2, the additional evaluation criteria should be included in the Regulation. In Article 20, the decoupling of a residence with citizenship. You heard us. I have to say something. Does Mr. Villard have a weakness with the Undersecretary of Finance, who says he's listening to you? Mrs. Kerameau is listening. That's what I believe in. He's listening. He's one of the few ministers in the New Democracy listening. It's not, for example, Hatzidakis, who comes here and tell him something or you don't tell him it's like he doesn't listen to anything, he spends his time. The aim is to ferment, odour between parties, so that something good can come out. Even from the negative we can improve something. The composition is made by contrast. It's no different. And you know, the ideological hegemony of the left has led to a terrible tide in the New Democracy for many years. Afraid. I said it. We are in favour of the rational exploitation of education, such as Cyprus and Great Britain. And I say it, substantiating it on the left. We'll earn money, we'll have another pillar of development called knowledge and education. What's wrong with that? And it is not compulsory for all children to go to university, private university or private school. Of course, I do not understand the Left, nor the False Left, because they forget that we have built culture as Greeks, the ancient Greek culture, which we are all so cut off, Mr. Colleague, on the basis of private education. Private education was in ancient times. They were private teachers, they were paid, they weren't free. They were normally paid, not by the public. Oh, no. From the private! I'm not going to go into personal attacks. I never did it in my life, not in the year I'm here, and I'll never do it, believe me. In other words, how many of us send their children to private schools, how many left, how many fake left. I'll never do it. It's everyone's right to send his child where he wants. If he thinks public is a better school, he sends it to the public. If he thinks private is a better school in private. It's everyone's choice. But to cut myself off for the public school, but my child to send it - because I sent it to the private school - and to grumble to the government, to talk about public schools that it is not doing well and that I am against private people, there is a contradiction in the policy that I will not go in, nor will I mention - I repeat - names, because personal attacks will never do. You're also against private universities. I have a concern for private universities, how they can act as non-profit. We are talking about this, but most of the private universities abroad have studied. Most people in here or many in here - those who react, I'm not talking about those who don't react - studied abroad. There are many who react to private universities, see them as private education, but they themselves have studied in private universities abroad. I want us to understand, then, that when the world hears us, to be convincing, we have to understand the contradiction that is taking place here in this House. Children of the domestic politics and economic elite - as you can hear, whether on the left or on the centre - study outside and return to positions of authority. However, children of the Greek people are poor or moderate studying here and leaving abroad because they don't have a job. How honorable is that with our state? How right is it from our state? I ask you, the left, the right. Because for me there is neither left nor right, there is common sense and I stress that. From Velopoulos and from the Greek Solution never personal peaks. I could quote a lot and put myself in. Yeah, my daughter went to private school, at the university, went to a public university. I see their mess and it's one of the good universities where my daughter is studying at the "Democritus". It is one of the best, I believe, but there is a mess, because even trade union professors behave many times, depending on the party they vote for or support. And that's wrong. I'll give you an example. Because she is the daughter of Velopoulos, at the public university some teachers do not "go it". She tells me herself with complaints, but it doesn't matter, it's the idiosyncrasy of the teachers, it's the arrogance of power. Any power that has these things. Of course, I pass over all those who studied at the universities in London, Germany. And you, Mr. Villardo, in Germany and the left ones who studied in Germany, England, Italy or I don't know where, I get past it and I'm actually going. What's the point? Do we really want a Greek education? Do we want publicity to be competitive with private? We need to find a way. Do we want to bring money to our country so that private education can become a point of attraction, bring money to really develop? Cyprus, ladies and gentlemen, each year it increases its own GDP from private education by 5.5%. I read yesterday an article that Cyprus is growing through private education - thousands of Greeks studying there - its GDP. And you are obsessed, 'not private education, not private education'. Instead of saying 'yes to private education on conditional, prerequisites, with an organogram, with a plan', you say 'no'. The 'no' is dead. The composition wants to "yes" and improve the bad texts of any government, whether it is SYRIZA, whether it is KKE, whether it is a Greek Solution or a New Democracy. Let's go to the falsifications of the parties, because time is pressing. From the day before yesterday, deal with the Prime Minister's helicopters, if it's two or three. I don't know if it's two or three, but I know that "Radio Maximus" was working before. He called the other guy and said, "I want Falcon to go Puerto Rico..." - I say by chance - "... to go France". Unfortunately, that is the political morality of our policies, because when you take morals out of politics, that is what you create. Three helicopters for the main Prime Minister to go from Epidaurus, Antiparos, Paros, Naxos where he wants and uses the easiest way to do his job. Okay. The other guy came out and took Falcon, went to Paris, saw Rochaild. These suggest that if you remove morality from politics and hypocrisy, then there is a real problem. I mean, stop pretending. You're both the same. And, of course, you disagree with the minors, because most of you agree with the major ones. In Skopje the New Democracy agrees with you, in the economy you have no differentiations. In all this, it seems that the bourgeois behavior of many of our politicians for power leads them to taxi the helicopter. That's a bulial conduct of political power. The Minister of National Defence used to drive, Mr. Kammenos, the helicopter. Go Pentagon - Voula, Vari - Voula - Vouliagmeni, go Piraeus. You know, we're smiling in here, but they're real things that have to go away. Proof that the Prime Minister needed the helicopter to go to Epidaurus to go to Antiparos? Was it based on logic that he needed it? If he needed it, take it. If he did not need it, I would be the last person to talk to him and I would applaud him - even if the Prime Minister was called Tsipras or Mitsotakis - if he took a private helicopter and paid three, four grand, but from his pocket. But these are turning the citizen away from politics. I sincerely say directly - and I will say it again - that the bourgeoisie, the bourgeoisie of hunger, leads you to the wrong choices of all of you. "Radio Maximo" was called and called Maximo. That's the truth. Don't be fooled! And finally, let's tell the truth to the Greek people. fairy tales collapse slowly, unfortunately for the New Democracy. From the Recovery Fund, we will have a net balance of EUR 6.42 billion. You know what, gentlemen? If you have such friends, what do you want with the enemies? You told us about 750 billion, we'd get free grants. Eventually 6,42. They're falling apart, and I'm afraid your story will collapse from October. It's not easy. With reduced tourist revenues, budget deficits will all collapse together. And when I say all of them together! And when I say 'all together', I mean all together! Why fear the hungry people, fear the one who has nothing to lose because he is hungry. Don't be afraid of the grass. But the Greek of the vegetarian is hungry, so I'm afraid of him for what's coming. And I warn you: we need to find a way, so that the Greek economy can finally resuscitate. You have it clinically intubated, unfortunately. You're only dealing with numbers and not with the substance. And that's the problem. And recovery of the economy means organization, productive reconstruction, new structures, new designs to produce wealth. You didn't. I have proposed this to the Minister, Mr. Voridis, to the Prime Minister. I told him to sit down and put experts to help him produce wealth. You went and gave three thousand acres - Voridis did it symptomaticly - for photovoltaics to a great little ruler in Thessaly. He bought three thousand acres to put photovoltaics on, and this little man eats and drinks with him every day. This is not happening in a serious country. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You don't know? Don't you know who he is, Minister? That's an easy name. And electorally, when you were government, you found him. It's from the Piraeus side. And the little man is doing his job. It's not bad. He's a very small man, his job will be done by man. It's not bad for him to do his job. But being politicians or politicians or a party, or we or the others in whatever choices of the ol'arch, something is wrong. Instead of starting to cultivate Thessaly - wheat do you want, fruit and vegetables? - to feed all Europe, go and put photovoltaics in three thousand acres. Christ and God bless you! And you bring a bill specially cut and sewn for this investment. And I don't care about the oligarch. The Mytileneus is doing business, the Copeluzo is doing business, Marinakis is doing business. They're specific people, guys. The time of Bobola, which we were accusing, and Lambraki, is gone, and the time has come for the new oligarchs in our country, which you are begging yourselves. And I don't know why you're suffocating them, what's the point. Madam Minister, it's not just your responsibility. I'd like you to do something. Because we are intense with Turkey, those two mosques you gave Kos and Rhodes, which you made a mistake, pull them back. You can. You're a government, aren't you? As they made Agia Sophia, these mosques, you make the mosques not to function yet. Freeze them. You went to the Botanic and gave you a million euros while Turkey's escalating. I say don't give it up. You're the ones who give it up. You don't have a problem. I, of course, disagree. Freeze the Botanic, however, so that the Botanic doesn't open in September. Do something for Greece. There's another issue about the Valide mosque. The CEO in Lesvo disagrees. Don't do it. The District Lord disagrees, the local ruler. And because you are responsible for mosques, Minister - and I sincerely want to be a little serious - I will say this: it is not possible for the Turks to call for union, consensus, national unity and for us to make mistakes all the time. We give them the ball and they score on their own. Get the ball! Autogol. Oh, no. We freeze everything until Turk, the fascist Erdogan, the Nazi Erdogan. I was also one of the first to applaud the Thrace committee. Now they have a vote upstairs. I have a question, ladies and gentlemen. Why are three presidents, vice presidents, secretaries from Athens, Mr. Kastanides? Mr. Katrugalos, Mr. Loverdos, Mrs. Bakoyannis. Couldn't we get a Thracian? Mr. Stylianides, let's say. Why did Athenians have to enter? Does the Athenian-centric state even have to be in the issues of Thrace? I don't get it. On matters of Macedonia, Thrace, why should the Athenian-centered state have its own representatives only and should we not have a north-easterly, my child? One! I don't want many! One! And symptoms all were former Foreign Ministers. Listen to the crime we've been committing for decades. On Thrace, we had responsibility for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is an internal matter and has nothing to do with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. All three foreigners. If I'm wrong, I'm really sorry. But will people from Kolonaki and Athens, and from Voula and Vari, and from Vouliagmeni and Varkiza, and from the northern suburbs, be involved in the issues of Thrace? We have people. And here I wonder why the Athenian state continues to work, my Minister. Even now you're working at the Athenian center. And this bitterness of the region I understand, I can hear it. Don't you hear her? To close, I'd like to say something Victor Hugo was saying, a great form. I imagine you all know him. So he wrote in a notebook, which remained in history: "Turks are Turks. Nothing connects them to the values of humanism. They're wild imperialists. They want to conquer, dominate, dominate and exploit the other nations. They have never respected the dignity of foreigners." And we are still insisting on the obsessed false argument of resentment, 'we will find them', 'we will have a dialogue'! Some New Democracy MPs come out and talk strangely about dialogue. And I wonder: Dialogue with Erdogan saying, "Come and have a dialogue to get you half yours"? What kind of dialogue is that? And I'll tell the government something. The great Eleftherios Venizelos, this great leading figure, do you know why he was a leader, with his mistakes? He made mistakes, too. Because if there's a politician who hasn't made mistakes, then it's God. This great man had an advantage, which no one has in here unfortunately, only Zuraris can have: he had understood two basic things. Firstly, that with Germany you cannot be a friend - it was understood - and, secondly, it knew what foreign policy means. But why? Because he had himself done a performance of Thucydides. Am I wrong, Mr. Castanides? He did the Thucydides performance, which means he studied it. Every Minister or every Member of Parliament must read Thucidis, especially the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That's why Venizelos was drunk, with his mistakes, because he also made mistakes. I'll say this to make it clear: Henry Kissinger said something a week ago. I don't know if you read it, Minister. He said that whoever controls the Mediterranean - he repeated it was old - defines the world all. Listen to what Henry Kisinger said, the US foreign policy patron, worldwide: Whoever controls the Mediterranean is controlling and determining the whole world! And only this rhetoric upgrades our country geostrategically, economically and geopolitically. But, nationally, we're on our own. That is something we should be clear about. No Merkel, no Putin, no Trump, no McCron will help us if we alone do not realize that we are alone and can fight. And when I say "fights", I mean economics. I don't only mean the warships, which, if necessary, we'll give. And I wonder about New Democracy who left McCron and France. And that is a matter that I raised with the Prime Minister, but I will not say what he said to me, because it was a personal conversation. That is why I sometimes say that we cannot talk about everything. I therefore wonder with the New Democracy that canceled the frenches and turned its back on France, the only country that has equal interests with Greece. I could never understand it. He did it with an alibi in retrospectives for retired people. Allith! This is the alibi of the New Democracy, that, because there are retrospectives, we cannot take French frigates. Do you know which France we're talking about? For France, which is the second economy of the European Union, a permanent member of the UN Security Council, a nuclear force and has a conventional army. Because some people say about Germany. You're wrong, Germany doesn't have an army. France also has an army, so it is stronger than Germany, because it is not just the economy, as Thucydides said, to impose my political and economic authority, I must have a military force. I'm interpreting him. That's what he said. Without military power, you can't be politically imposed. Whatever Germany says, it doesn't have an army. And to say the best, friends and friends: France with its language has influence in Africa as well. It has many African countries under its umbrella. I'm saying that because we're wrong. We're wrong! I'm starting to think there's a caragio player over there, like the string, who moves the strings and wants to lead us into the Aegean. Where a "carago player" is, I think it is Germany and Merkel. And I say it to you. Shadow theatre between Turkey and Greece - I will not say Prime Ministers or Presidents - supposedly heels and controversies to draw to a debate without substance. Yesterday the Minister raised them with the issue of Crete. Yesterday afternoon they also raised the issue of Crete, to discuss Crete. In the end, we will discuss the Greek Parliament! We'll talk about the Colonaki for the Constitution. They're asking for ten to get both! Hellas doesn't claim anything, she's not asking for anything. You will raise the issue of Imbros and Tenedos, Greek compensation for the years '55-65, the self-governed Imbros and Tenedos and the withdrawal of Turkish occupation troops from Cyprus, to consider whether we will have a dialogue. First become 'good kids'! And because you control the means - and you do well, it is your right - in the New Democracy you have achieved it, for the first time this party controls the means, indirectly, not directly, I am not saying that they are yours, but "Help Mitsotakis" the next day! We are all told of the 'ORUC REIS'. Where are they, ladies and gentlemen? Why doesn't someone say where the BAROS is? Tell me about it! Does anyone know in here? I would like to hear the parliamentary representative tell me where BAROS is right now. Where is the YAVUZ? Does anyone know? Why do the media hide it? Why do Greek media hide the existence of two other research ships, YAVUZ and BAROS, south of Cyprus? Tell me about it! Can I talk to you? For Cyprus lies far away even now, while there is the single defence doctrine established by Andreas Papandreou and you canceled all the others. So you are all talking about "ORUC REIS", while there are still two research ships that perish in Cyprus EEZ, Greek for me, because for me Cyprus is Greece, just like the Northern Continent is Greece. Where there is Hellenism, we have to protect the Greeks there. I repeat, geoculturally! And yet no one's talking about it. Where is he? Tell me about it! You are all talking about ORUC REIS, as if you have agreed with Turkey - I am not saying that you agreed - or that Germany tells you to talk about it, because that is still anchored in Antalya. And I won't say about Mr. Panayotopoulos' NAVTEX. I won't say, 'cause I want to go. And because you may not know where "YAVUZ" and "AROS" are, I show you the exact map, to see that they are just southwest of Cyprus, near the Greek EEZ. But no one talks! Nobody's talking in here! Nobody! Everyone is talking about 'ORUC REIS'. 'YAVUZ' and 'BAROS' go around. And I come to the bad news. Have you learned the bad news about Albania, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, which you put them into the European Union, since you did not veto, and they also get money? Did you hear? Yesterday they made a military deal with Turkey to take weapons systems from Turkey! Albanians ungrateful! Because they're ungrateful! It is not enough that they oppress and violate the rights of the Greek minority that has been there for centuries, what have they done yesterday? They're signing with Erdogan not just for bases - no! - but take weapons systems from Ankara. Of course, trying to make the blue country, Mr Erdogan forgets that for the Greeks there is a blue color, the "blue" Greece! The "Blue" Greece! Whatever it says, the "blue" Greece will be here! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] As far as the Botanic is concerned, I expect the Minister. And I come to something last. I don't know if you've learned it, but the Virgin Mary and Agia Sophia Bankou, from Pontos, dear colleague, are turned into mosques with a violent Islam from yesterday. Not only our Agia Sophia, but with Erdogan's decision, even the Holy Sommela and the Agia Sophia Bankou are turned into mosques. So I call on the Minister in Kos and Rhodes the mosques "frozen", on the Botanic "frozen", on Lesvos "frozen", to end the story. And the 1 million euro don't give it to you, Minister, for the mosque in the Botanic to end the story! Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing here by telling the New Democracy to get the messages from Saudi Arabia. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, Saudi Arabia, its state media, can not make advertising for an embargo on Turkish products, and even now the New Democracy has done nothing to impose countermeasures on the Turkish economy that is collapsed. In the Turkish economy there are only 21 billion left! 21 billion! Do you understand? The liquidity they have is 21 billion. That's what's left of it! The pound's 1 to 8! Do you understand? If we hit them there, Erdogan will kneel! Saudi Arabia also came out, and the enthusiasm, and the poor, and all its citizens, an embargo against Turkey - the Sudanese is Saudi Arabia, the Sunni and Turkey - so that neither travel can go there nor trade. And we still go on taking clothes from Turkish textiles, taking things from Turkey, and not doing the self-evident thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u46	Please conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u47	Yes, Mr. President, I'm ending. If we don't change, Greece won't change. If we don't make a move, we won't win anything. In the Soviet, fascist, nazi measures that Turkey takes against us, we will respond with Greek economic measures, with countermeasures so that we can respond to the problem. I imagine you've heard what happened with Malta. Malta, guys! Who? Malta, Minister! Malta now that we are talking is doing joint exercises with Turkey! Malta, ladies and gentlemen! Malta! That state's pussy! Malta! And I call it "doll" because she's too small! Yes, they do common Turkish - hairdressing, hairdressing exercises now that we're talking! This is our country's proud foreign policy! Rejoice her! If you can't, listen to us! You must listen to us, all their parties and proposals. And you should finally make a council of political leaders, as Mr Anastasiades has done today. Honestly, I don't understand why the Prime Minister avoids it. Today Cyprus has convened a council of political leaders with Mr Anastasiades. The Prime Minister renounces it stubbornly. Do not make the mistake and lead us to dialogue with Turkey without council of political leaders, because after the betrayal of Macedonia, the betrayal of the Aegean and Kastelorizos is followed. For us Kastelorizo is Greece and is close, it is not far!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as is the case, on 27-7-2020, for criminal law relating to the former Minister of Shipping Georgios Vulgarakis. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Lebanese, has requested the floor for a short speech. Here, Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, I have only asked for the floor for two minutes to speak on the issues raised by Mr Velopoulos outside the debate on the bill. I'd like to start with the last part. As far as we were all aware, Mr. Velopoulos, at your meeting with the Prime Minister, you were fully informed of developments in the Aegean Sea. I did not understand and we did not understand that you had any substantial and great disagreement. The Greek people have seen and been convinced that our national policy is coordinated and multidimensional and is currently bringing results on all fronts in relation to Turkish provocation, whether on the issue of Agia Sophia or on NAVTEX in Kastelorizo. We always pursue dialogue with our neighbours and peace in the region. This is a permanent position of our country with all the Greek governments. Obviously, at this time of challenging Turkey there can be no dialogue, so don't put it at this level and leave the doubts about the Greek people and confuse them. Obviously, it is not possible to enter into a dialogue at the moment. When the time comes for dialogue on the basis of international law, this will be the only difference we have with the neighbour who is the continent. As regards the part of Greece's readiness, I think that has become clear in recent months. We are always prepared. The work that is done, without appearing on publicity, is coordinated. It appeared to Evros in the Aegean Sea. We've seen how the Greek Armed Forces are moving. We have said so before in this Chamber, and the Prime Minister has said so, if necessary, that we will defend by every means every inch of Greek land and sea. With regard to our wider policy in the Mediterranean, the multidimensional activity of the government, the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister already brings results. We saw the position of the Spanish Foreign Minister yesterday in Turkey and the problems he created there. Today, the Spanish Minister for Foreign Affairs is in Greece and talks with Kyriakos Mitsotakis on the issues of the Mediterranean and, of course, on the issues of growth following the Koroni crisis, as you rightly said, as the economic issues are fully linked to foreign policy. Our aim is not to destroy Turkey economically. Our aim is to demonstrate that Erdogan's attempt to drive out Turkey's secular character and that it is wrong to aggress towards Europe itself. Our aim is to convince international public opinion - and we are doing so - that these issues are unacceptable to the whole of Western civilization and are not just Greek-Turkish differences. As far as the deficit is concerned, this bad news confirms the position of the Minister of Finance many times in here, which had received a hard reaction from both SYRIZA and Mr Varoufakis, who told him to give all the money ahead. This crisis is a great, unprecedented crisis and we do not know where it will lead. That is why the coordinated effort of the Minister of Finance, the government as a whole and the Prime Minister always proves to be wise. We certainly need - and you are right in this - an organised plan, as you said, for the productive reconstruction and recovery of the Greek economy. But that is exactly what the government plans, and in this direction are the proposals of the Pissaridis Committee. In this direction is the public debate that we are also inaugurating and in this direction, of course, we are waiting for the proposals of all the parties for this joint effort. As far as this part you were suggesting - which no one knew in this House contains a scandal smell, as you said - for an investment in Thessaly, the government intends to lead the part of lignite rehab. The government's intention is to run forward and create green Greece as a pioneer in Europe. The government's intention, obviously, is to strengthen energy production in other ways, except for traditional polluting atmospheres. This does not mean, of course, that we do not want, at the same time, to strengthen Greek production in our agricultural products, to support the Greek farmer and to make him an entrepreneur so that, apart from production, he can also enter the exploitation of his products in the secondary sector and support not only agricultural production, but also all regional development through it. Finally, I should like to close with what you mentioned, which I think is not appropriate to your political speech, which is usually a political one. Obviously we have nothing to do with SYRIZA, and it is obviously not Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis' permanent position since he first entered policy in how he manages the public property, the public goods, which he has at his disposal. He is a very serious and dignified politician. He showed it from the first moment, as I said, that he entered the Greek Parliament. He had to do two attendances during the weekend. In the first, he went to Paros with the plane of the line, where he met, perhaps with the top international actress and handed the Greek passport to him. These images have made the round of the world and it is the best campaign that could think and do anyone for our country and our tourism this year in such a difficult time. Then there was the initiative of being present at Epidaurus in such an important performance of Aishlou, which has this dimension of cultural diplomacy, cultural development for Greece, again in this particular climate. I think we realize there was no other way than using a helicopter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u50	He was being broadcast all over the world!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u51	That's right, Mrs. Pipili. He was broadcast live all over the world at that time, so his presence was important. We won't get carried into this comparison. We all remember the use of public media by SYRIZA government officials. There is no one in our government. The opposite exists. There is absolute respect for the measure and absolute respect for every euro taxpayer Greek citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u52	Mr Velopoulos has asked for the floor. I will give you the floor with the request, Mr President, to close this matter, because on the one hand the views have been heard and the world has come to its conclusion. There is a warm request to be as brief as possible. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u53	Mr Lebanese is very noble, so I don't have to raise the tons. I'm just going to give some explanations. I never said I agreed with the Prime Minister. I said that the Greeks are the strongest walls than any wall and we need national unity. What I told the Prime Minister I didn't say in public. I tabled my proposals in writing to the Greek Prime Minister. So where we agree, or where we disagree better not to say so, because you prejudge the position of the Greek Solution. I did not say 'I agree'. We agree on national confession, yes. I imagine we all agree on that. It is not only the Greek solution that can agree. Also, a dialogue on dialogue, your fellow Members say so on the channels. I heard with my ears yesterday about dialogue, not a continental shelf that you say. In the end, Mr Levane, why do you have a dialogue? Do AEZ with Cyprus. You don't have to. Make an EEZ with Cyprus and end the "colleague". And of course, here I disagree with you. The aim of the Greek Government should be to bankrupt Turkey. Are you serious? In a hostile Turkey that makes mosques, even now the Holy Sumella? That must be our goal. Our goal is to hit her where it hurts and it's her economy. Since militaryly we do not want and must not war against us, that is to say, we will strike where we need to, with countermeasures in Turkey. You must have the wrong idea. Of course, we insist on the board of political leaders. We don't change our minds because the moments are very critical. The little Cyprus, the sister of Cyprus to hold a council and not to us? As far as the deficit is concerned, you are probably wrong, Mr Lebanese. The deficit comes from the fact that you have not heard us and SYRIZA and Mr Varoufakis. That's the truth. The deficit comes from the consumption that did not exist. If you're looking for it financially, you'll see that that's why Varoufakis said - and we're with Mr. Villardo in particular - that we have to give money to the market to move the economy. SYRIZA was right at the time when he said that if we gave it, we wouldn't have had the deficit now. We did not give the market money, there was no consumer power, so that we had the deficits. In conclusion, of course, I did not say any scandal. You said about the scandal in Thessaly. I said that the businessman is making an investment in 3,000 acres and where I can cultivate on the mother Greek land, he will put iron and photovoltaics on me. I have another perception. As for the impoverishment, the Prime Minister also said that he was closing the units in Kosani, so that the German companies could work. I didn't say that. He said it. He said: "For German companies to work," to the Germans to work. I don't want the liberation. Close, like Poland and Germany, in 2038. Why should we turn it off now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u54	And now we're going to go into the list of Members of Parliament. I would just like to say that forty-eight Members have been registered. As you can see - and you will then see - there are talks of political leaders, parliamentary representatives, Madam Minister, State Secretary, etc. Therefore, there is a warm request to keep the time of seven minutes. I call on the Prime Minister of the New Democracy, Mr Athanasio Ljupi. Here, Mr. Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I begin with the self-evident: private education is under the supervision of the State, as defined in the Constitution. However, this does not mean, under any circumstances, that the State must intervene suffocately in all matters of private education. Those who prefer strong statism to the issues of private schools put forward insufficient arguments in favour of the choices made by the previous government. This is because no improvement has been achieved, but only unjustified restriction has been noted. Today's bill gives private education the freedom of movement needed to evolve, always within the limits of legality. The first major change brought about by the draft law is the introduction of the evaluation, with a minimum of the corresponding assessment made in the public schools. One cannot stand up to logic and there are no arguments why there should be no evaluation in private schools. Private schools have to follow the timetable set by the Ministry of Education. However, they are again able to offer additional educational services outside the extended timetable, such as supporting teaching and more foreign languages. Teachers in these additional courses are normally paid for their additional hours of work. An important expansion of the services provided is the organization of activities for students in the afternoon hours, weekends or holiday seasons. And in this case teachers will receive an extra pay for their work beyond the hour. Private schools will now be able to join foreign schools, lifelong learning centres and foreign language centres. The restrictions that had been introduced in these arrangements were once again anachronistic. He is freed from the possibility of defining the school as one or more assistant directors according to how he will assess his needs. In any case, the Director of Education is only entitled to exercise legal control over the choice of the Director and the Deputy Director, i.e. to examine whether and whether the quality criteria of the law are met. Most of the reactions have emerged in relation to teachers' work relations. The opportunity is introduced to ask teachers themselves to have reduced working hours. At this point I would stress that the classic argument that the entrepreneur can in this way force teachers to declare reduced working hours and be fully concerned with them is unreasonable. That can happen anyway in every operation. That is why there are control mechanisms in order to see whether or not labour legislation is respected and, in the event of infringements, the relevant fines are imposed. The previous government chose another way to protect teachers. It made it compulsory to conclude fixedterm employment contracts for a period of two years. With today's provisions, teachers are recruited from the outset by contracts of indefinite duration, i.e. the employment relationship between teachers and school begins in the logic of stable long-term cooperation without a specific expiry horizon. In addition, every undertaking with a worthwhile worker is obviously seeking to continue cooperation between them. In fact, in order to protect teachers from abuse of dismissal, the legislature clearly adds the obligation of judges to examine any unfair employer reaction to legal conduct of teachers. From the other provisions of the bill, the teaching of special courses examined at a pan-Hellenic level applies to students in the Third High School. To date for these extra special courses, such as foreign languages, music and design, parents paid tutorial courses for their children, as they were not taught in schools. Also, a seemingly small addition, but in fact very important for the sensitivity with which we are dealing with education and children with disabilities is this: In schools where students are studying blind and deaf, teachers will now be appointed first and foremost with certified knowledge of Braille and Sign language. Thus, these children will have skilled teachers, which allows them to attend schools where they interact with students without hearing and vision problems. Finally, a little mention, Minister, in Article 29, of an issue that we had raised to you some time ago. You are very satisfied with the fair request of teachers and lecturers in universities to exclude from the retention 7% in favour of the PPE the incomes obtained from academic activity and not from their business activity. Only one clarification on this point, Minister: If the amendment includes, takes on board and excludes from the retention and pay of university doctors and other scientists collected from public hospitals from carrying out clinical work, as well as from their participation in the full-day operation of hospitals for medical visits or practice or afternoon medical treatments. In conclusion, I should like to say that when tons of political controversy come up, as today, we need to see things objectively and from a distance. First of all, what are the changes brought about by today's bill? They are about students, parents, teachers, owners of private schools. To their large majority, parents who choose a private school for their children warmly welcome today's arrangements, and that is because they experienced the current regime with the hooks that no improvement has brought to the educational experience of their children. Teachers will be able to work less or more hours depending on their personal needs and always protected by labour legislation. The owners of private schools acquire flexibility to offer multiple services and activities to their students. After all, school works like a living organism, which has to constantly evolve. The private school must also have a range of options for actions beyond the timeframe. Otherwise it does not serve its purpose, i.e. to be an area of learning, creation and entertainment for students, with a wide range of knowledge and skills cultivating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr. Lippi. We invite SYRIZA MP, Mr. Elisabeth Scoofa, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to begin with a general remark which I fully understand. We are in the temple of democracy, which presupposes fertile and creative dialogue and respect for the different viewpoints. This, of course, requires that we, its members, the model, act as a model for society as a whole. Nevertheless, I am sorry to see, as the great majority of our fellow citizens have seen, that in the debates in this House any political oppositions, perceptions and disagreements are turned into personal attacks against members of the Greek Parliament. I think and believe that this is all very negative and that we must change our self-compensation and self-restriction all of us. I'm going to the bill. This draft law does not only concern private education, as you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, it does not concern non-state education, as our rapporteur pointed out, which, according to Article 16 of the Constitution, is under public and state supervision. All the changes that you bring are not just about private education. This is clearly confessed to a recent article, such as Mr Arvantin's article entitled 'The new private school will change the public.' Any changes you intend to bring, extend them - if the Greek people allow you - to the whole area of education and education. A large part of the discussions in the Committee on Educational Affairs took place and our political difference in relation to the interpretation of Article 16 of the Constitution and more specifically, in relation to the scope and quality of supervision under the Constitution and must be carried out on the basis of the Constitution on non-state school units. So what are you telling us? You tell us that we, with our legislation, have strangled the private initiative of the owners of non-state school entities at the expense of the pupils, the educational and teaching work provided and the needs of society. That's what you're going for. You're telling us that you're providing higher degrees of freedom. Mrs Anagnostopoulou, however, yesterday in her committee she split up - and I literally adopt her position - emphasised the enormous difference in freedom from immunity. But I would like to ask the question and philosophically, based on the philosophy of law. Really, what do you think the constitutional legislature is seeking when expressly anticipating state supervision? It intends to restrict and abolish it or to ensure it. It's a rhetorical question. With this bill, therefore, you completely withdraw the organized state, the state from the supervision of the specific school units, you are abolishing the role of the Ministry of Education itself, which - if I am not mistaken - should prepare the general planning, operating rules, the multitude and type of teaching staff, the rules for the recruitment of teachers, their service situation, etc. all and all school structures. Most importantly, however, the Ministry of Education is the centre and must remain the centre of expulsion and supervision in terms of the implementation of a coherent educational and educational vision. Consistent, not extraordinary. You're limiting this supervision. You are not limiting it, of course, only in the field of school units. I shall refer to this point later. Moreover, you are deregulation of the working relationships of teachers at the specific school units, of non-State school units, as you are going to all educational staff under the rules of common labour law, since, of course, you have already disbursed a number of beneficial labour regulations, such as, for example, the legitimate reason for dismissal. In a way, of course, the Ministry of Labour has already institutionalised the abolition of minimum wages, while it has again extended the suspension of labour and rotating labour. Try once again to cultivate social automation and turn society against teachers. You are, however, a member of the Ministry of Education and, as such, you must retrain the whole society in the direction of highlighting and respecting the work, the role, the personality of educational and pedagogical staff. I said before that that your main policy aim is to completely withdraw state supervision and its regulatory role from all areas of public policy, namely, the areas of supervision, which a rule of law must provide, so that its citizens feel safe and protected against all forms of arbitrary action. You also believe in self-regulation - as you say - of the market. But do you think of the economic and social consequences of this self-regulation at all? You are basically concerned with surviving only 20% of businesses, that is to say, surviving the big fish by eating it, because, as we see, this applies as a government in all sectors of the economy. We now have this practice of closing the thousands of thousands of young people, extinct the large social majority in the field of education. You are sending the numerous centres of foreign languages, middle-education schools, and I do not know what else with Article 3 of the bill, of course not for the benefit of students and society, but only for the benefit of the major educational establishments and their owners. The reason for obvious and plausible: you are interested in the well-being of the few, day-to-day and great capital, in other words, the well-being of your funders and supporters.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Scouffa. Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu, Member of the Change Movement, has the floor. Immediately after that, the President of the Parliamentary Group and Secretary-General of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas, will speak. Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u59	In attending the debate both in committee and in plenary so far, it is in the face of this reality: New Democracy says how badly SYRIZA did it and how well she does it, and SYRIZA says how well he did it and how much worse New Democracy does it. You compete, that is, who does the best. Our picture, ladies and gentlemen, is that you are probably competing towards the worst, who has made it worse, or is making it worse. It is a drama concerning education and education when it has long been essential for dialogue on how our educational system needs to be shaped, so that it can be synchronised with developments, with the 4th Industrial Revolution, with the needs of society, with the needs of the country. And there are many years when this is not done, I would say since a bill got two hundred and forty-three votes in this Parliament. Under no circumstances can we therefore discuss on the basis of both issues. We have a bill on private education entitled 'Modernisation of Private Education'. In the past, we had a bill saying 'Public School Upgrade'. Do you honestly think these two titles are justified by the contents of the bills? Do you think that the upgrading of the public school was achieved by that bill that we voted on at the time? And if so, why are you bringing today an amendment to the administrative education system? Why didn't you predict it then? Is it a little time for you to be able to organise a debate on the education system, which could have been discussed, agreed and come to Parliament in an institutional way, in order to legislate rather than an amendment at the last minute - because it is, as a matter of urgency, a committee and this House today - but with an amendment which demonstrates that you do not have a comprehensive plan for education and that you are going on'seeing and doing'? Of course, I firmly believe that you came in August before August to put the procedures for temporary directors. So this process could have been institutionalised, and I believe that the government is choosing the worst way because it just wants to replace the pink managers in every county with the blue managers. Of course, I would like to make it clear that the previous situation and the current situation cannot cover all the staff with party parties or choose to have some other places to be confirmed. Because in the addresses today there are some executives who leave the party rule and tomorrow there will still be some officials, but that does not change the overall perception that you are going to go through. So we discuss the bill, about private education, and listen to what we hear from both sides. The government tells us that private education must not have rules that apply, but at the same time it must give equal titles. And on the contrary, we hear that in fact private education is not 'equivalent' to public policy and should be essentially under suffocating state control. It cannot be in Greece 2020 that public education, whether provided by state structures or provided by non-public structures - private and others - gives equal titles, is not considered to provide public education. In my view, we must absolutely consider that it provides public education and, in that sense, there must be rules which clearly have to do with the educational aspect, the scientific, absolutely identical to those of the state structures, and, of course, the differentiation in terms of ownership, whether it is a non-profit-making entity or a private body, not to lead to the fact that it falls under the trade address of the region concerned, because that is what this is about. If you say it is a private business and it does not fall under rules and in relation to work it is like a private business, it is like recognising that it does not provide equal titles. It is a contradiction that you must solve both, and in particular, those who in practice recognise private education, and those who go there, who are both the government and the other parties and the opposition, and at the same time curse private education. Now that's crazy! They shall be condemned in general and in vain. I heard my friend friend friend friend again saying the tenth of what he said. And if we see in the 4% students in private education who are, we'll see they come from the whole political spectrum. So it's not a matter you can put yourself in this way. Is there a public interest? Of course there is. How is the public interest ensured? That must be what we all need. Rules are therefore respected for everyone by the differentiation that they have in fact in relation to the property regime, but also by the basic principle that they provide the same education. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A little time, Mr President, and I shall finish. For us, therefore, the first interest is the education of pupils, families, and that is what we want to ensure, and then, within this context, the coexistence in private education and those who have taken the initiative and have made schools and those who work in it. But we don't start with the individual interests. Our main target is another. And from that point of view, we are placing ourselves in a position and tabling our proposals. Two amendments have been tabled. One concerns those candidates who, because of the paradox of the EUR 3 which was not seen or could not be submitted, have been excluded from classification tables. And that is a major problem that should have been solved already. Why is this a big problem? It's not just about the list of alternates this year. Unfortunately, it has been shaped for three years. It is therefore an issue which you can solve today. Show the willingness to move on to an important public education issue on the right basis. We're talking about a private bill. Also, there is the question we have raised before you, the compliance of the administration with the decisions of the Council of State. I must tell you that, having the honour of participating in the Conference of Presidents, in the previous period we had a hearing of candidates for the position of President of the Council of State. The question I have asked most candidates was about compliance, and I have also brought the specific example of administration to the Council of State. There was not a single one telling me that the administration, in this case the Ministry of Education, is entitled to refuse this compliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u60	Finish, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u61	I'm done with this. We have therefore tabled an amendment to you. We believe that you should see her even today. The amendment says the following. There is a law which says that as many judicial decisions as we recognize them and assign them, and we say that judicial decisions have come out and after that legislation, I very much hope that this will be the case. There can be no exceptions in this case. We need to comply with the administration. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, too. I would ask that Stepma be prepared sanitaryly in order to call on the President of the Parliamentary Group and Secretary-General of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsouba, to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that we are almost a month before the start of the new school year. You had to take all measures to open up schools in terms of health and safety for students and teachers, present concrete measures for the development of school infrastructures, serve schools with all teachers on the first day of operation of schools with permanent, stable work, recruitment of staff for cleanliness, the creation of modern educational services, in order to effectively address a new possible wave of spreading the pandemic. All this has been noted for months by the parents and teachers. None of this seems to concern you, unless you intend to do the school again optional as in the months after the quarantine, charging all burdens to the name of the most famous individual responsibility, to the parents and teachers themselves. Government and Civic Opposition you celebrated a few days ago for the famous agreement reached at the summit, the agreement of the European Union and the billions of the Recovery Fund. We ask you directly as you like large words about upgrading school, investing, knowledge, and so forth. Are the costs of setting up hundreds of new schools, especially kindergartens, to ensure that children do not learn in warehouses and containers? Do expenditure on permanent appointments, which schools so need, or will you continue with the policy of generalising flexible labour relations? The answer, of course, is well known. We don't have any self-defence about who's going to unleash these packages once again. The great winner, and this time it will be the big capital, the big businesses. The workers once again will pay the bill with new measures, with cutbacks, quarters. The reality itself shows us that only the conflict with this strategy of great capital, its governments, the European Union and their memoranda is the way for the people not to pay for the crisis, the new crisis that is under way and, of course, to go to total counter-attack for their own life. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of giving solutions to the acute problems of education as a whole, you are bringing to the House another anti-educational draft law, which goes on to sweeping changes in the functioning of private schools and in the working relations of private teachers. Another bill concerning thousands of workers comes suddenly during summer holidays. The obvious aim of the Ministry of Education is to end with its vote, without too many reactions. The provisions of the bill, as you yourself admit in the explanatory statement, are a continuation of the government's policy on education, i.e. a continuation of the unacceptable anti-educational legislation on public education, on cameras in the teaching rooms, on unscientific changes in the timetables, etc. It is a set of arrangements that have all caused great justified reactions from teachers' associations, from parents, from students and students. This draft law on private education is a piece of legislation which has a serious impact on the educational role, but also on the working rights of thousands of private teachers. It recommends intervention in favour of employers, undermining the labour rights of teachers workers as well as the State's supervisory role in the operation of private schools. It therefore produces conditions of inequality, which are also directed against pupils in public schools. Workers are transformed literally into ballasts of employers' arbitrariness. You are thus opening the way for even greater overthrows of labour rights as a whole and not just of private teachers. Acquisitioned age rights through the workers' struggles themselves, for you are weights in the new environment of the absolute working jungle, which you want to shape and shape, opening the field to the great employer. When you talk about freedom of business in private education or the autonomy and flexibility to be provided to employers, one thing you mean: the absolute freedom of schoolchildren to exploit as much as they want, whenever they want and in any way want and want workers. All contracts for private teachers will be in accordance with general Labour Law and will be concluded from the outset as an indefinite period, effectively abolishing conquests of years in the field of private education. Legislate on behalf of employers, free redundancies without control by any body would judge the abuse of the contract notice before it was accepted by the Education Department concerned. Undetermined contract time means in conjunction with the above that the employer will be able to fire the teacher, even in the middle of the year. Teachers, in other words, will not have the minimum protection to avoid extortion of the employer, if it considers that the interests of its business are all students, for example, to graduate with "excellence" or vice versa, if it considers that it should create a school of hard excellence, with the exclusion of those who cannot follow. As part of the so-called free and fine relationship between an employer and a worker, the worker can take over duty in the afternoon hours or in days when the school is late, of course, with the legal pay, to give up part of his working hours and salary. Of course, always all of this voluntarily. So we ask: Who will deny this free choice, with the gun on the head, called 'dismissal, without control and without time limit'? The possibility is given - see 'free choice' - for each school to define its own evaluation system, with its own criteria and procedures. In combination with the new framework of redundancies, there is a dreadful prospect not only of redundancies, but also of redundancies which are inadequate, on the basis of the criteria to be determined on the basis of clear business criteria, i.e. profit. Schools are able to operate at the end of normal working hours, as pedagogical facilities or any other form of informal education, either on the side of the same company or in any other business scheme, attracting pupils from public schools during the afternoon hours. Moreover, in this way, thousands of self-employed, owners of small-time schools will be brought to the lock, closure, unemployment, unable to cope with competition with the buildings present in the area. It fully captures the reality of being a "stroker" for this bill of yours. Employees in the field of private education have a memory, they also have a crisis. The policy of all governments over time has created an unacceptable working regime in the field. The Minister for Education, however, does not function alone and the current government is the only one responsible for what is going on in employment in general and for those of private teachers in particular. The strategic choice of attaching all governments to the choices of the European Union and the OECD on education is a given one. We do not forget that in 2017 Mr.Gavroglou, invoking troika pressures, changed the law that the SYRIZA government had passed to assess the education a few months ago, thus opening the evaluation of the teacher by his employer, i.e. a crisis of educational competence, with the role of the head of the school unit. Employees in private schools have been living in an indirect and immediate system of threats, delays in paying wages, outrageous demands of employment for labour intensity, sometimes black and unpaid. All this, Mr SYRIZA's gentlemen, has been true with your own government, and so you cannot be presently the'mother virgins'! Even with the existing institutional framework, all this was everyday for many private-school workers. The SYRIZA government has consistently served education - merchandise and has been a patron to the demands of major schoollors. The Government of New Democracy today also lifts the last obstacles to the complete abolition of all rights. For all these reasons, we demand that this unacceptable draft law be withdrawn. We call on the whole of the private education world to join its clubs, its clubs, and to give a fighter response to these governmental plans, to condemn all parties, who constantly plunge workers' rights and break the education of our children. In the struggle this JRC with its processed positions, with its proposal for school, for society, with its members and members in the movement will always be ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u64	And we thank Mr. Koutsuba. I now give the floor to the Minister, Mr Theodorikos, in order to place him on the amendment with a general number of 421 and a special 34, as has been tabled. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor to explain in detail the amendments made by the Ministry of Interior to this bill, but they have been directly related to the smooth and regular operation of school units since the start of the new school year. The first issue concerns the resolution of the problem with school cleaners in previous years. We are giving an effective and fair solution. First of all, as you know, the process of recruitment, payment, and all the employment relationships of cleaners and cleaners with the state in local government is complete. It has so far been the case that it was in INEDIBIM, a legal person mentioned at the Ministry of Education. So it goes through self-government. The solution we give is that the municipalities now have the opportunity to make fixed-term contracts with the men or women who will take over the cleaning of schools. And the set time will be from the start of the school year until the end of the school year. Workers and workers in this area will all have the same working rights and obligations. There is a definitive ending to a regime that lasted for many years, during which customer relations were developed between stakeholders to work and the municipalities and a regime of disparity and self-evidence at work. There are well-known things and situations that we have discussed on several occasions communications and discussions with employees' representatives in this area from all over Greece. They all have the same rights and obligations. In this way we ensure cleanliness in school units, we ensure the regular work of workers in this area. I would particularly like to thank the Ministry of Finance, the General Accounting Office of the State, for the solution we give leads to an increase in the costs for the state. We estimate that the cost of the previous solution, Minister, is about EUR 20 million, which enables the Ministry of Finance to cover them. Therefore, we must also be sure of effective work on cleanliness in schools and on normal human labour relations, as appropriate in a country - a state of the European Union. The second is a regulation concerning school wheelchairs for the period when we had the quarantine. Several municipalities had paid people who had an intermediate relationship. It's not a hired job. It's volunteering. And it is a very small amount, in fact, for an important social project offered by these people. Many municipalities had paid school wheelchairs. With the regulation we are doing, we have to make sure that everyone is paid, because an injustice has to be lifted, where in other municipalities people and other municipalities have not been paid. The resources were already there because they are provided for through the CFPs and the grant we are giving as the Ministry of the Interior to all municipalities. The third issue concerns the transfer of pupils. We are giving an immediate and practical solution where competition from regions has been found to be barren or there has been no new or new need because of the coronary and the need to move. As all children are able to go to school properly and to function normally from the start of the new year, we are able either to extend previous contracts or to carry out a reasoned decision by the economic committees of the regions, to negotiate with a closed number, so that they can make the awards before the school year begins. So we will ensure that the work of transferring children to schools is completed with complete security and certainty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u66	The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos, has spoken on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u67	Minister, I would like to ask you a question and ask your support for an amendment we have tabled. The question is about school cleaning. As far as we are concerned, there was a problem with regard to the budget. We would like you to inform us how the transfer of funds to self-government has been ensured and the financial safeguard or the amendment you are proposing. On the amendment. It is an amendment which most parties support. Because the rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece previously developed it, too, by the rapporteur of the Change Movement. It is also a question that Mr Friends has asked. We have also tabled an amendment. It is for a competition, for a notice of the AACC - in which you are the supervisor-in-command - on 1 GI/2019, where, for a technical problem arising, in terms of the payment of the infringement, a thousand eight hundred and thirty-seven teachers have been excluded at this time. We believe - and this is an opportunity for you to be here - that there must be a consensus on the government, on the part of the AACC and on the part of Mrs Keramea as Minister of Education, so that a solution to this problem which is a flagrant injustice and which, according to the AACC's own response to Mr Phile, which was transmitted by the Government, can only be solved by legislative regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, too. I give the floor to Mr Delis, a special speaker of the JRC, to ask the Minister something.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u69	I'd like to ask you one question, Minister. I will not ask you, of course, why do you deny the right of those who work cleansing in a permanent and stable job? You deny it very simply because that is your policy, as was the policy of the previous ones, as is the policy of the European Union. I think we have discussed this too many times. I would ask you, however, if this transfer of competence to the municipalities, namely, of fixed-term employment contracts, is accompanied by a transfer of resources from the State to the municipalities. Or will you tell the municipalities 'cut your neck, do you get the money you'll pay for these cleaners'? Meanwhile, as it is evident, the cleaners and cleaners they will need will be enough with a very likely outbreak of the COVID pandemic. Finally, since you are here, on this occasion we want to ask you - because yesterday the Minister of Education said that it is a matter of the Ministry of the Interior - on the amendment to the three euro paradox which condemns thousands of young teachers, not just by not being appointed, but also by losing the right to work as a substitute for the next three years. That's what we're talking about. We are anxiously awaiting your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u70	I give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Mulkiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u71	Mr Minister, with your amendment, work contracts are being carried out over a fixed period of time. That's a fact. Of course, there will be continuous renewals with the holidays that are expected to exist. However, at meetings at which you and representatives of the cleaners and cleaners union, the question of continuing the employment of these people, who have been working for over five years, has been raised by up to twenty years. It is not ensured that there will be the possibility of continuing for a further period of time, which you, too, seem to have at meetings that you recognised is fair and reasonable as their request. In addition, with today's process that you are actually transferring responsibility to the municipalities, major issues are also raised, perhaps other options. Perhaps the cleaners and cleaners will be in the more general procedures that are the victims of certain personal choices, ruffles and weaknesses of those who are five, ten, fifteen years old and who are constantly working as school cleaners and cleaners to threats or pressures on such issues. And of course we agree on the issue that has been raised, on the budget and the resources. Are there so many resources that the municipalities will be able to make use of? I would like an answer on this because it will be very important. Finally, on the issue of e-insurance, which has also been heard by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, there is also an amendment from the Change Movement, which is a major issue, an issue that is fair and reasonable to take, to make a decision, a political coverage. It's uncertain, and you realize it. In all respects, it is an injustice. We believe that these amendments should be accepted by the Ministry of Education today, which are common and which is the demand for them to be accepted. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u72	Minister, Mr Theodorikos, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u73	Two points have been raised, I think, by all three colleagues, so all are obviously answered together. As far as the issue of cleanliness in schools, workers and workers is concerned. The answer is clear and unequivocal: the money is provided for in the budget. There was already provision in the legislation that this process will be passed on to the municipalities this year. There may have been a debate recently on whether we are ready or exactly how it will be, but that has already been planned. So they're in the budget. So the money is normally given by the General Accounting Office of the State. There has been work, and that is why I have talked about a certain amount of money that we will need about EUR 20,000 000, which is foreseen and which will normally be given to the municipalities in order to fully and effectively operate the measure to which I referred in presenting the amendment. As you have seen in this amendment, the recruitment procedure details are regulated by a ministerial decision of the Minister of the Interior. I want to be clear. I think it is reasonable and fair that people who work ten, fifteen and more years sometimes, who are obviously in a bad economic situation and in difficult life data, should ensure - and we will ensure - that the ministerial decision takes the complete lead. Mr. Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, you know that on the basis of the Greek Constitution, these people could not be permanentised. It was a matter that I explained too many times in the workers' delegations. We are essentially concerned about the workers. By telling them that I'm going to simulate you when you can't just mock them. We wanted to give a practical and fairer solution. That is what we are doing, because the continuity of these workers is ensured, they improve their working rights and they become normal rights for normal workers, and not this regime, which I do not want to describe as that that has been the case in the past few years. It was totally unacceptable. The least one can say is that it's a wild customer relationship. The least one can say is that. He's ending all this. The problem is settled. We solve the problem of workers. We solve the problem of schools and our children going to schools and must be found, shaped and experience their experiences within the educational community in a clean and safe school, with guaranteed resources from the Ministry of Finance and the General Accounting Office of the State. Now, with regard to the second issue, it had dealt with topicality months ago, it is not now the subject. I will come back after discussing the matter with the President of the AACC, because it is a matter which concerns the procedures and functions of the AACC. The APA has its own function. They're a separate instrument. He is not a legal person to whom the Minister is giving orders, nor should he be, nor should he be. I will discuss with him to see what the solution the President and the administration of the AACC thinks is, which you will see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u74	And we thank the Minister. We continue the list of Members of Parliament. I call on Mrs Catherine Papakosta - Papura, Member of the New Democracy, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with today's vote of the Ministry of Education and Religion bill, while we are moving towards accessing the stranglers in the field of private education with the aim of improving the educational services provided by private education and ensuring a more stable professional status for teachers and more reliable educational systems for parents, on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, with your ideas, you speak of supermarkets and Mall commercialisation, inequality, among the social classes. To know, ladies and gentlemen, we are not thinking at the expense of public education. We first made sure to legislate for the self-evident - which you did not play for so many years as its fervent supporters - and then we ensure a better framework for private education. We balance the educational system of the country and do not divide it into camps of good and bad, left and right. With the main objective of eliminating the restrictions and anachronistic provisions that have so far covered the upgrading of education, we are organising this legislative framework on the basis of the threefold: Confidence, flexibility, protection. These provisions, therefore, aim to make the school programme more flexible through additional teaching support, to strengthen language learning and to teach cognitive objects, in addition to those set out in the compulsory timetable. In addition, by safeguarding the credibility of private education through evaluation, we are at the same time leading to the confidence of the state and citizens, to private education. We believe that the annual school programme of the teachers should add additional educational activities. Of course, private school teachers' hours of employment in the additional services, if they are awarded, are counted as hours of normal weekly teaching, i.e. hours of appointment. We give this opportunity to teachers to increase their income through their participation in additional educational activities, but we also provide for contracts of indefinite duration in contrast to the two-year contracts that made them in doubtful position for their professional future. We are discharged from state control of the appointment of directors and assistant directors. After all, it is our primary objective to reduce State intervention and strengthen private initiative. Then we bring an innovative provision for the public education system relating to secondary education, namely the 3rd grade. The special courses examined in the pan-Hellenic exams were not taught until now at school. Moreover, through the strengthening of special courses, pupils can attend these courses without additional costs being borne by parents. Even with particular sensitivity, we are looking for blind students to attend schools, where additional qualified staff and teachers will be appointed for the quality and most effective education of these children. As far as foreign students are concerned, we are simplifying the procedure for granting residence permits to students who have so far acted dissuasively. Finally, on the occasion of Article 21, once again, the government's readiness to prepare itself for the impact of the coronary on the day-to-day education of the country. That is why we are improving distance learning by using new technologies instruments to students of all types of school and educational structures. Ladies and gentlemen, the establishment and operation of private schools has already occupied the Greek state since the political constitution of 1827 with Article 20, in which the principle of freedom of private education was established, "The Greeks have the right to establish schools and choose teachers to form. And the House is vigilant about public education in that it ensures the provision of free compulsory education." The state is therefore obligated to constantly try to provide best education to all its citizens and especially at the level of compulsory education. In this light, however, since there are individuals who choose to invest in education and support the process of upgrading the country's standard of living, they should be treated at least as equal interlocutors and as state aiders. Over the last few days - and I am closing with this, Mr President - it has been heard at some of the meetings of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media that the New Democracy Government is considering it as a good thing and what it is in public has for flying. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in a month's time we have legislated to upgrade public education and adapt it to its requirements today, with the possibility of every educational level for students to cultivate and develop their skills, to come into contact with technology and language teaching, and that for five and a half years in government SYRIZA - ANY the parents paid from their pockets in order to provide them with their children. However, you supported public education, mutilating it and embracing the knowledge provided to students. Show the finger of those who chose private education and send and send today many of you children to private schools. This is how you only succeeded in putting teachers, parents and students across from you. As a liberal and rational government, then, we bring the Ministry of Education bills, with the aim of promoting students at the highest level, supporting teachers for their contribution to society and making the educational system for parents credible. For whichever choice we have legislated responsiblely and in the light of the best knowledge available to our children. Therefore, what was to fly, ladies and gentlemen, was expelled by society on its own a year ago in the 2019 parliamentary elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, too. I call to Stepma the MP of SYRIZA, Mr. Christopher Vernardakis for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start from yesterday. We have a disagreement with the Minister. I do not see it here, but I would like to ask: was it for the first time the strengthening of university administration? You didn't find the evidence. I really don't know how your offices and services work. I would therefore like to present to you, here in the Official Journal of the Government of October 10, 2016, the AACC issue, number 2C, a call for expressions of interest in the filling of positions concerning the administrative staff of universities. From page 150 and then per university and per department are all the administrative posts. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christoforos Vernardakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I've got S.H.I.E.L.D.'s excel here. Personnel Selection Board, 2CG/2016 and so on, reformed alphabetical table of appointing directors. Let me see the first three, so I don't mind you. The first one is at the National Kapodistrian University, DE Administrative - Accounting. The second is at the Western Macedonia TEI, the Administrative Secretarys. The third is at the Agronomic University, the University of Administrative and Accountancy. I'm filing it in the Minutes. Incidentally, looking, I see the nominations on the paper of the Official Journal of the Government. I found S.H.I.E.L.D. on June 15, 2017, the integration of workers into the administration of S.E.L.D. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christoforos Vernardakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] We won't argue. You do well and support the administrative issues, but the injunction with which you come and say "first time" is unprecedented. You, who have fired so many managers from the universities and dismantled them and returned with our government, say "for the first time" with this indictment! We won't argue, you're fine. I come to the main issues. You have the law for the two hundred LPIS members. I told you yesterday that at least four to five thousand ICP members have left for the last four years - five years. We have legislated, precisely because now the problem is vital for the operation of universities, the possibility for everyone who is retired by the ICP members to be able to recruit immediately for its replacement. Do you have a legislative framework for this, and instead of that, you tell us about two hundred ICP members, which are not enough to meet the needs - is it funny to talk about this - and do you appear to be a success? Funny things! The worst part is that we really have a deaf dialogue. In other words, there is a dialogue that we do not understand what everyone says. We must also use sign language, obviously, because we cannot agree otherwise to something that is stable. Let's go a little bit to the bill. It's a question first. Conflict of interest. Large private schools become sponsorships of parties. Obviously, one's thinking if there's going to be a recompense. The schools, I repeat, have given schools as businesses money and are entitled to think, are they asking for favourable legislation? Is it illegal to be a sponsor of a political body? Oh, no. But when a body is supervised by the Ministry of Education and is controlled, to issue equal qualifications, it is morally superseded to make donations to any party that it is going to govern. And morally superficial is at risk of being involved, because here we see the integration of all the positions of the owners. We do not see a law of equilibrium if we look at it in good faith, but we see a piece of legislation which incorporates fixed and hard positions for the work of the teachers' owners. We used to call it a complication. Others call it the subjection of politics to economic interests. This is a serious problem of parliamentary order, above all. Second matter. The rapporteur, with an ignorance of danger, raised the question of private universities. Madam Minister, if it is in the private universities, which you think about and want to make or vision, you should legislate in the same way that you legislate for private schools, then our woes and alas! Flexible jobs, without selective and unskilled qualifications, without an institutional framework, without control of legality, in proportion to what private training owners today claim to be their school directors? By the way, we also have a karabina conflict of interest. Private school owner participates in the Board of Directors of the Institute for Education Policy. Not any, but a landlord who is controlled for a body of disciplinary violations, and even town-planners for her school. Anyone can draw their conclusions. Work. The "black box" of this bill. You want a school that bases activities on workers without assignments? Because there have been these cases. Won't the state exercise supervision? Do we want undeclared workers who will either work this afternoon or unpaid morning teachers who will be blackmailed - in or out of import - for the afternoon shift? Do we want a unilaterally harmful change in working conditions? This humanity you showed up as an example, which says that a teacher who has been working so far in June will suddenly say that she wants to work less with a wage reduction, that, you know, is called eunuch under the threat of the free dismissal that you enact today. Legislation could be the title of the bill. Why shouldn't that be? Because teachers sign public papers, degrees, grades, absenteeism. They sign them according to the laws and their conscience. That is why the law also gives them elementary autonomy, so that they can fulfil this public role, which they have. All the private schools? Apparently not. You talk about private education and ignore basic coordinates of the history of private education in Greece. To a large extent, private education was made by teachers who suffocated into an ancient educational system. Especially after the civil war in a very conservative, overconservative educational system. And these schools have always focused on the teacher. In these schools, however, there was also a large portion of easy private schools and the legislation of state supervision, which Nikos Philis mentioned over time, which is exactly what he tried to ensure that we could not have two speeds of qualification. A few years ago a school was involved in a matter of buying the topics in the IB exam, the International Baccalaureate. What would you do? Aren't you going to exercise state supervision? Will you let such matters become and accept them in the context of the freedom of the owners? These days there is a check to delete four hundred absenteeisms and destroy unreasonable narratives at another private school. You don't care? Don't we care like a political system and state supervision?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Bernardakis, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u79	Just a moment, please, Mr President. A few years ago retired teachers were allowed to work tyres. It was the right of the owners, which was, of course, abolished. With the release of tutors? You guys talking about the middle class, haven't you heard that at this time many parents' clubs protested that since school didn't work properly, it had to go to a tuition policy? And there were pressures, but on behalf of the owners they encountered a universal refusal. What about the release of tutors? Is this also in the context of the owner's freedom rather than state supervision? I'm closing, Mr. President, with this. The focus of education - it has been heard several times in committee - is not the student. You're wrong. The student is the recipient. The focus of the educational process and the educational process was, is, is and will always be the teacher, the free teacher, the educator, the instructor who must innovate. That is the focus of the process. This is the ombudsman. For that very reason, and good large private schools have always respected this status, as the public school must obviously respect it. Basic principle we've forgotten her. Look, there's a long night coming not only for teachers in private schools, but also for workers. Because they're not just teachers. They're the drivers too, they're the bankers...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u80	Please close, Mr. Bernardakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u81	We'll see this night as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, too. Mr. Stamenite from New Democracy has the floor. Mr. Loverdos will be followed by the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, we will be very late to see the law on private higher education with your choice, so that children continue to study in Bulgaria, Cyprus and the other countries that have private universities. It'll be an economic haemorrhage for the country. Today we are discussing the bill "Modernisation of Private Education", the title of which could well be "The new page in private education in Greece". Following the legislative initiative to modernise and upgrade primary and secondary education, the bill for the modern administration and organisation of private schools complements and completes the overall design of the current government for the creation of a modern quality and upgraded educational system. The basic positions and principles of the government, the leadership of the Ministry of Education and the New Democracy's Party on what an educational system we want and, in fact, what an educational system we deserve to have. Ladies and gentlemen, the previous government, with a look at yesterday, suffocating tomorrow, has created a suffocating framework for the operation of private schools in our country. As in public education, its choices in private have caused too many distortions, which have in turn created a number of problems in the way private schools organise and run. This draft law, therefore, comes to cure the wounds that the SYRIZA government legislature has opened, giving private education the tools it needs to develop and offer pupils, teachers and school units maximum benefits. In this context, the Ministry of Education's draft law sets out the main objectives of balanced and harmonious coexistence of private initiative and State control, with a view to strengthening the first and to reducing the second. Another basic aim is the essential autonomy of the school unit in organisation and administration, thereby enabling growth and development. Also, strengthening the right for parents to choose the school their child wants to go. Finally, the best use of the human resources available to each school unit, but also the substantial support for teachers. With this draft law, the Ministry aims to give more autonomy to school units in order to develop their own educational program and to be able to regulate relationships with their human resources, to have the opportunity for parallel and additional educational activities, to introduce actions outside the school's predetermined working days and to focus on specific cognitive subjects. Is it wrong to create schools renowned for the expertise they provide, for example, in physics or literature? Is it wrong for a student who has decided early or who has shown his or her inclinations to a specific cognitive subject, to be able to choose a school institution that will strengthen this skill or interest in a particular field of knowledge? Is it classic that an amazing person - if he wishes - can be employed in additional activities outside school hours, with an increase in his income? Is an internship an instructor to ask for a reduction in working hours? Would you rather he quit, lose his job, why can't he handle it for personal reasons on a full-time basis? They are questions that need to be answered. On this point, indeed, I would like to refer here to the provisions of Article 14, in which the systematic teaching of special courses in Greece is first introduced into the public schools of the country. It is a substantial arrangement that restores a distortion of the educational system, since until now we have had a fragmentary teaching of these courses, which to a very large extent have defined the course of the students who chose them. Ladies and gentlemen, more than any other debate that is taking place in the public sphere, the debate on education and the features of an educational system is one that reflects the basic ideological positions of each political force in the country. We have seen this through the years through the positions expressed on major issues such as asylum at universities, the establishment of non-state universities, but also on issues such as excellence, evaluation and merit. The position of the country's political forces is well known. If we had to summarize the differences between the world of progress and development, which we believe are traditionally the New Democracy, or the world of stagnation and regression, which SYRIZA advocates, they would be summarised in five contradictions: Innovation against anachronism. Flexibility to containment. Freedom against strong interventionism. Modernisation towards regression. Autonomy against the suffocating frame. A controversy that we are seeing today, on the occasion of the debate on this draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, through the legislative initiatives of the leadership of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, it turns out that the Government of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis remains faithful to its vision of education, as he had presented it in election. It is clear that we are investing in a public and private educational system with open and distant horizons, which can receive the messages of the time and respond to the current challenges. I won't say it's time for big changes, because we're too late. Responsibility for the delay in the education sector in Greece has a name: SYRIZA and Left. But I will say that now we dare and we are determined not to waste any more time. Because we know very well that every effort being made to develop, progress and modernise our country, that is to say, every effort that aims to design a better tomorrow, goes through our education and education system. For us investing in education is an investment in the future, tomorrow. This makes this specific draft law: it invests in tomorrow's education in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Ioannis Loverdes has the floor from New Democracy, followed by Mr. Tarantilis. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. I have said this before that it is the issues of education that are causing the most intense ideological controversy between our space and the left, perhaps even from the economy. And that's understandable because it's happening. We have another perception of the role of the private sector and of the public sector in our country and around the world. I understand the Left feels a little uncomfortable with what's private. Acceptable. We do not possess an absolute truth, nor do you possess it, neither of us possess it, we have our ideological political perceptions, you have your own and final judges always is the Greek people, whose thoughts are evolving, it does not remain stable. Once the public body, publicity and education were more intense. For this reason, perhaps because Mr. Philis mentioned it repeatedly, in 1976 Paul Bakoyannis wrote that article to which you referred. Today, if the infamous Paul Bakoyannis lived and if he had not been deprived of his life by some fanatics, in a terrible and terrible way, I assure you that Paul Bakoyannis would be a champion of private universities. Because life is evolving, unfortunately on the left, I fear, that you are staying in the past and that is one of your major problems, in my opinion always. As, too, we have a different perception of things. I have already heard Mr Vernardakis say that the educational system is the teacher. No, he's the student. Everyone, school, Ministry of Education, parties, parliament, teachers, parents, we all work for the education of children, how things will get better for our children, how our children will learn better. The teacher is the means, as is the parent, to better raise children. It's not the purpose. The aim is to make students better, so that we have better generations in our country, to have better quality of our people in the years to come. And that's where we see that we have a big difference, a very big difference. We have this view, you have your own, and again I repeat that it will ultimately be judged by the Greek people themselves. In fact, private education in our country is a small part of total education. We are not against public education as you want to present it, on the contrary, we want strong public education effective, which is why we have tried to strengthen public education through experimental and standard schools. Public education, moreover, in the one million three hundred and sixty thousand, which is about the students in our country, only 4% go to private schools. This does not mean, however, that we must deprive the parent and student of the choice to go to a private school. In fact, in a school that will be a good school. At a school where you'll learn letters. And that is why too many, even from the left place - and people do well because they want the good of their children - send their children to private schools. Not all private schools are the same. It's not all like college, it's like "Morai" or "Arsakia." No, there are fun schools. Any private schools that can't survive will be shut down. We have, unfortunately, recently had the closure of an old training centre in Zhiridis. He was unable to respond to the conditions of our times and closed. Sad, but it's done. The private school therefore exists to strengthen the student and his choice. And you know very well that too many fellow citizens send us their children with too much trouble to a private school, because they can't make it. You're doing a bad thing on the left. With the occupations of the past decades you have forced too many parents to say "schools are closed, let me send them to a private school, let's learn letters". You have undermined the very character of the public school with your attitude in previous years, and that is why perhaps you on the left should do your self-criticism, because if there is one reason why the public school was undermined, it is that. There is no more evaluation, there was no longer until recently of the public teachers of education, thus degrading the quality of the public school. They used to be confiscating, making trouble, making it come and see! And all this, it pays the public school today, but because of the left-wing policy, not the right-wing politics. We used to say - when we were young, dear Mr. Friend - that little are the good private schools, such as the college or the "Moraiite" or the Arsaceo. Most of them learned at the public school and arrived at the point today to seek the small and medium-sized people, who have not to live well - well and say "Is it not possible to find a way to send my child to a private school?". Why? Because you lowered public education. Now I hope that things will change and I hope they will also change in public school, which I repeat, we want to support the private school. Evaluation is something that obviously bothers you as a concept, but evaluation exists in life. There is no human being working and not being evaluated. Is there a man working and not being evaluated? This is where parliamentarians are being evaluated, isn't it? Don't they miss elections? The parties don't lose elections? Are they not evaluated by the Greek people? Is there a person in the private sector who isn't assessed? Why not assess the teacher? I don't understand that. There are very great teachers in private education, as well as in public education. They will in no way be fired. What schoolteacher, as you call them, will fire a worthy teacher when he knows his school is based? He'll fire if he needs the man who doesn't improve. It doesn't get better because it doesn't use better tools for the preparation and teaching of children. It's common sense. The same happens everywhere in the private sector. You just refuse to understand it. We figured it out. We're bringing in a bill. I'm not saying it's the perfect bill, no. We don't have perfections in our lives. We will see it when it is implemented in practice. But the direction we want to give is what we told you. To strengthen the private school, as well as public education. Are we gonna make it? We will also be judged in three years' time when the elections are to take place. And I hope we've done it, not for the good of the New Democracy, but for the good of our country and our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u86	Mr Tarantilis has the floor from New Democracy, and I shall then give Mr Varoufakis the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will focus my speech on the fundamental values that are being raised, as well as on the organisational skills that can be developed in each private educational unit by applying this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government is struggling every day for a society of freedom, for a society of truth, without atrocious and counterproductive state intervention. Unfortunately, the framework for private education in our country, as has been shaped so far, affects the fundamental nature of autonomy and freedom, which they need, in order to enable them to evolve and adapt in time to changes. The necessity, therefore, of this draft law stems precisely from the need to remove rigidity, which creates and produces strangles, often irrational claws, a rigidity that holds the private initiative. Therefore, the modernisation of the framework for the operation of private education is necessary, apparently ensuring that legality is respected, as regards the highest quality of education, but also by significantly reducing state intervention, in matters relating to the operation and organisation of private educational units. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be honest, as a whole, the current Greek legislation does not allow autonomy in private schools not only in terms of how teachers manage, but also in the adoption of the timetable and a detailed school program. Do you know this directly contradicts all international scientific studies showing what? They show that an important and decisive factor in the success of our children, namely our students, is the high level of autonomy in the definition of the curriculum. It is worth noting that although derogations from the curriculum or procedures must be granted are so bureaucratic and so difficult that they effectively discourage everyone from implementing such a derogation. Therefore, the rigidity that I have spoken about to you once again leads to the inability to develop innovative initiatives or experimental training activities. Moreover, the high state intervention in Greek private education once again comes in direct contrast to what you know throughout Europe. What happens across Europe? Among all the states in Europe, where private training courses can operate unsubsidised, Greece is the only country in which a suffocated truly bureaucratic state control is carried out, where all the areas of regulations and subcategories are examined and controlled together. You know what that can do. And here, in fact, I wonder if, instead of demonizing private school as a necessary evil, as has been said by political forces, which, like the features of, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population, you have said, a dry speculative entrepreneurship would not be much better honest and unhypocritical to recognise the role and position of the private school? If, instead of suppressing the dynamics of private school, we gave the private school freedom to develop, is it not very reasonable, as we have seen many times, that benefit returning to society? Ladies and gentlemen, improving the education provided is certainly a constant system of whatever political power. And why is it a continuous system? Because the added value of education is truly incalculable. It is assumed that the primary objective of government interventions should be to upgrade education in general, and this obviously includes both public education and private education. Thinking of this and in this context we should actually see private education as a complementary pillar, I would say in education and in no way as a competitive part of it. To conclude, I would like to stress that the word 'flexibility' really is a wishful word, but it is not just a wishful word, it is one of the most important organizational skills that a country, an educational unit, anything that can solve problems, face challenges, implement strategies. In a free economy, in a free society, the quality conditions of the education provided cannot be achieved, should not be binding on the name of an equalisation downwards. In fact, in the New Democracy, what we are evangelizing about the future is an education with vision of equality upwards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u88	The President of the Merra25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Varoufakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill gives us a good opportunity to rethink the role, function and importance of private schools. Worldwide, there are two approaches to private education. An approach, which has little to do with Greek things, applies more to Anglo-Saxony, recognizes private education with the inalienable right of man to escape from the state school, from the public sphere, is the liberating approach of which, as you know in countries such as the United States, leads some families to home education for children, so that there is absolutely no contact with public education, the so-called 'homeschooling'. There is a inherent liberating contrast with state power in this approach. There is, of course, another dimension that has to do with religious schools setting up congregations, doctrines and ethnic schools. Let us not forget the Greek schools in Australia, in Germany that have other objectives, but also that are part of the private approach. The second approach is the so-called second best option, the second best. In a country where public school cares, there is - and it is reasonable - the position of some that you cannot, you do not have the right to allow families, parents to send their children to a private school that will provide them with better educational and educational services. Now on the basis of the fact that private education comes from a combination of the "right" of the rich to offer their children education, who have no appetite to pay for the worker's child, for the grocery of the grocery store, for the child of the immigrants, together with a reasonable ambition for small and medium-sized enterprises to stand out even a little bit by sending their child to a second private school, hoping that the tuition fees, which they put aside, will prove to be a good investment and that it is a little more expensive than the costs of the tutorials that necessitate the low quality of public schools. Until now, the liberating approach, the approach of private schools through the philosophy of laissez-faire, of the free market, had been rejected by the conservative party for too many decades. Both the New Democracy and formerly the ETUC saw private schools as part of a public system, but they were subject to private management. The state and over the days of the previous New Democracy Governments did not trust the owner for the curriculum, they did not trust the owner for the treatment of teachers as if they were private employees, as if they were builders of a contractor, bank employees, employees in a supermarket and did not trust the owner of course for the rating, because there is obviously always an incentive to inflation when the parent pays the professor directly through the owner of course. I remember when I was in private school as a child, as a senior in "Maratis" the public committee of the teachers came - I don't know if that is the case - and then if the teacher of your private school put "18" and "10", "18" became "12" and the average "12" and "10" was "11". I'm saying that because it was at George Rally's office, if I'm not mistaken, this experience. So your resignation with this bill escapes your tradition. You have every right to do so, but to take note of it and assess it. Private school was not like a private business in the eyes even of the conservative party. The private dimension of private schools took the form of better buildings, more languages that could be learned by children in private schools, sports facilities, groups, libraries, audiovisual media, later computers. That was the role of private school according to your lineup, by your own method. It is wrong to make a simple separation between public and private. The class differences are divided and multiplyed. We can see them in private education too. To be clear, there are at least three kinds of private schools. The first is the Oligarchy schools, which are very strong. I'm saying it for those who don't send your children there. To be clear, I've graduated from one of them. You can see at 8:00 in the morning the quadruple, almost armoured, bodyguard vehicles that the kids take out of college, which you know very well, as well as the swimming pools in the schools and the large VIP, which I have stressed in this Chamber before, but no one wants to follow me in this debate. I consider it to be a national matter that a very large proportion of the children in the ruling class leave the Greek education system of their fifteen, even when they live in Greece. These are the schools, you know who they are. But there are also middle schools or private schools of the middle class with roots in some important people, some of the important reformers of a previous era that has been forgotten today. Finally, there are also small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises with low educational and educational standards and aspirations. Your bill, Minister, is hardly about the oligarchy schools, as they call them. But it also affects the future of this country. Let me explain what I mean. Let's get some of the articles in this bill, like Article 2. This article introduces further evaluation criteria to private schools. What I've been to, there's always been evaluation criteria. Antonis Moraitis sieved every teacher, every teacher with a very personal evaluation system, but very, very strict. I don't think you needed your bill to enter this. In "Athens College" there are surely evaluation systems, which may be very interesting. And I come to Article 3 which introduces more hours of foreign languages, music, artistic arts, computers and additional lessons in the afternoons. The private schools of the oligarchy have always offered these services to the children they studied there. It's nothing new. I do not see why we should legislate on something that has been in place for decades. Even the possibility of internal disciples existed for absent parents or parents who, like British aristocracy, dislike their children and want to send them home somewhere. There's always been that possibility. We are going to point 6 of Article 3, which has been debated a lot, and it is about building up with foreign language schools and schools, lifelong learning, entrepreneurial centres, etc. It is out of the question of 'College', 'Anatolia', 'Morai'. Slowly never joins the "College" with a language course. Your bill is therefore about medium and much more about small and medium-sized, low-standard private schools, the sector that you are strengthening more as you weaken and favour public school. So let us be clear about what it is about, who it is about, which sector is your bill. Let us now see what will be the impact of your basic articles on these private schools. I come to Article 5, which is much discussed, but it is worth another report. The presence of the owner or even of a mere shareholder of a school, as long as he has a degree in philosophy, is an instructor at the assembly of teachers, obviously contrary to the will of the teachers. Because if the teachers of a private school wanted the owner to be together and talk about it, then you wouldn't need your bill. What you are doing is enforcing the owner’s right to attend the meetings of the teachers. This, of course, is not about the 'College' or the 'Moraito'. It concerns small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises. And it makes it awkward for us that you put the owner - trader to be, attending the conventions of teachers, teachers. But I will come back to this. Now, as far as the establishment of private schools with foreign language centres is concerned, it does not concern, as I said, again "Collego", "Anatolia" in Thessaloniki. In fact, you are announcing an extension of the schools, you are announcing the existence of private education, a large piece of private education, from private education. In other words, you will actually do the opposite of what "College", "Morai" and "Anatolia", the schools of oligarchy. These incorporate foreign languages into their homes, essentially caregivers. You are now saying that schools will be included in the schools. Let's think about that. But before you think of this, let us come to the quintusia, to the top of the spear of your bill, to articles 9 and 10. Free redundancies and substantial devaluation of the status of the teacher as a dependent worker, just like a supermarket worker, a bank or a building. Again, Mrs Keramos, there will be no direct impact on "College", "School of Moraite", "Antolia". It won't change anything in there. However, the sarcasm that you enter into small- and medium-sized, low-standard private schools, after doing its devastating work there, will go on to the middle-private schools before it is extended by harming public schools. Madam Minister, there is no doubt - and I understand that - that a school owner would like to have no limitation on when to fire someone and whom to fire. Every man would like no restrictions on his freedom of movement. Obviously, the same applies to the employer. But you should ask yourself why so far the New Democracy Education Ministers have not trusted the owner to manage the teachers, as a contractor manages his builders. Why? Two were the main reasons. The first reason was that, unlike the brick builder, the teacher works with souls and minds of young people. It is called upon to inspire them, to inspire them, to help them to vision things bigger and better than what they see in their own home, in their surroundings. But, in order for the teacher to be able to do this, his autonomy is prerequisite, it is prerequisite for him to enter the class with the air of a man who brings something of his own and not a frightened trustee of a businessman, not a man who at all risks being fired if he rejects the logic of your bill, Madam Minister, the logic that many of the teacher wants, the professor "get up", "seat up" - sit down". Someone said before that the Left hurt the public school. Let me admit, as the Left has, in general, damaged many of the goods that we consider to be important. So you are now going to hurt private schools even, so that there will be a wrestling between the failures of the so-called "Left" and your own failures. There is nothing more destructive, more devastating, to the soul of the students than to make their education conditional on heterogeneous education teacher's education, who operates and experiences under the commands and fears of the employer - owner, the education dealer. The second reason why, until your bill came, the state did not trust the employer - owner to lay off according to the bench is this: When redundancies require - consider this, Minister - just when redundancies are a difficult process, it is not automatic, the employer is forced, because he knows it is difficult to dismiss, to "blow" a man long before he becomes a teacher in his school or at her school. He has to choose carefully. If the dismissal is released, as you insist, this motive disappears. Free redundancies are tantamount to preoccupied recruitment. Suspicious recruitment is equivalent to the conversion of class into a pool of passive teachers. It is the foundation of the humiliation of the teaching process. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the Secretary of Mera25 is ringing.]] That is why it is worth once again saying that this humiliation of teachers, teaching processes and the status of teacher does not concern - at least initially - the schools you and we of our children, the schools of oligarchy. It is about the private education sector that is tertiary and is aimed at struggling people, as a New Democracy Member who spoke earlier said, to put tens aside to send their child to a private school. With your bill you are strengthening parasitic disciples to invade the area of doronic horse education in this third category private schools, which will be multiplied by the number. You have chosen cynically, Minister, to move away from the wise study of the state and previous governments of the New Democracy to protect the teacher of the private school from deterioration to a private employee. So, with three relentless blows you are hitting the educational process. First, by releasing the redundancies, you abolish the autonomous, the proud teacher. Secondly, by putting dismissal on the employer's pocket and by requiring him to attend the meetings of teachers to monitor what officials, whom he can fire at all times, dismantle collectiveity, abolish free dialogue between teachers. Thirdly, with the same dismissal you have put in the employer's pocket as this bill and the provision of your bill for reduced hours of teaching - and, of course, a reduced wage - if the teacher chooses it, who will choose it? The teacher who now knows with your own bill that he can be fired at any time, without excuse, is telling us that he will voluntarily accept the reduction in teaching hours - and of course of wages - and that this is the definition of volunteering? It's a mafia method. I'm going to propose to you, which you voluntarily accept, because you don't have a choice. This is what you do with the combination of voluntary - supposedly - reduction in teaching hours by the release of redundancies. Minister, having abolished the autonomous, proud teacher, in a conspiracy of private schools, which I call "tritoclata", the long-term impact of the importing flesh will be extended to the other schools. The medium-sized private schools will soon also be contaminated by this flesh, as they will not be competitive, not with regard to their education, but with regard to their costs. And when society a little - a little addicted to the teacher - a pawn, which can be fired at any time, the time will come when the flesh will destroy what is left of the inspired education of enlightened autonomous teachers in the public schools. Really, what will stop you, Minister, in the context of your favourite PPPs, of public-private partnerships, from going to rental teachers in public schools? Why is that in contrast to your attitude? Why don't you suggest a company renting, subsidizing teachers, who will also be subject to the Ministry of Labour, as will the teachers of private schools from today, if you vote on this bill? To subdue them to public schools and thus to have all the teachers, i.e. public, why only privates? - to the Ministry of Labour. Who's gonna stop you from this abrasion? Only us and only the wrath of society. Your conscience has shown that it does not have this ability, these brakes. Work as if you are struggling to become the cynicalest and worst leadership of the Ministry of Education in the post-political period and, apparently, we are waiting for the next bill to be rented and public officials.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u90	Why are we doing this? It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u91	I am very pleased that you can vote on this absurd bill, saying that it does not make sense to what I have just said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u92	Yours is absurd.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u93	Please, can we not have a dialogue?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u94	I have no problem having a dialogue with you. If you get up and answer, I promise you I will answer. You want to do it like that? Finally, it seems - and I have seen it now - that neither your fellow Members of the New Democracy nor formerly Minister for Education, our excellent colleagues in this Chamber - such as Mrs Giannakou, who would never embrace this vulgar privatization that I see here - nor do they seem to be able to convince you that the damage you are doing to education and, in fact, to the future of this place is more long-term than the damage that any other Minister can do. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, in particular, of the Coupling, by voting in favour of this bill you are involved in the construction by law of the fearful heterogeneous teacher, who by definition cannot inspire, can not raise, can not educate the young people and the young people of this country. I don't think you have the right to do that, not even to yourself. You have the opportunity today to write parliamentary history, requiring your Minister to withdraw this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u95	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, could I have the floor for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u97	Here, Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Mr Varoufakis, let me refer to a number of points you have highlighted. Point one: You said in particular: 'But in 'Morai' there is an evaluation system.' Mr Varoufakis, with all due respect, the previous government to which you were a major executive, Minister and member, has sent circulars to deal with evaluation in private schools as if it were a criminal offence. So today, as it is and without this law being passed, there is exactly this real situation that I am describing to you. So what you're saying is not true, which used to be the case. Point 2: You said - if possible - that we abolish collectiveity because we predict the presence of the owner in the school club. Here, Mr President, let me point out to you that once again the party to which you were a party - Mr Friend in particular - had voted for a provision which intended precisely that, namely the owner's presence. What's changing with our bill? It simply adapts if the owner is not a natural person, but is a legal person. So this is in SYRIZA's work, to which you were Minister. Point 3: You said about afternoon activities. But they're normal. I would like to point out to you Article 4, which is currently in force, which specifically stipulates for the afternoon activities, that they are only allowed by lawfulness in the curriculum and the pedagogical content of teaching. By who? Addresses of training. Mr President, this is the case today, without the adoption of this law. Point 4: You said that we were setting up the feared teacher and that there would be no restrictions on this regime. Of course there will be. There are, first of all, the main pillar of our democracy, which is judicial authority. Judicial power, one of the three fundamental pillars of the separation of powers, provides for strict application of labour legislation. There is, firstly, very specific protection, which generally gives labour law, labour law, our courts, to every private worker. Apart from that, however, we are also giving more protection to Article 10(2), which specifically provides for the case of private teachers, which means that only private teachers are protected in the event of unfair practice on the part of the employer. And if, Mr President, you do not believe me, I will read to you the approved worker, Mr Ioannis Souliotis, who, in his article the other day in the Sunday 'Kathemerini', says: 'Why is it unacceptable that the bill should be passed on to private teachers and employed under contracts of dependent private labour and that they should be subject to the existing provisions of the common labour law? Why are the extensive safeguards contained in labour law not sufficient for private teachers, for example by applying the principles of non-use of a managerial right, equal treatment and discrimination, gender equality, the prohibition of unilateral change in the terms of a contract of employment and other protective clauses? How can the Government's intention to apply the constitutional principle of equality, equality between private teachers and other private sector employees be considered unacceptable?' And I will close with this, Mr President. You spoke, too, like the Qualified Opposition, about redundancies. I ask you: why would a school owner want to fire? Why would he want massively to fire teachers? But without teachers he can't do his job, he can't provide the services. The good teacher, Mr. Varoufakis, is the best ad for school. You said earlier that you were a graduate of 'Morai'. You said that in "Morai" there was a very strict evaluation of teachers. So I ask you, if in Moraite a teacher does not do his job, does not provide the education he needs to provide to children, he teaches, but instead of others, what we should do. Should we have him at school? In the end, if we do this, who are we hurting? Do we do to the student, who should be the first concern of all of us here, how will the student receive the best education services? But also to the teacher, why, by sending him a message of quasi permanentity, we don't give him any, but no, motive for improvement? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u99	Mr Varoufakis has the floor for two minutes and, of course, Mrs Kerameos will be speaking again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, you referred to a circular by Mr. Friend when he was Minister. A circular is overturned with a circular. You do not need to legislate on this, for something that you said was the case before Mr Philly's circular. I don't know Mr. Friend's circular. I would like to remind you, in order not to be confused, that I am very contrasted with SYRIZA and I have left and made another party, which has entered the House, because we are in a major conflict of basic programming principles with SYRIZA. So, let me remind you, 'cause sometimes you seem to be forgetting about it. If you had passed a bill here where you were just talking about the extra evaluation in private schools, I would not be opposed to discussing it. I do not think it is necessary, because in the 'College', in the good schools of the oligarchy, as I say, they know and do the evaluation without having to legislate the state. I'm getting you out of here, on the right, as the liberal than you are. You do not need to legislate for evaluation of private schools. They know how to do it. You also referred to the case of the 'Moraidis School'. I remember Antonis Moratis, to answer your question, why would a school chief want to fire a good teacher? Can I tell you why? I'll give you an example. Because this school may not be 'Morai', it may be one of those schools where I was referring to, the many tertiary-classata. He may be an owner and, as you said, he may also be a shareholder and therefore has no need for the mental and educational uplift of children and all he cares about is selling and he has a teacher who can be sixty years old, be an excellent teacher and create problems for the owner, because he requires better working conditions for new entrants, the 20-year-olds. That is why one owner might want to fire an excellent teacher: because he is much more interested in breaking solidarity between the older and the younger than keeping a sixty-year-old, who in a few years' time will lose his pension. You referred to the conventions. And I'm still not going to defend what SYRIZA did. I would just like to say to you, since I referred to the late Antonis Moratis, that when he would not want him to be in the meeting of the teachers. That's only what some people want to do that's what they want to do with the discussions between teachers. Because if the high school and high school owner wants to talk to the teachers, he may well invite them to a staff meeting. It is not necessary for the law and the Minister of Education to impose the compulsory presence of the owner or employer, against the will of the members of the teachers' club. You spoke about equality and referred to a worker. So, in other words, you confirm what I was saying. You insist that a private school teacher is no different from a private employee. In other words, I talked about the difference between the contractor and the builder, who work with bricks, and the teacher, who works with souls, who has to enter the class with the air of man who is not fired at all times and, if he is fired, he has the minister to say "It's okay, you'll go to court, you'll find your right in five years". The system we have had so far was much better. And redundancies were happening. Madam Kerame, I have no objections to being fired by teachers who do not fulfil the conditions of the learning process, but what you do, who introduce dismissal at will, as if he were a contractor dismissing a builder or a banker who fires a bank employee, is the beginning of the creation of a fearful, dependent, heterogeneous teacher, is the beginning of the end of the education system in that country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u101	You have the floor, Minister, but please, because you will speak properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u102	I will be very brief, Mr President. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr President, for your comments. Four small points. First of all, what you said about the case where a owner would like to lay off, the case you are referring to, since it is unfair practice, is for this reason a number of case-law, Mr President, as to how such a complaint constitutes an unlawful complaint, an abusive complaint and is controlled in this light. You said that was the same thing as private teachers and other workers. Oh, no. Why? Because there is a fundamental difference and it stems from Article 16(8) of the Constitution, which provides for state supervision over private training. How is it based on what is the private teacher finally different? In that the State oversees overall issues relating to its assets. For example, matters relating to the annual yearbook, recruitment, promotion, licences, replacements, remuneration, minimum wages, disciplinary control, all these are matters regulated by a special scheme, because Article 16(8) provides for precisely a special regime for private teachers. But the Constitution also provides for something else. It also provides for something called 'business freedom'. And the check for all of us in here is to combine these constitutional checks, that is to say, to combine the cheque for state supervision over private schools, at the same time combining it with business freedom. And we believe that what we are doing goes on to private teachers in labour law, with all the protection of case law and, furthermore, sets out something more. What's the more? It puts a specific case which was not in existence, a special case now in existence in law and does not depend on the caselaw, which expressly refers to unfair practices on the part of the employer, unfair practices, possible empathy, vengeance and so on. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We are therefore giving a clear signal about such complaints. And I'm closing up with this. You have asked, Mr President, why we need to legislate. Mr President, when you believe in something, like the New Democracy believes in the institution of evaluation, we will legislate on it, so that it can be implemented everywhere and always. Assessment of educational work, school units and teachers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u104	Excuse me, Mr. Varoufakis, it can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u105	For 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u106	In other words, you will speak, the Minister will speak again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u107	Twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u108	Okay, speak 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u109	It's really gonna be 20 seconds. Minister, since you do not withdraw the article that releases redundancies, Article 16 of the Constitution, and all the others you say about supervision, it's an empty shirt. When the other guy knows he can be on the street and then he'll have to go to court like a bank officer, what you said is actually undone. Get this article back.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u110	Let's move on, I think. The time has come for Mr Chrysomalis, who is patiently awaiting Mrs Makri from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, before you leave the Chamber, I should like to say that, because of a profession, I work with builders every day, I respect them and honour them, and it is important that you do not underestimate them or consider them to be a second-class citizen. As regards the fact that you want to renounce your relationship with SYRIZA today, no one forgets that you helped him go up to power and together you destroyed and did this great damage to the country in the first half of the year. So don't dismiss your responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, the current legislative initiative of the Ministry of Education has, as we see, been a first-class opportunity for Civic Anti-Civilisation to remember its ideological strangles of governance, but also to play in these players. The proper interpretation of the Constitution - from you, in fact, that you said you would also be every word of the Constitution - do not forget it - and the selective reference to justice and its decisions is one of your dominant features, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA. And you believe that Mrs Kerameos' legislative initiative is a privileged field for you to denounce so-called neoliberal practices and practices in favour of the owners of private schools and, of course, against the workers of teachers. So let's explain: The Constitution in paragraph 8 of Article 16 states explicitly that the conditions and conditions for granting authorisations for the establishment and operation of non-State education courses, the requirements relating to supervision on them and the service situation of their teaching staff, are laid down by law. This means freedom for us in the New Democracy to establish private education, which will be part of the educational system in the country, to award equal qualifications, following the curriculum of public schools. At the same time, however, they will operate under the rules of the free economy, they will have the freedom to form additional actions and educational activities, and will have the freedom to function in accordance with the general supervisory principles imposed by the Ministry of Education, but without such authorities ending up in suffocating control, which does not allow private education to develop. On the other hand, you, SYRIZA colleagues and Mr. 4415/2016 - if I remember very well - Mr. Friend, you tried to do your ideas of suffocating private education, actively intervening in the option of selecting and practicing educational staff and in the possibilities of differentiating their educational programme, which is an important advantage for private schools. It is interesting - and I invite you to do so - that you refer to the minutes of the Committee on Education, Youth, Education and the Media, in order to admire the dreaming of your Member, Mr Mitafidis, who recalled the struggle - to say it self-evidently - about the socialization of private education and the nationalisation of private schools. How nice of that! Private education, ladies and gentlemen, must be a choice aimed at those who wish and can offer their children more than the public system. Our struggle - and we are giving it this struggle - should be the equalisation of the two systems at the level of the services provided and not the strangulation of private education. Already we as a New Democracy and as a government have begun efforts to improve public schools, create standards, a key strap of social mobility. And we are moving in this direction, namely to improve and treat public schools with good private schools. We have not heard you and your rapporteur say anything in that direction. On the other hand, a lot of discussion took place on the evaluation of private teachers and, of course, on their employment status. The Constitution provided for the service of private teachers and the case law of the Council of State, I think, cleared the scene. The supervision of the Ministry of Education in relation to the right of the owner to choose the educational staff is given, of course, in terms of conditions and conditions. Obviously, not in terms of the conditions you dream of, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, but up to a limit that provides that the conditions and conditions are dictated on grounds of public interest relating to ensuring and improving the training provided by private schools and that they do not in any way detract from the constitutionally protected freedom of establishment of private schools and the resulting freedom of the teacher's owner to choose the teaching staff of his school. Just simple and clear. As far as their assessment is concerned, this is obviously also an internal process of the private school, which, although it is, as a process, under the supervision of the State, is, however, in any case, the result of the internal needs and requirements of the private school. After all, it is well known that your intolerance to the concept of evaluation and your ideological torque in the last four and a half years that you have been governing SYRIZA - ANEL in self-assessment and self-recognizing systems of the value and competence of teachers, as if the merit is a personal matter of the assessor, and not the return of the value that is due to him precisely because he has provenly achieved in his place. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, private education is an acquis of our liberal society. It offers a public asset under the supervision of the State, but it does not cease to function in accordance with the rules and logic of the market. I would say, in fact, that this function is making it competitive and attractive to the parents who are looking for the best for their children. This advantage will not be put off by us. On the contrary, we'll let it grow. However, if we want to be fair and fair and to see the parents of the children who go to private schools as Greek taxpayers who are, Madam Minister, we must give these children free of charge the books they are given in public schools. It's moral, and there's got to be a law. Of course, quality education will be developed, protecting the quality of the educational services provided, always respecting the education body's right to define the guidance of the school, always protecting the worker in education and preserving his rights, as we do for all Greek workers in the private sector. I am sure that, at the same time, the effort of the Ministry of Education through the creation of more experimental and model schools will lead to a strong, parallel to private schools, a polo for our children, which will continue to promote excellence, which you so hate. Why, ladies and gentlemen of the Left, as the left-wing left-wing, beyond doubt, philosopher and sociologist Pier Bourdié, is this excellence that enables children of a rural or micro-enterprise family to break the bonds of their social origin and to win their positive distinction and dreams. And the grandson of a countryguard, father of eight children, and the grandson of a disobedient war and farmer, father of four children. My parents through public and standard schools, the "Evangelical" - and Mr. Friends has finished it - managed to follow their dreams and offer their children the best for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u112	Mrs Makrhei has the floor from New Democracy and will be followed by Mr Kallianos, also by the New Democracy. Here, Mrs. Makre, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, over the past few months, the Ministry of Education has been striving to implement a series of extremely important, rational and innovative legislative initiatives, absolutely necessary, in order to modernise education. This is a reform that was extremely high in the election commitments of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy, since the upgrading of the educational process is the main lever of the country's development. You started, Minister, very right from the top of the pyramid, namely from the National Higher Education Authority, the restructuring, upgrading of it, so that higher education institutions and research centres can be transformed into pillars - both locally and at regional level - that will develop and improve cooperation and networking with the world of production and entrepreneurship, with social bodies and with internal and external institutions. You continued with the upgrading of the public school, covering all levels of infancy and primary and secondary education, with which you have arranged to involve the school's declining and declining course, which in recent years had been affected by the logic of minor effort, equilibrium downwards and demonization of excellence. Today is the third legislative reform initiative on the modernisation of private education and private school and on the protection of legitimate and decent institutions - I imagine these are the 'protocols', said by the President of Mera25 - on the armouring and liberalisation of private education from the bonds of state bureaucracy and dependence. With this intervention you complete and complete your previous initiative for the new school, giving it features of active and timely driving force for the recovery and development of the site. Ladies and gentlemen, the new legislative initiative at last frees private education from ideological distortions that have been perpetrated and made difficult, if they did not cancel, the sacred and important mission of private schools, namely the provision of high-level education. It is released from suffocating and centralized control, which drowned every breath of initiative and activity. The Ministry is now fertilely intervening in this sensitive area, which has suffered innumerable damage to the illusions and ideologies of powers and intervenes only for reasons of legality and not for reasons of feasibility. In the past, there have been responsible ones who - others with more and less enthusiastic - mystical and anachronistic did not strengthen education, but their control. They did not encourage innovative initiatives, but added bureaucracy. Administrative interventions and procedural restrictions perpetrated this sensitive area, which has other rhythms and designs than those who want total prevalence and often insufferable state intervention. This misunderstanding and in the terms of the 1970s, concept of private education, whose institutional framework is now absolutely anachronistic and at the same time disappointing in relation to what is happening in the rest of Europe, comes to correct and remove from the distortions the new draft law we are discussing today. The aim is therefore to reduce State intervention and strengthen private initiative. The state is not enforced everywhere by the stagnation. Only the law. The aim is also to strengthen the essential autonomy of the school unit and to increase flexibility in the organisation of the school and the functioning of the school unit. It is intended to form and organise more freely and more efficiently the extended timetable, providing additional educational services, such as strengthening teaching, additional teaching support, strengthening language learning, and freedom to make better use of facilities and infrastructures. At the same time, it seeks to manage human resources more effectively, because teachers give a signal of the quality and best functioning of the school. These scientists, these spiritual people, must be appreciated by society and protected by the state. This bill takes care of this need for the benefit of all students, especially students. The aim is to reduce working hours and additional paid employment. Finally, the evaluation - both possessed and necessary - is also carried out in the public school, which is required for the benefit of both the educational community and the final recipient, the trainee. The evaluation is never, ever, at the expense of good and friendly teachers. The judicial review insurer of any abusive behaviour at their expense rationalises the system, reduces distortions, covers any affected persons. It was mentioned in detail and in detail in this respect by the Minister but also by our rapporteur. I also do not want to omit the correct prediction of the teaching of special courses in public schools, which helps to curb misconduct. The draft law under consideration is only a bridge from rigidity to flexibility, from over-concentration to decentralisation, from questioning to trust, in order to protect the right of parents to choose how and where their children will study. The state's responsibility is to tackle the private education of thousands of Greeks on an equal footing. With a great sense of responsibility, with the protection of teachers and teachers, with the support of all those involved in private schools, pupils, parents, teachers and owners - Mr. Chrysemalis quite rightly said that the parents pay for books, they have no tax exemption and they pay for a provision that the state does not repay them - but also in a spirit of freedom of initiative, what is involved in private education. After all, in the modern sense, private school is nothing but a school between the model - as far as possible to excellence - and an experimental one, because in practice it precedes developments and educational trends, trying new methods, expanding objects and adopting procedures that are applied internationally. You have taken over, Minister, your responsibilities and protected your initiative, but you have also shielded operating private education. We must all congratulate you and strengthen this effort by voting in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u114	Mr. Callianos from New Democracy. Here comes Mr. Marcus from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much, Mr President. This Legislative initiative of the Ministry of Education for Private Schools comes after the adoption of the draft law on the upgrading and modernisation of public education. I have to tell you that I have been a teacher in private schools for too many years. So I know exactly what's going on all that time there. That is how the government sees the educational system as a whole, because only in this light can the debate we are having today be held. I remember it was about 2007, 2008, when I went through an evaluation of an important educational institution, which was unfortunately now closed, "New Geneia Ziridis". It was a specific process. It followed a second stage and a third stage of interviews. It was very painful. In the fourth stage I was put in a class at the time as a teacher of mathematics in a specific class, where back, at the end of the room, as I remember very well, he was the school manager, the high school chief, the high school principal, in particular, and important staff at the school who then saw the lesson I was doing. After various reviews and such procedures the happy day came for informing me that I was really hired to attend that school. I have worked for several years and I am very sorry that this school has had this particular ending, as we have all learned in the last few years. I would like to say that these procedures were exceptional and will continue to be carried out in private schools, after the specific interventions of our Minister, Mr Kerameus. It is very specific and very important that there is freedom at each private school to work as it wants. It is very specific and very important that every private school should be given the time and the opportunity to work with the rules it wants. You know, competition is being strengthened in this way and when competition is strengthened, all private schools go upwards. That is very reasonable and I think we all understand that. Only in this light can the debate we are having today, with the overall picture and according to the previous draft law that we had passed a while ago belatedly can we also have the debate today. The education system, ladies and gentlemen, consists of two pillars, public and private, and should therefore be supported and modernised equally so that children - whether they are in public or in private schools - can make full use of their possibilities. This bill is a bill based on a basic value, the one I told you earlier, on freedom. It is a liberal bill and not a neoliberal one, as I have heard many times in the committees say. Do you know what neoliberal means? It means extreme liberal. I don't think we're classified as a government as extreme liberal. I don't think we're labeled as neoliberal. I guess he's confusing us with some other parties. So it is a clearly liberal bill, contrary to the previous suffocating framework that had been introduced by the previous government into private education, by implementing a policy of ruthless state intervention, which, at the end of the day, was served by SYRIZA colleagues? Well, not the kids and the teachers. It only served your ideas and your aversion to anything that has to do with the private initiative, but mainly with freedom to choose. These are, of course, very important factors. After all, you have proved it in the previous bill too, unfolding it completely in the debate on standards and experimental schools. You have also unfolded your hypocrisy, however, by voting against the possibility of raising the children of people's families, seeking to throw the ladder of social mobility that standard schools serve. In every policy you attempt to equilibrium down. Unfortunately, you also have the same idea in today's debate on private schools, in which you have tried to deprive all freedom and autonomy that is necessary for the development not only of private schools but also of children. This bill, therefore, comes to create the necessary space of autonomy, limiting barren stateism, interventionism, as well as the contingencies and limitations that existed in the context of operation, the management of human resources, the weekly timetables and the use of facilities. In contrast to all this, this bill aims to reduce state intervention, strengthen the essential autonomy of the school unit, strengthen flexibility, organise and operate schools and manage human resources more effectively. In short, it frees private schools from the suffocating state corset. I am sure that the benefits that will result from this legislative change will soon be understood by children and children will tell us themselves. I insist on the children, because when we talk about education, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, as I have said before, we are actually talking about children, the future of our country. That is why it is regrettable that we should go into discussions that many times have to do not with how we will help children build the future they want, but with how we support trade interests, which many times - and we must be sincere in this - oppose any change that promotes the future and upgrades the education provided. This draft law actually upgrades the education provided, both by introducing a system of evaluation of the educational work and by providing a greater degree of freedom and autonomy. But benefits will not only be seen by children, but also by teachers themselves, as they end the two-year contracts, which - let us not hide - made teachers hostages. There will now be contracts for indefinite duration from the outset, thus strengthening long-term work, which you are hitting us for. You say we want the teachers fired. On the contrary, we want to. We want the contracts of indefinite duration to have a specific contract that enables them to make their dreams a reality and work as much as possible in private schools, if they are good, of course. For she said earlier, Mrs Kerameou said: "If a teacher does not serve the interests of the school." In what sense is the interests? If he's good at his lesson. If this is not what he was hired for, why should he be a private professor? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. There are also new job opportunities for teachers with an additional fee. It is therefore a bill that has at its core our students and teachers, giving more freedoms to exploit their capabilities, more freedoms in schools regarding the management of staff, activities and facilities, and also to parents, who have every right to choose what they consider best for the education of their children, parents and not the Minister of Education. What in the end scares you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, is precisely the freedom of choice. The rest you're referring to are just pretexts to justify your phobia. And you fear the freedom of choice, because you are quite simply afraid of rejecting your ideas, which want the state ruler and not the servant of the citizens. I told you earlier that for 15 years I have been a teacher in private schools, mid-education schools, private schools. I saw how the system works, too. It is, of course, another matter. However, I have been a professor for several years in private schools and have seen from within what the pathogens had to be rooted out. Mrs Kerameau is currently helping with this bill and, of course, Mrs Zacharakis and the entire Ministry team. To conclude, let me be forgiven by the President, but I will use a little bit of a meteorologist's capacity, and I would like from the Step of the House to inform you, and I would like to ask you all to take care of me, because difficult days are coming from Thursday and then. Thursday, Friday and Saturday comes a heater, which will affect most parts of the country. You should also inform your regions of the competent bodies and local authorities. There's a strong heat coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u116	Air?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Philie, there's a very strong air of seven to eight, so we have to be very careful about the fires. Let Greece not burn anymore. I'm saying, there's the Minister here. Everyone who has to listen to me is listening to me. So I inform you that there are three difficult days on Thursday, Friday and Saturday. Since Sunday, the temperature has fallen and possibly raincoats come. So I informed you meteorologically. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u118	I think Mr. Calliano did well and he informed us. I imagine the government must take this into account first and foremost. Of course, all of us! Mr. Markos from SYRIZA followed by Mr. Viliardos from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, starting with my position, I feel the need - and I would ask you to allow my personal tone - to place myself on the incident that I was involved in last week. I'll speak clearly and without spins. Yeah, I lost my temper. I'm sorry and I'm apologizing for that. I lost my temper, when I heard they called me "diplified and muddled". I have not had any inappropriate expressions, but the intensity of my reaction and the gestures have given me an opportunity for interpretations that were not in my intention. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Let's come to the bill we're talking about. Today's New Democracy policy comes to regain the thread of a neoliberal attack on public education where it was left in 2014. I am sorry to be sorry for the fellow Member who spoke before me, but it is a purely neoliberal policy and I will be explained. At that time, it was exhausted in the rapid deterioration of funding and expenditure, the dismantling of labour relations and the persecution of staff, teachers and administration. The cynical economic Darwinism that you want to apply with systematic consistency and unique perseverance to education magnifies inequalities and causes tectonic social retractions. The sociology, which you so much do not like, Minister, is exactly what it teaches that Darwinism - which means that the strongest, the strongest, the most resilient - is that societies, as civilised organisations, must not allow this and create balanced conditions. The spiritual mother of this policy is Margaret Thatcher, who was strongly accused of the prevalence of insurmountable individualism and the limitation of the social state. It aimed at general privatization of education, with an argument about the right of parents to choose a school for their children, the same right that you bring as an argument. This policy was pursued by Mr Blair in terms of education, establishing the so-called 'academy model', as much as he wanted to present a more philosophical profile, with an increase in the percentage of GDP allocated to education. Blair and Thatcher: Does this continuity of understanding remind you of anything about our things? There is an abundance of data that these academies did not improve the education of the children of society, and similar studies for the similar schools in the United States, which started at about the same time as Thatcher, as Reagan. Entrepreneurial colleges were created in the course, which were the main objective and motivation not to improve education, the weakest social groups, but to maximise the profit to the detriment of children's education. Overpriced, bad work relationships, very few work over two years at the same school, excessive pay for the executives of the companies concerned, preservative there - even worse - up to a reactionary program. Do you know that many of them want to teach Darwin's theory? There are scandals, mismanagement, commercial exploitation. Is that freedom? May I remind you of the recent bundle, in which everyone mentioned, of the historical training courses, after mismanagement, which caused serious financial problems and debts of great sums in banks and insurance funds? He left on the street students and teachers. How will the free market regulate the sensitive area of education? Evidently in terms of adaptation to the specific needs of production. The current Ministry, which has slowly been euphemistically euphemistically "Education" does not take into account the country's special, economic and social requirements. Greece, both historically and for data reasons, is not the England of Thatcher and Blair. The apathy for the lessons of sociology that it takes on and the strategy of the Ministry, in addition to the programme that is being implemented, leads to this. This deception will prove fatal for your policies. And you'll find that in front of you. We hope that it will not prove fatal and will fight for this, for society. Previous speakers have asked about the occupations in schools. Have you wondered, ladies and gentlemen, why, in the last four or five years, we haven't had any occupations in schools, despite the fact that some superintendent Macedonians have tried to do this? We don't have any occupations because there was no "Arsen" bill that had come back since the occupations began. And that bill asked children to give tests for fourteen lessons in order to get into the grandchildren at the school they were seeking. That's why we don't have any occupations. It is not that we have no occupations "why SYRIZA was instigating". We had occupations because there was the objective problem and which these policies created. I'll say something else. All colleagues here from the Conservative Party are proud of Cyprus. Hold on, ladies and gentlemen, with your pride in Cyprus and the private education programme it has. There are many testimonies that his quality is low and that there is and dominates the financial tuition. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will not be late, Mr President. I'll be done in a minute. And because you are one of those who watch the market, you will see that Cyprus' postgraduate programs have already been devalued. They're programs that someone needs to get a card. And in the choices you excellent programs, the Cyprus programs define them as the last ones. It is not a good example of Cyprus. And remember that, her evolution will be even worse. I'm ending up with a personal tone again. Based on last week's episode, the Government Representative announced the abolition of the Central Board of Health, of which I have the honour of being four and a half years President. It is the time of a specified death, since, for a year now, the Minister for Health has announced it to me, since my presence in the position of his Presidency has not been pleasing. And as a result, he said he would abolish it. I hereby declare to you from this Step that I will present my resignation tomorrow morning by the President of the Central Health Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u120	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u121	And I call on the Minister, Mr Kikilis, from this step, not to abolish an extremely useful and highly productive institution at this stage that I leave him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u122	I call on Mr Vassiliardo, the Greek Parliamentary Representative. Mr. Villardo, I will give you half the time because your President has spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u123	Yes, Mr. President, I have nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u124	Yeah. You're entitled to six minutes plus three minutes that's the second and go by and say. You have the floor, Mr. Villardo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of Greek Solution referred to the importance of contributing private education to our country's GDP, especially today when Greece is economically in the worst economic position in its history, mainly as a result of the signing of the PSI. We recall that before the PSI we had every opportunity to avoid the rolling bankruptcy that we are experiencing today and we will experience for many decades, accompanied by the pillaging of our public assets, by their mortgage for ninety-nine years, by the auctioning of private property, by the collapse of our standard of living and much more. What were these possibilities? Firstly, deferring payments and negotiating with private individuals, then, creditors, with the aim of deleting a large part of them, as has happened in many countries in the past, within the Eurozone, of course, which certainly did not prohibit this. Secondly, alternatively, the conversion of all our debts into national currencies, outside the Eurozone this time, with a simple decision of the House, since 90% were national law. Since then, unfortunately, all the doors have been closed. Of course, we could then serve our national currency inflation, as has happened very often in the past. He also stressed the example of Cyprus in our programme, because private education there contributes to 5% of its GDP, which would represent EUR 9 billion in Greece, although our country has far greater potential, if anything, because of its enormous cultural wealth. Finally, he stressed the need to link education more generally to the labour market. Moreover, the launching of proper vocational training after the 3rd grade, as is the case in all advanced countries. Incidentally, the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative's reference to Turkey's financial support and his wish not to experience difficult financial problems seemed strange to us, since no one wishes to strengthen his enemy, let alone Turkey, which is escalating its challenges and claims against us. Finally, it referred to the grant of the EUR 19.5 billion Reconstruction Fund, of which EUR 19.5 billion must be deducted from our participation in the repayment of the EUR 750 billion loan, which is estimated at 1.67%. While the rest are loans, as well as the normal NSRF and the CFP, reminding that only from the NSRF have invaded Greece in the past around 200 billion euros, which were largely wasted by the corrupt party client state. We did not refer anywhere to parties, since we all know who ruled in these times, supplementing that today's Civic Opposition gave Greece the graceful shot, especially in the first half of 2015. Let's get to the point now. The Ministry of Education has so far submitted the following main draft laws, which characterise the political direction of the New Democracy. First, Law 4653/2020 on the evaluation of higher education institutions and research funds, which opened the way to reducing the funding of educational institutions, HEIs. While respecting their diplomas with those of colleges and TEIs professionally, noting the existence of some provisions in development law, Law 4635/2019. Secondly, L.4692/2020 with the upgrading of the school, with which he promoted the change of the programme in primary schools, such as the increase in language courses at the expense of others and the creation of more school standards as a kind of private for many. With foreign-language now, as well as the extractive arrangements for residence permits for third-country nationals in bills such as L.4666/2020, conditions have been created for the development of a transuniversity system, both in HEIs and in colleges, as private HEIs have not been allowed by the Revision of the Constitution. Continuing, with this draft law, the arrangements for the benefit of the private sector are being completed by restoring some possible injustices, as well as improving the competitiveness of private schools, since more standards and experiments will now be established, which have the same object to a significant extent. Today, sixty standards and experiments exist, while under the recent law of the Ministry of Education, they will be increased to sixty-two. But the conversion of many experimental models and the establishment of young people in the province. All of this had to a certain extent been announced in the New Democracy's 20th-page programme, the special page of which we will be tabling in the Minutes. In the contents of today's bill, while the first ten articles are in a reasonable context for private education, for example in terms of the exploitation of the facilities and the expanded courses then, mainly when it comes into work relationships, it has a neoliberal character clearly in the sense that everything, tuition fees, the number of pupils and industrial relations, are freely left to supply and demand processes, without any state regulation. In relation to the arrangements for the operation of private schools, they are governed by a business logic, which is reasonable if it is to stimulate smaller private schools, but not the larger ones. We must stress here that not all private schools are addressed to the elites, since there are many smaller schools for the middle-class, which wants a better environment, as well as an improved level of teaching for its children. This includes those private for special schoolchildren, as well as foreigners, who also serve foreign-language children, while being supported by embassies. Private schools, however, spread to the province mainly after 1999 and the occupation movement, mainly left inspiration. Further, compared to abroad, Greece has a very low penetration rate of private schools, just 5%, in total pupils, when the average of the European Union is 15% and the OECD 18%, as we will testify in the Minutes. In many foreign countries, however, the public is involved in the financing of private schools, as are we going to testify in the Minutes, and in Greece at all. In any case, the cost of education in Greece, both in terms of public and private, is lower than the average of the European Union, on the basis of a study by IOBE and the table we will table in the Minutes. In other words, at EUR 6,314 with 2011 figures, with regard to private education, and at EUR 4.350 for public education, without the cost of the high-cost schools that are heavily burdened by Greeks. Therefore, this should concern us in particular, increasing expenditure on education and creating conditions that will not compel parents to send their children to the schools, substantiating that it is only free of charge that public education is not public education in Greece. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] Finally, private schools have a better performance in terms of both the pan-Hellenic and the 2015 PISA competition, in which the public schools had a lower score than the private, 452 compared with 520. In any case, private people survived as a institution in the crisis, with the reductions in tuition, where some may have gone bankrupt, but the number of their students remained unchanged in the ninety - three thousand. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Because now our party is in favour of private education, even at the EIT level, we are obviously not opposed to the institution, as long as it serves the objectives of the national state and also of our country's development goals, without pro-neoliberal globalisation or implementing it, as in this draft law. It was one of the main reasons why we were troubled by his vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u126	Mrs Karamanlis from New Democracy has the floor and Mrs Christidou follows from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, education in Greece is characterised by the emphasis on the control of procedures rather than the results produced. The Greek education system is too centralised. The result of this approach is the discouragement of creative initiatives, the creation of irrational distortions and, ultimately, low efficiency. It is characteristic that, according to an OECD survey, Greece takes the last place among the countries of this organisation in terms of the satisfaction of citizens of the quality of the education system and of schools. That is why our government has taken up a number of legislative initiatives concerning education, all along with our election programme. Private schools operate under a suffocating and centralised framework of state intervention. As regards teaching staff and educational programmes, there is a lack of effective human resources management and a lack of flexibility in weekly timetables and additional educational and other activities. The control of private schools is also suffocating with regard to the labour relations of teachers. The recruitment of a talented teacher to a private school is as difficult as the removal of a bad teacher, which makes the actual evaluation of their work too difficult to be impossible. In addition, school owners, despite the fact that they operate in the private free economy, do not in fact have the possibility to exercise their management rights, on the contrary, even in the appointment of managers of the school units they have set up. The director, the teachers' association, the parents' association, i.e. all interested members, are unable to incorporate educational objects into the school programme beyond some voluntary actions this afternoon. Teachers simply implement in a strictly defined orbit the Ministry of Education's detailed programme. Therefore, should state hugging not be reduced by strengthening the essential autonomy of the school unit, as regards its organisation and functioning and more efficient management of human resources in line with the needs and specificities and philosophy of the school? According to the draft law, which forms part of private education and removes the suffocating framework of state intervention with that of state supervision, structures, educational work and teachers of private schools shall be assessed in a proportionate manner by the criteria for assessing the structures of the educational work and the teachers of public schools. Additional evaluation criteria may be applied by private schools to allow the freedom of schools to deepen their physical knowledge, their specificities, the geographical location of the school unit and the specific needs of the local society. It has been said that a clear framework should be established for these additional criteria, in which private training courses will move. We are, however, legislating on the basis of the context: confidence, flexibility, protection. Confidence, therefore, in school institutions to create self-regulation and self-assessment conditions, as they know the space within which they create and work, their needs and specificities. It is also clear that employers' decisions concerning the management of the human resources of private schools are not allowed to infringe the relevant provisions of labour law and the more specific provisions for teachers in private schools. Let us not forget that the effective control of any abuse of the complaint of teachers' contracts of employment is fully guaranteed by the courts responsible for this. Given the possibility of questioning the validity of any complaint and of extensive protection, which caselaw gives to all workers, what is the reason to derogate from the general provisions of labour law for private teachers? To date, the competition distorts, in practice, the incentives of private schools owners to employ teachers for longer or from the outset for an indefinite period and to invest in their training and professional development in a longer-term horizon. We trust the owner of a private training course, which operates on the best basis for students first. As part of the autonomous operation of the educational unit, we give it the opportunity to recruit teachers who give added value to the school. Is it not in the interests of students, above all, and of the same educational unit as a whole, to recruit and continue to cooperate with worthy and competent teachers and to create an environment of continuous improvement? On the other hand, teachers are also protected against illegal and abusive behaviour. From the bill there are significant benefits for students, teachers and schools. For teachers by providing additional job opportunities, with the possibility of increasing their income, as teachers are given the opportunity to work in additional training activities after the compulsory or extended hours at an additional fee, and to work at an additional fee in the school unit and during the summer. For schools by providing greater freedom and more choices in the organisation and functioning of the school unit, in the management of human resources, in the use of buildings, by simplifying the operating framework, by providing greater flexibility and less restrictions. This bill modifies our political choice to free the private school from suffocating state embrace, overregulation and limiting its capabilities. We seek private school to acquire greater flexibility and autonomy, to be able to develop its multifaceted role, to strengthen its innovations. All of this always in the context of strict implementation of the law and anticipated state supervision. I conclude with what Eleftherios Venizelos said at the inauguration of the "Benakeios Teaching" of "Athens College": "In the private training courses are possible as the largest and most successful innovations take place, because private training courses are carried out only under the supervision of the State and comply only with its general directions, they have the freedom of the public and can therefore make greater progress." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u128	Mrs Christidou from SYRIZA has the floor, and then Mrs Vetta also follows from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary a bill which is being circumvented at the expense of the students with basic teaching principles and 'necessary' basic labour rights of teachers working in private schools. This is a bill, which is payment of letters to the owners, whose time requirements have been fully accepted by the Minister, without even keeping the pretexts. And as if that were not enough, the Ministry's leadership chose to be aggressive at the last meeting of the Committee on Educational Affairs, where he said that he feels creepy and shocked three days after the hearing of bodies, because the representative of private schools owners allegedly complained that SYRIZA's policy was to upgrade public education so that we can get there, he says, to the point that private education is not even needed. Look at the so-called complaint, as it appears in the minutes, has not even dared itself to repeat it, but the dear Minister reiterated it as proof of the great ideological difference that separates the neoliberal space, which you support with passion, from our own left and progressive ideas. So let's not get tired of the Ministry. We first confess, without the lies that have been heard all these days. We really want quality public education for all children and not education - goods for parents, whether because they have economic comfort or because with a thousand or two deprivations they send their children to private schools. And, above all, addressing them, the last parents, who care about the education of their son and the education of their daughter, to these parents who recognize the value of the good of education and undergo economic sacrifices, to sacrifices of life in her name, to these parents, like my own parents, I have to take the risk bell with the SYRIZA MPs. Ask yourself: How will the instructor who knows he can be fired at all times, because no law will protect him against the demands of any parent, any fan of the type of Papastavros "surely, of course", who will answer the phone asking for dismissal, for example, as does the comic film, otherwise, "The wood has come out of heaven"? Ask yourself: How will the educator, whom no law will protect against the demands of the schoolteacher, partner, shareholder? Because, indeed, here we are not only involved in school owners, we also have shareholders. Legal person, you say. So how do you like the shareholder's participation in this school, in the business school, in meetings, for example, of the teachers' club? What did you think at the time of a pedagogical process of school shareholders, who have never been in a school class or who have been last set up twenty or twenty-five years ago, to speak to your new law and be able to explain what the school needs in relation to its clients? Watch out, not the students, who are supposed to have them at the heart of your bill, because the students are facing them as customers. That's the students, the clients. This is also the vision of the Minister and does not hide it: the constitutional requirement of the free exercise of the business. She invokes every time from the Step. He is failing, however, to tell us and to tell you that the private school - a multi-shop of education which he plans to gradually create, with fewer shapes, will fly a lot of small schools out of the market. But, in the name of our friends, in the name of the 'logues', let the free market go. Otherwise, for business! So wonder how the teacher, who can at any time be asked to accept, voluntarily, a reduction in working hours, so that he can be given part of his hours to another newly recruited, cheaper employee and not an educational employee? Cheapier, obedient. Do you really want teachers, ladies and gentlemen? Is that what we want? Teaching defenseless, with plunged backs, subject to all kinds of blackmail? The Ministry claims that the regulation allows for the removal of the poor teacher from the classroom. He claims that this was not possible until now. The Minister has already told us that we do not have, he says, confidence in justice, which controls redundancies, and that we want private schools free of charge, locked up in public and state control. The Minister's lying. He pretends he does not know that there is a legal framework in place under the SYRIZA process of dismissal of teachers. There is a committee, ladies and gentlemen, composed of three former judges, servants of the Labour Dispute Division, designated by a three-member Board of Directors of the Court of First Instance, an independent committee, which is not appointed by the Minister, as Mrs Keramea said in her speech. We are also wondering whether, in turn, we should be shocked by the fact that the Minister has no confidence in this independent judicial committee, which was considering the substance or the arbitrary nature of the redundancies? Even the representative of private schools owners, despite the justifications he used because of his party status, even he admitted that, in the vast majority of cases where they themselves came to the committee with a request for the dismissal of an instructor, even this was accepted in most cases. But this safety test, like any kind of labour right, causes allergy to your neoliberal mind. Thus, the new regulation in Article 10 instead of judiciary control, all it brings is the possibility of full immunity to the redundancies of teachers in private schools. And that's something that doesn't creep out the Minister. We are therefore provoking it, since it has absolute confidence in justice - as we do - let it keep the Independent Committee of Primary Experts in Labour Law which is now in existence and which has examined the differences between employers and teachers. But it will not be kept, because it is obvious who wants to "deplore" justice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just a minute! Of course, that, ladies and gentlemen, is not the only gift to the 'weighers'. In the name of allegedly combating suffocating state hug, the obligation to submit the private school to the Regional Education Department a list of the number of pupils participating in the off-school activities and the list of the names of teachers responsible for implementing these activities is abolished. So it is freed - and keep this - completely black undeclared work is allowed to hide insurance contributions and serves to undo teachers, who will be able to work in a 'ladder' hours. This is one of the most genuine neoliberal arrangements that allowed the owners of many private schools to open champagne when they read it. Of these, however, we are not going to drink, ladies and gentlemen. And to remind you that this is how you opened champagne with another law some of your bankers and now came the two court orders and judged the law of amputation of the bank executives unconstitutional. SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen - I am closing with this, Mr President - as a government, has brought laws in favour of education and not in favour of some friends. And because we are consistent with our understanding, defending education as a valuable asset for all children and public and private schools, we will vote against this bill, as you are also aware that the whole of society is voting against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u130	Mrs. Vetta has the floor from SYRIZA. Mr. Famelos will be followed by SYRIZA, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill proves once again that education for the government is a product, like everything else. It can be sold or purchased, depending on the price one is willing to pay. Teachers are consumable, students are customers and parents are inextricably donors to the demands of the private school market. In other words, although the government is already applying it in practice, it could abolish the Ministry of Education and integrate all the responsibilities into the Ministry of Development. After all, you no longer have a plan and a care for education, as the market regulates it all. After all, as you said in public, it's anachronism to prevent the schoolmaster from doing what he wants with his employees, students and their parents. Everything's his and he's handling it as he wants. Moreover, as was seen at the hearing of the bodies, the transparent supporters of the bill, I would say that the representatives of the school owners were the quasi-economists. These rumors rumored the triumphant krone about "soviety" and "free" during SYRIZA's rule, then their distinguished interlocutors were the Troikas, and today they are the Government of the New Democracy, which they are also funding, as they themselves were gladly admitted last Friday. Why are they doing this? Because it's their right. I copied from the Minutes: 'What will each one do with his wallet is his own account'. That's what the representative of school owners said. Ladies and gentlemen, after health, culture, energy comes quickly to deforestation of education. We've been waiting for it. Now Greek society sees it. To repeat something that has already been heard, but it is important. In the consultation there was a great deal of comment, more than a thousand five hundred comments, in their overwhelming majority negative. You, however, do not care about the basis of the educational community, as you described the comments as hypocritical. When reality doesn't agree with us, the worse the reality of Breech. This is your moto both in education and everywhere. Before I begin to comment on the points in the bill at issue, I would like to refer to a point of order, but it is not. The bill was filed two days after the school was closed, and three days before the closure of the House, late July, was voted almost in secret. Immediately before the House closed down in August last year - the BSE amendment on redundancies for workers, unilateral redundancies, as you will recall. You are doing the same today, as you hand over private school teachers to the owners’ disposals, without any protection, as has been the case for many years. The private teacher can now be fired whenever the owner wants, even in the school year, thereby causing, among other things, a strong break-up in the connections of a child - instructor, which are necessary for the student’s cognitive development. And why would she want, did the Minister wonder a moment ago, that the schoolmaster should fire a teacher who is doing his job well? Is that naive? No, he's just computing his interest. So, why would he do it? To hire a more economic worker, more vulnerable and more discreet, with fewer demands, to keep working hours and wage commitments. It will do so in order to recruit someone who will be willing to work in the morning and afternoon on the extra activities, which the schoolmaster can no longer carry out without approval from the regional training director. He will also, in order to get him to work on weekend activities, in summer camps held in July or August, keep him at all times available to offer his services, without time for his personal or family life. He will also be able to assess him as he wishes, on his own criteria, without taking into account existing legislation. To give him the opportunity to teach in various schools or structures of the owner, according to the opportunity given by today's bill. That's exactly why he's gonna do it. Because he can now. Also problematic points of the bill are: the right of the owner or shareholders, provided they have once studied at a university school, to attend the meetings of the teachers' association. Furniture, freedom, limitation. Also, the right to set up care centres, support structures, language centres, KEKs in private schools, which, among other things, also attacks existing educational structures operating on the market, such as small foreign language schools or the pathways found in each neighborhood. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said before that, and with this bill, education is becoming a supermarket. Interestees can shop whatever they want from the market. This is how the government treats education, fragmentation, attack on rights, market enlargement, neoliberalism. The market will regulate everything. The client's moving the strings. Everyone is there to serve him. No pedagogical targeting, no value. And because for you the client is always right, you will close your ears in complaints of privileged treatment of certain students, the parents of your friends. Your choice to destroy education will bring justified reactions from the educational community and the Greek society. We'll be with them in schools, streets, or whatever it takes. Because we're not all the same in education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Famelos has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes. Here comes Mrs. Skondra.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill is not only revealing about the election agreements of the New Democracy, dear colleague Nikos Friend. It's also revealing about the identity of the New Democracy. Because with a bill of very limited vision, very superficial and vulgar, regulations which only serve some of the owners of private education - and again not all - leads to damage and negative effects on the whole education. Because it is my view that this bill is at the expense of both the workers in education and the pupils and the teachers' owners and education as a whole and affects education as a public good and as a public policy. First of all, you must admit that it was an insult to the House that the committees should be brought to an end yesterday, that it should be brought to an end, and that it should not be possible for the Members of Parliament to contribute to the drafting which requires an important bill, with the limitation of the bodies, with the fall of certain bodies, obviously in exchange for the contract that you already have in advance for the contribution you have to give to some, I repeat, the owners of training, so that we have a bill at the expense of all teachers and workers. But, to tell you my personal experience, the school is chosen by the parent for teacher and teacher. Teacher and teacher, teacher and teacher make the school and the kids and give the owner some value. But if we choose the school only for its profitability, and you assess a school only for its profitability, as a commercial business, you certainly don't talk about education. You are not talking about what the global scientific community knows as education. And this derogating concept of education doesn't limit it to private school alone. It's all about education issues. That's Mrs. Keramea's perception. Why you operate authoritarianly, deviatingly and degrading knowledge, science, progress. Because your opinion is inconsistent with the upgraded quality school. Neither would your policy, because you would not start with flexible working relationships, with authoritarianism, with transfer to the Ministry of Labour, with an equalisation of rights downwards, with disequilibrium and subjectivity to evaluation, with a harmful change of less working hours and less wages, with a firmness of employment and all the rest that you have for teachers, if you wanted to upgrade the private school as well. The regulation of Mrs. Keramos also degrades the private school, because it degrades those who provide the knowledge and enhancement of the personality and skills of our children. So it also reduces serious entrepreneurship and institutions that want to invest in private education. What parents would want to send their children to a flexible work school? Which parents would have chosen to send the children to a school working on low-paid orthodox, in the morning - afternoon, summer, as the businessman wants, and not the best teachers? The purpose of the bill would be to pay more for teachers to give better education if you want to upgrade private education. Is it possible for the parent to trust the child with teachers who will declare pressurized? That volunteer, yes, will they work longer hours with less pay or will they work a little in the morning and a little bit in the afternoon, or may they work at the weekend and perhaps do some foreign languages in the excess of ten - twelve hours? There is no quality training with tyre workers, because these workers will be more vulnerable and at other pressures on the extent of the absence, and then you will have to apologise as a whole to youth and you cannot apologize. You don't have the moral and political stature to apologize to the youth. I'm going to make it quite clear. This law will fail, because most parents - and I will borrow the opinion of Kostis Papaioannou, the former Secretary-General, who I saw ten days ago - will promote the status of a parent and not the status of a client, because this is how our society moves on in life. Something that the Right has never had. And, of course, I can't imagine that you may have reached the limit of political vulnerability to believe in a society that the parent will propose that he can buy private excellence and have no values, not to have principles for his child and not to lay conditions in how his child moves forward. However, apart from teachers in private education and training itself, this bill is at the expense of small and medium-sized enterprises. We have received letters from the whole network of owners of foreign language centres, in law, because you have also put fakes, if you like, which all the scientists of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship who have foreign language schools disagree with these regulations. The entrepreneurship of private schools is being affected and small and medium-sized businesses are being affected and our children are being affected. And all this, you know, is being done at the expense of excellence, at the expense of worthiness. Because you come with an amendment to confirm that there is no sovereignty in the selection of training directors. So to the detriment of excellence, Mrs. Kerameo's bill? How did you manage to be against workers, pupils, parents, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and the education itself, but also deserve and excellence? So you choose to put school managers only on party criteria? How far can this vulnerability of the New Democracy and the insult of the municipal authorities reach? Of course, it's not weird. Indulgence towards the knowledge of the New Democracy has proved since the first week, when you have put the NDP commander, I think, a gentleman who has no degree and then came here and dared to vote - you voted - to have a commander in the National Information Service without a degree. And then we'll tell our children, did he vindicate knowledge? Are we going to tell the teachers, give them better knowledge? Are we going to tell school owners are you claiming quality and merit, when you appoint training managers, without criteria and without evaluation? Those temporarys you're going to put on now. So to the burden of education and knowledge! Not to mention the Secretary-General of Tourism, for all the 'blue children' that have filled the public in the New Democracy. And as if not all of this were enough, the "green" Prime Minister chose Article 15 not to go ahead with the upgrading of environmental education, and there was a law to extend environmental education. And here you, too, Madam Secretary, have a personal involvement. In order to upgrade environmental education, it may be that environmental education centres are linked to the principles of sustainable development that the UN has as a key tool to become linked to health and culture. To contribute to sustainable solutions for local issues to become sustainability centres. This political intervention comes in a very conservative way, unscientific and backward, while the global community goes ahead towards sustainable development and not take the political initiative to have sustainability centres in our schools. So the children of Greeks and Greeks stay behind. Are the children of our country left behind both in terms of environmental policy and in terms of the holistic approach to the environment and sustainable development? And, indeed, I am telling you this personally, because you have visited the Municipality of Thermi, where you kept, together with six other sustainability centres. Closedly established sustainability centres. This year was the New Democracy Government. This year, six environmental education centres were closed, sustainability training centres, because we did not put teachers on, because, as the debate tells the teachers of a number of New Democracy officials were affected by the placement of teachers in training centres. And why did you keep them closed? You were responsible for this. I know that the founding FEK had come out with the immemorable Giannis Pantiou, who has to mention his memory here today by the former Secretary-General since 27-2-2018. So the New Democracy closes environmental education and comes to confirm with this bill that this is its identity. What for? Why does he want the teacher to be pursued, feared and indulgent? Why does he want our youth scared and subjugated? He wants the new generation feared and subordinated and does not care about the national and patriotic duty to have education that strengthens Greece and makes it competitive in the global community. Neither with employees nor with owners nor with small and medium-sized enterprises nor with the environment nor with students nor with education. But on the contrary, a dark, vicious and unacceptable political leadership, darkening, which goes back to education and contrasts with Greece that we need and this Greece that we all need will soon be in front of you and on the streets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u134	Mrs Skondra has the floor from New Democracy and Mr Papaliou follows from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, it is true that the distortion is lacking. But, Mr Famele, you should not tell us in here and twist the reality that the procedures for the bill were not followed and that they were done in secret. Procedures were followed normally. The consultation has been carried out properly. Parliamentary work was normally done in committees and the debate was exhausted. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the new generation, our children and their future, which are linked to the future of Greece, for the Government and for the New Democracy is by definition sovereign and unnegotiable. And the rights to education first of all have them. Their education is a fundamental area in which they can respond to the highly competitive environment of our time. The Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Niki Kerameos, under the guidance and approval of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, took the initiative and proceeded with reforms that will align education with the demands of times, ensuring the knowledge, social integration and the dynamic integration of our young people into the labour market. Afterwards, then, the bill that we voted on to upgrade all levels of primary school and earlier higher education institutions set up today's private education bill. It corrects the distortions created by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and regulates self-evident and what common sense imposes, because it is reasonable and self-evident that private schools follow the framework to be defined by the state and controlled for it. Equally self-evident, however, there is flexibility, differentiated, developing actions, and there is autonomy that makes it quite different from public. If the state, ladies and gentlemen, regulates private, like public, why should there be private? Our Government fully complies with the constitutional requirement clearly mentioned and protects the public and private good of education, giving freedom of choice to parents and children. This right lies at the core of our ideological identity of social liberalism. Private sector needs to be able to develop with the business freedoms that will, of course, be under state supervision. The private sector should be allowed to create and build so that resources can be released to the public sector and to society. They'll be profitable, they say some people. Of course they will be profitable, otherwise it will not be the business itself, whether it is a school unit or anything else, sustainable. We do not demonize the gain, we welcome it as long as it is produced in legal terms and in fair manner. From a private sector healthy and robust everyone wins, in particular, the job-creating society. Have you ever considered in Opposition private education how many jobs do they create? You look at this and go straight to your rich cliché 'of the working middle age', because we introduce the evaluation. The private sector is feeding the public, gentlemen of the counterpopulation. That's why when you exterminated him by overtaxation, when with your extreme ideology you pushed out businesses and closed factories, and the state paid it, and jobs were lost and whole families stayed on the road. But you're really irreparable and we've lived all the greatness in the committees of this bill, Mr. Famele, which has been done properly. Infinitely infinitely insulting and threatening, and it is particularly important that they have been said by a former Minister of Education, who should have respected the institution he served. You're reviling everything that has to do with freedom, autonomy and creation. You are seeking the tight embrace of everything with the state of Patteroulis, stagnation and regression, and with a guide to this nostalgia in your governance, since you were unable, because of the European Union, to complete your private education, you tried to level it up. Your deep-minded idealism does not let you accept anything independent, free, nothing that is not controlled by the executive. Today, these distortions come to an end with the bill simplifying operation, bringing autonomy and flexibility to the organisation of private schools. It enables the school unit to judge and manage staff according to the needs and philosophy of the school and always for the benefit of pupils and with respect for the rights of teachers. It allows flexible working hours on the teacher's own initiative and gives the right to freedom to operate buildings. In other words, it reduces state intervention by creating a more autonomous, modern and innovative system of primary and secondary education. It is also important to regulate the teaching of the special courses of the pan-Hellenics. The state was inconsistent, on the one hand, and on the other, it put the special courses in the pan-Hellenics and, on the other, did not provide such teaching, forcing children to go to the schools. Ladies and gentlemen, the spirit of the private education bill moves in the sphere of common sense and self-evident. We could reach agreement, gentlemen of counter-population, although you were the ones moving with the same bullet to end up. You could as Opposition put forward proposals and add or improve things. How, though, do we agree when hypocrisy prevails instead of logic? You're calling schoolmasters the owners of private training. Schoollors, not because you get used to saying it in your everyday life, you say it in this particular case to deceive and degrade the private educational system. Isn't that hypocrisy when in these schools, you send many of you to your children starting with your Chief, Mr. Tsipras? Isn't it a terrible hypocrisy when you deprive the country and the citizens of private universities at the same time as your own children are sending them abroad for studies? You are pretending to be interested in the country, but you deprive her of the benefits and shine it would have if it became an international centre of science, letters and arts, as our country is entitled to, because in this place the sciences were born and the great people who gave the lights to the Western world were magnified. So there is no discussion and understanding with hypocrites. I congratulate the Minister of Education's ideological cleanliness - and all the partners and the State Secretarys - on her commitment to the New Democracy programme, her reform initiatives and the way she opens up to education. As for the personal attacks on her face by SYRIZA, I believe she should ignore them, because they stem from the empathy that abolished them. In the New Democracy and the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis we are well aware that the education, a vehicle of which are the educational structures of the country, is the cornerstone of a favoured state, we pursue policies of upgrading and modernising, and we recognise education as the main pillar of development, spiritual cultivation and prosperity of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u136	Mr Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA, followed by Mr Kotsos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, education in our country is constitutionally regulated. Article 16(8) of the Constitution stipulates that a law lays down the conditions and conditions of authorisation for the establishment and operation of non-State education establishments, i.e. non-State, private, as stated by the neoliberal New Democracy, training establishments and the supervision by the State and the service situation of teachers. This special constitutionally regulated status of non-public-private educational establishments, which the Minister referred to, is unblocked by this bill, its regulations and, in particular, the introduction of unjustified dismissal, the arbitrary dismissal of private teachers. In this context, non-public education institutions cannot be private enterprises, like all others. They are supervised and controlled by the Ministry of Education. The fact that state supervision exists in both public and non-State schools is that element guaranteeing the equivalence of the qualifications of public and non-State teachers. This rate is shattered or rather reversed by the current bill, especially when it is foreseen that the teacher in non-public education is not a minister performing a pedagogical mission, such as in the public school, but simply a private employee. No political leadership has so far stemmed from this change. The current New Democracy Government does so, of course, which does not give rise to any impression, since the Prime Minister himself had called the students of the non-state - for the same private schools - at the 1st Conference in New Democracy after his election. Thus, institutions with the current bill the non-State school is becoming a joint private business. The bill reflects the neoliberal policy implemented by the New Democracy and the sensitive area of education. Teachers' industrial relations cease to be regulated by the Ministry of Education, which will not issue appointments, but will be governed and regulated by the ordinary Labour Law. Thus, the two-year contracts of teachers are abolished, redundancies are released and the operator is given the opportunity to make redundancies with absolute freedom, since he can do so without justification. In addition, the two-year private teachers' contract which would apply until 2021 is abolished, so that private school owners, non-State schools, have the possibility of direct redundancies with lower compensation. The union in private education is abolished, schoolchildren solve and tie up. As a result of all this, a centralized and suffocating school structure and organization is being created, a non-democratic and non-democratic school, as it is undermining the role of the school of teachers, whose meetings will be supervised and controlled by the owners of the school concerned, who will be able to attend them, even if they are not the teachers themselves. Thus, the existence of private teachers is underestimated, their role is devaluated and their role is degraded, as well as the quality of their work, since their dignity and safety go for a walk. What training will a teacher who works under the threat of dismissal, as he can be fired even during the school year? The new employment status of teachers is reflected in specific provisions - regulations. For example, teachers in private and equitable schools are recruited and employed under contracts of subordinated private law of indefinite duration and are subject to the question of recruitment, employment and labour relations being resolved under the relevant provisions of the common labour law. With the intended additional educational services, each school owner will be able to convert his school during the afternoon hours into a foreign language course or a performance-enhancing course in the course of the daily course, with teachers being obliged to work in this "voluntary" without overtime pay, obviously under the threat of redundancies. The letter of the bill is clear and leaves no room for misinterpretation. The provision of additional training services is calculated as normal weekly teaching hours. In this context, non-State education establishments compete unequally and therefore unfairly with foreign language schools and other schools. This, of course, responds to the general policy pursued by the New Democracy Government to concentrate all economic activities on the few, the great and the strong. In addition, the bill stipulates that private teachers, if they wish to work less hours than those of their appointment, shall submit a request to the owner of the school unit. Indeed, what teacher will want to be paid less wages if and if he asks to be employed less hours? And all this, without the pursuit of a consensus, but by a decision of the owner, who distributes the time of the programme at will, which will surely lead to a reduction in remuneration. At the same time, schools will be able to have private teachers, as appropriate, in hosting or adjacent school units of the same grade, own-ownership, to cover operational and service needs. In this respect, this is a unilateral change in the terms of work of teachers by abolishing the appointment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In all this, account should also be taken of the possibility of arbitrary evaluation of the work of teachers on the basis of criteria to be defined by the owners themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, the flexibility of the New Democracy Government's draft law is flexible for redundancies. The flexibility to serve the educational role of non-governmental education has always existed. But for her, you're not interested. What was not and changes with this bill is the full sovereignty of schoolchildren and the absolute subjection of private teachers to them, since redundancies will be done without justification. I conclude by saying this: The content of this bill with the creation of'schools - mall' and'schools all - inclusive', schools which include centres of foreign studies and tutors together, is linked, I appreciate, to the revelations of funding the ruling party by strong schools. The New Democracy had signed pre-election notes and paid them back, as is the case with almost all bills and amendments introduced to the vote by the Government of New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the law of the owners of educational establishments, which the previous government, the SYRIZA government, had succeeded in overthrowing, was imposed at the time of the memorandum. In this case, the Memorandum of Understanding is reintroduced by attempting to ensure full commercialisation of education at the expense of students.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Papaliou, you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u139	I shall conclude, Mr President. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are doing great damage to education, since you are showing - and this is very important - the heteromous, frightened, subordinate to the wishes of the school teacher. Unfortunately, this is the model you are promoting for students, for young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u140	Mr Kotsos from New Democracy has the floor, followed by Mr SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u141	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that today's draft law is being offered for ideological confrontation. The concepts of "privateity", "private education", "profit" are "red lines" for the Left, for those who defend strong stateism, for intense publicism. Of course, I would expect you to be more powerful, more firm arguments in your wording and in your support for your positions, because it is true that the arguments of the level on the one hand should be chosen from the good teacher, the good teacher and, on the other hand, the private school that wants to have many students to choose the worst teachers so as not to pay them well, it is not working. It's acidic, and it can't have a strong impact. Even the late Chaganas was recruited to support the idea that teachers or teachers would be unjustified. Only you forget it was about a comedy at the time. A pragmatism is also the arguments you are using to support your ignorant political and ideological views. Furthermore, the fact that the rapporteur was forced to use extremely acidic expressions, such as 'brokery interests' or 'delivery boy', is a point of view and, if anything, they do not contribute to the public debate that we would all expect through the conflict of ideas, through the confrontation of ideas, to promote political speech. If anything, from the Left who wanted to have the political and ideological advantage beforehand, one would expect a more wise, more prosperous and more friendly approach to this whole matter, if you like. It is true that for many years the left-wing ideological perception was dominated by political dialogue, but, you see, after the opportunity of the Left to rule the place and in practice to prove how close its ideological views to the policy of the field, it collapsed both the advantage and the whole process. It is at a disadvantage, and that is why it is trying to raise political grounds of this kind, which, as far as it is perceived, does not find suitable ground in society. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] This has also been demonstrated in the recent elections, because, if anything, for the only reason that you cannot blame the government and the Minister is that it is sudden and abstaining from our election commitments and election reasons. We are in full straight line, in full harmonisation. All that we are voting today, all that we have been voting on over one year of the country's governance from the New Democracy, is issues that had been sufficiently analysed in the election and gained the confidence and the vote of the citizens, giving a great victory to the New Democracy. So the argument that the bill comes down here to be voted on, when until first I remember that you blamed the Minister for not legislating and that it comes with amendments to go through education issues, falls apart. It breaks down the argument you are saying today that the private education bill after a year brings about the modernisation and upgrading of private education, because private education has been a constitutional one since 1975. It is a constitutionally regulated process in our country, a constitutionally regulated educational process for our teachers and students. Of course, you are trying to create a conflict between public education and private education, as we are enemies of public education. I would like to assure you that our main objective is strong, adequate, full public education, because public education works in favour of the citizens, in favour of the pupils, and it is also in addition as the right of the citizen to choose whether he wants private education. There is, as an inalienable right, which cannot be deprived of. I'm sure a good public school works for the benefit of the good private school. And don't tell me that the schoolmaster, as you say, disgracefully wishes to have a reduced understanding and performance of educational potential, because in that sense he would run counter to what Mr Famelos said, that is, that the parent chooses school on the basis of the teacher. So the schoolteacher that you call him wants a good teacher, a good teacher, an adequate teacher. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, neither of us would want to be afraid, chained, and a censored teacher. We want a strong, adequate, serious teacher who will give it all within the classroom, so that we do not have the phenomenon of public school, especially at the end of the year for the 3rd grade, to have empty rooms because everything has been invested in the school. I think that none of us want this school, because it does not honor either of us and above all, it does not honor the public educational worker, who often - and it is a common secret between us - holds forces in the morning, so that he can return this afternoon to the special care centre at home. And, of course, it is vital that you make use of your argument about the reduced working time available to teachers, when there are no possibilities to complete full time in their specificity. This is why you see in many public schools, particularly in the region, teachers of other specialties to complete their working hours to teach other courses. Well, at least in private education that has a greater flexibility, we must avoid that. It certainly does not constitute circumvention of the employment relationship, but at the same time, I would remind you that the question of part-time work - I said it in committee too - welcomed it and promoted it mainly at the level of local government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u142	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u143	To conclude, Mr President, because, you know, we sometimes deviate from the substance, I would point out that the subject of the educational process is neither the Minister nor the Professor nor the Member nor the school principal. He is the learner, who must provide the best possible education, the best knowledge, because he must not miss us that education is a major factor in social mobility. And we want social mobility through education, through the well-informed teacher who can have good students, kind and useful citizens for our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u144	Before we invite Mr SYRIZA to move on to Stepma - I say this in the sense of preparing - and we also see the list of speakers who are missing, we find that they are twenty-eight other speakers to finish the list. There are potentially - I do not know if they will talk, but we must count them - five other parliamentary representatives have not spoken with the Minister and perhaps the Deputys. So the original objective which the President-in-Office said this morning on the tenth night of the end of the bill is therefore an objective which, if we go with these times and with this tolerance of time by the President-in-Office - I am speaking in total about the Bureau - will not apply, because we will reach at least twelve o'clock. I would therefore propose that we put six minutes - I am not speaking of the next speaker, but of the next speaker - with a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u145	Is Mr. Darkness getting away with this?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, show an understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u147	I'm six minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u148	Listen, let me tell you clearly. It's not his personal matter. If you want to continue in this way, I have no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u149	Mr President, it's yours!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u150	No, excuse me! I suggest to the House and this House decide. I'm not making up my mind. If you agree, then, to put the six-minute period with a small tolerance so that we can be closer to the target we set ourselves this morning to close the bill. That's it. Well, we agree. Mr. Darkdog, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech on the bill, I would like to make an appeal to the absent, again, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u152	He's behind you! Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u153	Excuse me, Mrs. Kerameus, but I used to you there.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u154	That is not the level of opposition now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u155	Come on, Mrs. Pipili, with the "faith"! Lots of fat! I would like to make an appeal, Minister, to accept SYRIZA's legislation on the misfortune of some teachers who have been involved in the procedures of the AACC and have not been registered in the EUR 3 paradox of the first time, and after a few minutes, they have been registered and left out of the competition, at risk for this year, but for the next few years they have not been able to claim a seat. Really, don't look at it indifferently. Look at it with the due importance of this story. It concerns people who will go to small islands, to distant destinations in our country, to work there, in the field of education, and we must not leave them with this injustice that is happening right now. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are calling today for the bill on the modernisation of private education, with our attention to the mission of education, and here, in this case, the mission of private education. I cannot imagine education, both public and private, as the training of different speeds. Public and private should gather high-level data on knowledge provided, scientifically, pedagogical knowledge and care. So let us make it clear from the outset - and we say it again - that no SYRIZA is a priori against private education. See you later. No one listens to it, perhaps because the Bullets from the non papers received by the Members of the New Democracy are stronger than dialogue. We believe - and I have told the committee - that there are great private training courses in place, but there are less important and no big ones. The state exercises public supervision in the field of public and private schools and must legislate to ensure that schools - and public and private - are all important. Evidently the Greek parent can choose for his child school either by public or private operation. 6% of students attend private schools. The children and parents who come to these private, obviously, are looking for a school to which the educational dimension is burdened rather than the economic dimension. No one is looking for the education of their children a mall or a supermarket of knowledge. You complained about the designations. But that's the bill. The bill refers to commercial multi-schools. I wish you could bring in another bill, say what visionary it is, what important it is. This bill you bring, that's what we're judging. No parent wants his child to go to a supermarket of knowledge or training or skills. He wants to go to an educational institution with a program, principles and educational morality, because private schools are not any private business. The schoolmaster cannot be uncontrolled, absolute ruler. And because you protested about schoolgirls, this bill makes schoolgirls. When giving them these powers, recruiting, prosecuting without justification, doing the program, then dominating the school, they are schoolgirls. Like the private guy who has a clinic, who does what he wants in his clinic, he's a clinical leader, and we have the addict. This bill makes schoolgirls. Teachers, too, are not just private employees. They are educational officials and, of course, the student is not a client, as the current leader at a conference in New Democracy said. The student is tomorrow's citizen, who should be treated with respect, care and pedagogical competence. And because you heard who the center is, the child, the teacher, the parent, I'll say everyone's together. School is one. It's not just students, it's just teachers. Everyone has their role, and they have to work harmoniously, to have a good school. With this bill, unfortunately, you are safeguarding all the negative points I have described. Unfortunately, with the adoption of this bill, private schools acquire features of large businesses, a kind of large educational supermarket. That's what your bill says, and I wish he could say something else. All types of educational service are traded. The characteristic is that in the same educational area they will be able to house a primary school, kindergarten, high school, foreignlanguage institute, training and training centre, sports children and who else knows what else will be discovered in the course toward the building for commercial use in the name of education. The bill also deals with the evaluation of teachers, which primarily seeks to do so themselves. SYRIZA agrees too, but you don't hear that, because the butlets from the non papers say that SYRIZA doesn't want the evaluation or wants it. Listen, you're participating in the dialogue that's taking place here. The regulation you are bringing, however, Minister, does not mention any criteria or axes that will determine the evaluation. He'll be in the full jurisdiction of the schoolgirl. Everything is in the hands of the almighty businessman. A private enterprise is making use of its staff for the proper operation, as we say, with the attention of the economic parameters. An educational structure, however, even if it is a business, should have a look at the educational parameters. So here - and in order for business schoolmasters to be judged - you are bringing provisions that go worse on the working conditions of private teachers, without even discussing it with one another. As a mere part of the educational process, the private teacher is required to teach in any structure of the multi-educational school you bring, without the right to object, that is, both in the high school and in the institute of foreign languages and in the Supporting Teaching Programmes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The gathering of the teacher on his subject, the preparation, the work that the teacher has to do outside the hall go for a walk. And who's losing? Evidently the disciple, but the teacher, who is forced to perform his duties at hand. Who wins? The entrepreneur shall be paid for all individual training activities. In fact, in the audience we heard the proposal to subsidise the parents of children who are in private in order to meet the additional benefits of school, foreign languages, sports, etc. And the public students?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Darkdog, will you please finish up?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u157	I shall conclude, Mr President. Those who learn foreign languages at the neighborhood institute, those who are at the gym in their area? Madam Minister, the educational community was negatively expressed on the bill you brought. Even the teachers of the New Democracy, the IAEA, stressed that this bill reduces the education provided in private schools, breaks up working relations, raises the question of the legality of the publication of qualifications, and the issue of equality between pupils arises. Finally, it was quite rightly said by the teachers, who are called upon to operate within it, that this law legalises transgression within the official educational system. It's, after all, your secret desire. In the committees we have learned that some of the owners have complimented, they have won 100,000 euros for election in New Democracy. What other thing to think about is that the bills, which do harm in education, are being paid off to students, do harm to parents and harm good private schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u158	Mrs Alexopoulos will be followed by the New Democracy. After Mrs Alexopoulou, Mr. Paschalidis, Mr. Folila, Mrs. Jufi, will be followed by the Minister. Come on, Mrs Alexopoulou, you have the floor. Warm request for the maintenance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I had the wrong impression that the obsessive concepts of private education were only a feature of the JRC. The colleagues of the Communist Party of Greece, however, are at least consistent in their views. They don't want private education. And if even because of circumstances, they are forced to accept it, they want to have it under the suffocating control of the state. By SYRIZA, however, who had theoretically understood and accepted the world reality, and which most of his top executives have studied the same or their children, such as your Chief of Staff Mr. Tsipras, in the best private schools in Greece and abroad, I expected a little more modest, at least in criticism. The draft law presented by the Minister, Mrs Kerameau, is a truly modern European legislative instrument. It actively relaunchs private education, setting out a realistic institutional framework. On the contrary, the arguments of the Officerate against him, instead of the necessary seriousness, range from class separation to political hypocrisy. Why, apart from class segregation, can the argument that private schools only study the offspring of rich families? And yet, as those who listen to us well know, too many middle-income families are consciously choosing to deprive almost everything from their lives to finally send their children to a private school. The influence of left ideology on education in the last forty-six years has managed to prevent public education from always having the place it deserves, making private life look better. Even the standards and experimental schools, the public schools with the high academic profile, tried to bring them to your own low evaluative levels. Fortunately, with the previous law on public education, the public education train began to go back into the right tracks from which you derailed it. Ladies and gentlemen, I studied in public school in Patras, a school which provided academic and social education along with the building of values for all students. When the evaluation of teachers was given, and public education was high in the eyes of the citizens. I want to send my own child to a public school like this. This is our agony, of the young parents we've met a different public education from the one we have today. Our children are serving, that's why we care, that's why we're fighting. However, for families who choose to send their children to a private school, we have an obligation to protect the quality of the educational work produced and that is only done through evaluation. As each company has the right to choose the best for its potential, just in a private school, administration should be able to choose the best teachers. And this renders justice to those teachers who give it to their disciples, unlike the indifferent and the poor. That is what you are against, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. SYRIZA is also opposed to the use of school facilities for activities other than purely academic activities, even when they do not affect even to a minimum the operation of the school. That makes no sense. For example, a conference which could take place at the premises of a private school and which would give money and recognition to the educational institution, why is it bad? And from the point of view of rights, such interference constitutes a violation of the right to the legitimate use of private property. And that is what you are against, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, opposition is contrary to the arrangements for the employment contracts of private teachers. It considers, in other words, the practice of two-year contracts as a success. On the contrary, we want the teacher to be able to increase his income either by overtime at the same school or by other educational work. We want to develop his skills while at the same time increasing his negotiating power towards the employer. Because the good teacher will be able to claim a greater reward when the owner will have fear of leaving for another school. And that is what you are against, ladies and gentlemen. In conclusion, we want to see private education at a high level, which will lead to public and upwards. After all, in the recent public education law we voted on, we stressed that we aim to upgrade it and cooperate it, of course, with the private sector. "The government will serve both constitutional requirements and state supervision and business freedom," said Minister Kerameos. We increase education as a whole, providing independent choice of work environment and safety to the good teachers of private schools. Because when you are talking about redundancies, we are appointed, as we are now doing with teachers 3HEA 2020 and 4HEA 2020, with the two-six professors of LAG members and those who still follow. What the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis achieves with its interventions in national education and that is why you have lost your sleep is that it removes public and private education workers from your party and ideological audience. A student who receives a high level of education, whether in public or private schools, will be critically considering future citizen. The instructor, who will be well paid and can advertise his quality will no longer be your ideological victim. Because that's exactly what you wish for. Disastrous, fierce educators and untrained citizens, the ravines of populism. And that is the real equilibrium invoked by Mrs Ignastopoulou yesterday. The left equilibrium, SYRIZA's only governance tool, but even this, thankfully, was a failure. Ladies and gentlemen, we must look forward. Let us not forget that we are in the 21st century. Not in the 20th, not in the 19th. We must give our children the modern and progressive tools they need to advance in their lives, in an increasingly complex working and social environment. The draft law on private education, which we are debating here, serves precisely that purpose. He looks towards tomorrow, serves our children. So it is also worth our support and our vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u160	Next speaker Ioannis Pascalides from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is another implementation of the commitments of Mr Mitsotakis' programme to enhance education, so as to be the main lever of growth in Greece. In fact, education is seen as one of the main instruments for the acquisition of skills, competences and knowledge necessary to address the new challenges and the uncertainty caused by rapid developments, the globalisation of the economy and the development of new technologies. Thus, following the adoption of the draft law on the modernisation of the educational system of all levels of public education, it is time to modernise the operation and private schools with a legislation that brings a healthy balance, between state supervision and strict compliance with the law and the autonomy that the State owes to private schools. In more detail, this bill upgrades private school by simplifying the framework for the operation of more efficient management of human resources, as well as the use of building facilities on the grounds that the rationalisation of any private unit serves all aspects: students, parents, teachers, owners. The private school is being upgraded, free to act with worthy and competent teachers who fear no evaluation, instead they will be mobilised for the purpose of innovation and the provision of improved educational work. I now come to Article 2 in which the evaluation process of an institution is institutionalised, which has nothing to do with improving the quality of the educational process and, moreover, with the same criteria as for public education teachers. Article 3 regulates the organisation and programme of private schools by providing that they follow the current timeline and detailed programme of the Ministry, but private schools are now allowed to provide additional training services in the context of an extended programme such as: Supporting teaching, additional teaching support, strengthening language learning. These additional teaching services provided in addition to the timeframe will be decided by the school unit owner following a recommendation from its director and subsequently notified in due course to the relevant training department. Paragraph 6 reintroduces the possibility of hovering private schools with foreign language centres and care centres and now allows for other private schools. Innovative is also the arrangements for educational staff in private schools. In particular: Firstly, the possibility that private teachers may also work in additional educational activities after the compulsory or extended hours at an additional fee. Secondly, the possibility of working at the same time in foreign language centres and other educational institutions with an additional fee. Thirdly, the possibility of working with an additional fee in the school unit and during the summer and not only until 30 June. In addition, this bill allows the establishment and operation of municipal schools from foreign schools, thus covering a gap of many years, given that foreign education on a long-term basis in the Greek area lacked the possibility of establishing a elementary education school. It is noteworthy that the provision of Article 14, since for the first time the systematic teaching in the public schools of the special courses examined in the pan-Hellenic examinations is institutionalised, and that a chronic problem of studying courses which are not taught at all in public schools is at last curated. I would also like to refer to Article 20 of the bill, which simplifys the procedure for granting visas and residence permits for foreign students from not only Member States of the European Union but also from third countries. I would like to express my warmest congratulations to Mrs Kerameau and her colleagues for this new bill, which will bring about a new breath in the field of private education, which communicates with the current current current currents for knowledge and skills, which communicates with European and international trends and is open to society by devoting the state's suffocating presence from the functioning of private schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr Pascalides, for keeping time. Mr Iason Fotillas from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, during the meetings of the Committee on Morphic Affairs in the past few days, however, as well as today in plenary, we have the opportunity to develop our ideological differences. And I have said in the past that it is not bad for the parties to have ideological differences. After all, that's what I'd say about the quintousity of democracy. But what is problematic is when a party comes and stands hypocrisy against an issue. Mr. Friend's not here. I'd love to be here, but it's okay, he might hear me out. So, the day before yesterday, Mr. Friend, Mr. Kyriilidis, asked the Committee on Morphic Affairs to tell him how many refugees the private schools have taken. I don't know if Mr. Kyrilidis answered him because I didn't manage to stay at the whole meeting, we had other committees, after all. However, the truth is that they wanted private schools to take refugee cases, but they could not, because existing legislation did not allow it. And I have here a document that is from the end of 2016, that is, Minister of Education was Mr. Friend, where a number of private schools ask and declare ready to establish reception classes for refugees, including the German School, Greek schools and other schools. Indeed, they say that we can not only take on their programs and education, but we can take up their journey with our own buses, and we can also take up their feeding by our own means. However, a legislative initiative had to be taken, an amendment which Mr Philes promised to pass so that they could do so. They are still waiting for Mr. Friends to make this amendment. In contrast, Mr. Friends came to ask Mr. Kyrilidis the day before yesterday: 'How many refugee cases have you taken?' Evaporating all of his populism. So that's hypocrisy. Let's have some shame! In any case, what would be of special interest would be Mr. Friend ask Mr. Kyrilidis not how much refugee they have taken the private schools, but ask him how many children of MPs and ministers of your party are in private schools and then you would see that the number is so great that hypocrisy is going to run out of Mr. Friend's balls! In any case, Mr Kyriilidis deals with schools and education, others buy houses and even incomes from public places to rent them in refugees and get rich, and that was not Mr Kyrialidis, if I may say so. Now, whether Mr Friends said or did not say that since we cannot close private schools, we will do so through our laws, I would like to say that I do not care if he said so and it doesn't matter, because it doesn't matter if he said so. It's important that he tried to do it. Mr. Philis proposed in 2015 that 24% VAT should be paid to private schools, which we all understand would close most of the private schools without having asked for a troika and the provision was lifted last minute. Because if the troika were to demand it, you realise that you could not even withdraw the order. Unless you tell me that you'd negotiate very strongly and withdraw the order as you withdrew a bunch of what the troika wanted and brought. You were fighting and struggling for private teachers not to pass on to the Ministry of Labour, but to remain at the Ministry of Education. Why all this reaction? Because some want private school to work just like the public. I'm sorry, but in a free economy, that's not possible. Parents who choose the private school for their children do it because they want something more, whether this is a foreign language above, or this is a cognitive object that will go hand in hand with the new era and want teachers who want to be evaluated, because they want to improve. And evidence is the best proof of the quality of the education provided by private schools. The figures show that many - not all, but many of the private schools - have indicators of the success of introducing pupils into our universities more than 90%. It can't be random. They're doing something well or more organized. Clearly, then, public schools must also move in this direction, and that is what we are doing as a government. But here, I will close with that, a question arises, which is indeed a class question at the end of the day. What are the only public schools that have similar success indicators of over 90%, such as good private schools? Standards and experimentals. That's evidence. They are the only public schools with such indicators. And what does Mr. Friend say? That we need to close them, because they are a cancer in public education. So what's he saying? No, all the little, the fewer or the poorer not being able to take their children to an excellent school, according to the information, but only the wealthy families can take their children to the good and excellent schools, to the private schools. The rest of them can't. Here, of course, someone will say that there is a paradox. That's a good thing, so he's an ally of Mr. Kyrilidis. In fact, during the time he tried and fought and closed public standards and experimentally, most families turned to the private, but it did not because he loved private or Mr. Kyrilidis. He did it because at the end of his mind he had that he would shut it all down in private and standards and experimentally, and we have all the good things we have in this country, because he wants children and young people who will be semi-skilled and suited to Mr. Tsipras's allowance. So we don't want that. We want young people who will receive the best education possible to open their wings and create economic and professional opportunities. That's what we promised, that's what we do and we don't put it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u164	We will now give the floor to Mrs Merope Jufi, and then there will be a short break in the procedure, to make the necessary decontamination of the House on the basis of the health protocol and the health services guidelines. Then we will come back with the speech of the Minister and, as the order goes, parliamentary representatives, as has been said. Here, Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not follow the crescendo of the previous colleague, only answer his last question. Many public schools in the Law of Ioannina take the lead over time in the introductory pan-Hellenic exams. This is the reality and many of us have passed through many public schools in the country and have managed to move on to the difficult path of life. My second comment is remarks that have been heard about excellence hated by SYRIZA. Indeed, there was a colleague who said: 'The excellence you hate.' I will say that today is completely ironic. I will not go into the changes in the qualifications of the retired people who have been reduced to match their qualifications. I will not refer to the heads of critical state bodies who take up positions without the legal qualifications required and retrospectively make provision for settlement. I shall refer to the amendment tabled today concerning the choice of placement of training directors. How will it be done without molecules or specific qualifications references? The selection committee can take into account, we are talking about seven hundred fifty files, so in a way of total opacity and anxiety. That's for the truth. And I'm going to the same part of my speech. Indeed, for a year now, I would say that the neoliberal virus of government policy has been spreading and threatening public education, and today it seems that pollution is also spreading to private education. It is a legislative initiative of the Ministry that has caused very great reactions and does not succeed, but, unfortunately, I would say that it does not seek consent, because it chooses to tackle the social good of education as another commercial product, which is produced and consumed in accordance with the rules of freedom, but, in fact, free, market. Other colleagues have mentioned in the draft regulation that: Private schools acquire features of large businesses that will start from preschool to lifelong learning and training, offering education packages. There is no doubt that redundancies and teachers can also lose their jobs in school year. The supervision of private teachers is transferred to the Ministry of Labour. Unprecedented! Indeed, the example of doctors was used. Here I would remind you that doctors with such jobs are mostly qualified, are rare and, in any case, they do not have the responsibility to grant equal qualifications. It is not the case that private therapies have such capabilities and abilities. This is the warning difference, and the Minister knows it because he is legal with very high capabilities and abilities. We see why they also spoke about the evaluation, that we do not want it. We say that this is where worse ex-institutional evaluation procedures come through, cut and stitched to the wishes of the owners, and, of course, this is how pressure, control and manipulation mechanisms are strengthened, with what this implies in the educational environment. The whole of the provisions, I would remind you, were the consistent demands of the schoolchildren and, of course, the SYRIZA government gave, despite the irony we have heard here, a tough battle so that there can be a return to elementary normality in private education for the benefit of many, the disciples of the families and the workers. Here I will file a complaint from the private schools from the Yannina about illegal and unconventional behaviours by some school heads in our town who, of course, did not find their right because even administratively, the Minister knows it because this complaint has been filed with her, and for many years disciplinary boards have not been brought together. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Merope Jufi, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So there is a point and there is a point here about how much now the frameworks are changing with this legislation brought by the Minister. A lot has been said about who schools are working for. Of course, schools operate for students, other schools without free teachers with fear and manipulative employees means schools of low educational quality. The Minister spoke the last few days about our clawings. I asked her again: is it stressful to maintain working peace and safety for teachers working in private schools? Is operating and constitutionally guaranteed state supervision struggling, granted to private interests and schools? You didn't give me a specific answer. You have tried to convince us that all this is done in the name of reducing state intervention and strengthening private initiative. I'd say that's deeply ideological. You did not pay attention to the very many negative comments that were made in the consultation that you tried to deceive. The committees have seen that we did not have the representation we would like. They were mostly employers at the expense of workers. Even your AACC strongly criticises the lack of dialogue, even telling you that "lawless, iniquity is invading". In the same way, of course, there are private schools workers through OELE, GSE, ADEDY, ILO, OLEME, all of them. Nevertheless, you continue to go ahead and talk about business freedom. The freedom you are describing, however, and Mrs Anagnostopoulou told you, is nothing but the immunity of employers and donors. Because time's running, I'll be done. I could say a lot of things, but I shall end this. Here you presented, in a new way, arrangements that you know had been. You announced that you were making the four thousand five hundred recruits in special treatment. Welcome, just hide that these recruitments have been guaranteed by SYRIZA, and you have been delayed a year to implement the adopted legislation. You talked to us about recruitment of board members and administration at universities. For the managers, I would remind you that Mr Mitsotakis was the one who proceeded with the dismissal and availability of hundreds of administrative staff at the AEI. Mr. Bernardakis has given you the relevant documents. I also told you about the planned six hundred and fifty-five blocking positions and applying rule one to one, which you have frozen. I also referred to the seventy-eight ICP posts given to the medical schools and thus managed to fight hard against the coronary, together with the National Health System. I wanted to finish with a little words - so as not to take more time - both to power and to the Members of the New Democracy. The ghost of the defeated Darius in the Persians of Aischulus - who also went up to Epidaurus - reminds the winners "when the boasts flourish, fruits anger's fruit, calamity is harvesting". Think about it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Jufi. We will be adjourning the meeting for decontamination, as we said before, and we will be back in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Mr Baraliacos has the floor from New Democracy. Then we will continue with the Minister and the other speakers. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u168	Thank you very much, Mr President. During the debate on this bill, not only the political oligopoly of the Left was stripped once again to keep pace with the challenges of modern education, but also its deep ideological hypocrisy. The New Democracy's parade, with a deep social footprint, consistently expresses the struggles and demands of the wide mass of Greek citizens, without a class mark, because for us the national unity and equal opportunities are primarily measured, not the equalisation of all downwards, but the possibility of economic and social rise for all, regardless of the starting point they start. The safest instrument, which also operates as an end in achieving social mobility, ladies and gentlemen, is education. But be careful that there is no misinterpretation. First and foremost for us is public education, public school, public university. That is why it is our party that defends, shields and upgrades public education. We are the ones fighting for open and accessible schools and universities for all. That is why we abolished asylum, which is why we have institutionalised the introduction of new technologies and digital skills already from the first levels of education. That is why we are constantly adding tools and methods that place public education, not at the centre of our policy but at the top of the lead. All this for us, ladies and gentlemen, is unnegotiable. And of those who support the occupations politically and morally, whose youth policy seeks closed schools with padlocks that their trade unions dismantle the educational process every three and a little by strikes, we do not accept to move our fingers. You are not entitled to preach social sensitivity when for four and a half years of governance and forty years of ideological terrorism in the educational areas, you have broken up all concepts of public education, excellence and hardship. With this bill, ladies and gentlemen, we are not making any distinction between private and public education. We also ensure that the Constitution is respected in terms of equality and proportionality. The constitutional guarantee of the proper functioning of private schools along with public education tended to erroneous and quasi-corruption. The SYRIZA government has implemented an ideological policy. It summarized its political doctrine in education, both in public and in private, in the words "excellence is retaliatory". Everyone equals, but everyone equals down, to lower the bar, to impose the logic of the minor effort. So what did the left political government do? Prohibition on evaluation in private schools. Restriction on the ability to draw up additional training activities. Consolidation on the substance of private education teachers. Unsuccessful, fortunately, attempted to increase VAT to 23%. In simple terms, qualitative equilibrium and economic extermination. And here is the deep hypocrisy of the Greek but if you want the Left in the world. You know, ladies and gentlemen, I have personally studied public education at all levels and I feel very proud of it. A significant part of what I've done is due to my teachers at the public school. I also made the same choice for my children, because I am convinced of the high level of knowledge provided, but also of the morality of Greek public education. But how many, ladies and gentlemen, on the left can you say the same? How can you, on the one hand, fight against such hardship and with such an ideological attitude to private education and yet choose these schools themselves - and, of course, do - to form your children? If that is not ideological and political hypocrisy, then what is it? If this is not a lasting and prosperous victory of liberal perception, then what is it? If this is not a deafening assumption of your ideological defeat and your political inconsistency, then I really wonder what else might happen. With the provisions of this bill, ladies and gentlemen, the necessary mix of liberalising private schools is achieved at all levels, with the necessary state supervision. It breaks the abscess of state intervention and strengthens autonomy. They deserve congratulations to the leadership of the Ministry of Education, which continues our bold and visionary policy on education at all levels, in all its aspects. Education is the guardian of raising everyone and the guarantor of achieving our national objectives, and we are here to safeguard it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u169	We will now give the floor to Mr Maraveya Konstantinos from New Democracy. The Minister will be followed by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative and then we will continue with the list of speakers. Here, Mr. Maraveya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u170	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about a bill on all private education, a legislative initiative which facilitates the operation of all private schools and the work of all private education teachers. This is a new regulatory framework that comes to solve problems and malfunctions of decades directly. That is why it is worth commending the Ministry of Education's political leadership, both to the Minister of State Mrs Keramos and to the State Secretary of State Mrs Zacharakis, for their hard efforts to bring together opinions and to work out solutions that help both employers and workers in private schools. At the same time, with provisions such as Article 2 for the evaluation of private education, the state also comes to ensure that pupils receive appropriate training, in line with the evaluation criteria of public schools. Obviously, the application of additional evaluation criteria by private schools themselves will be possible. An important innovation in the organisation and educational programme of private schools is introduced under Article 3. In particular, in addition to the mandatory teaching time, private schools are allowed to provide additional educational services within an extended programme. Such services may be aiding teaching, additional teaching support, strengthening language learning or teaching of additional cognitive objects. During this extended programme the hours worked by teachers in additional educational services are calculated as hours of regular teaching and therefore teachers and teachers will not be charged with any work. Another very practical way in which this bill enlarges the schedule of private schools is to enable them to teach at the same time more foreign languages and to choose which and how many foreign languages will be taught beyond those defined by the Ministry of Education. It is very important that private schools should be able to organise other complementary activities, using their premises outside teaching hours and teaching days. It is noteworthy that this use can relate to the accommodation and hospitality of young people for the purpose of organising educational, entertainment and sports activities. These events will be supported by teachers, who will obviously receive additional pay for their extra work. This is purely voluntary participation, which, of course, can only concern those of such interest. Conversely, private teachers may, if they wish to work less hours than those of their appointment, apply to the owner of the school unit. It is therefore possible for private teachers and teachers to form themselves, in cooperation with the school, an employment programme suited to their individual needs. At the same time, it becomes possible to parallel private education at school, instruction, in foreign languages or in other educational institutions, since it is no longer a loss of appointment. Perhaps the most important regulation of the bill is Article 10, with which all teachers in private and in the equal schools of teachers will be recruited and employed under contracts of private law of indefinite duration. This is a crucial intervention in favour of the labour rights of private teachers, which shows the social sensitivity of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Minister, in relation to your amendment on the settlement of outstanding transfers and placements of educational public schools, we must recognise that it solves an existing issue. Also a big issue, however, is the permanent resolution of the problem of transfers and placements of educational public schools that are parents of AMEO. I know your sensitivity and your attention with which you look at the relevant memos. That is why I am sure that soon the Ministry will provide a solution to this absolutely fair request from the LEADER educational parents. Another legal request you have been notified relates to the granting of free schoolbooks and a school pass for the movement of students in private education. I know that you have been notified of the letters from the parents and guardians of the eighty-five thousand pupils and pupils in private education throughout the country. I personally agree that the state should offer the same benefits to all students either public or private schools, as part of the equal treatment of their children and families. It is therefore perfectly reasonable for the State to give schoolbooks to public and private schools, without even making any distinctions in the possibility of moving children through public transport. I would like to conclude with a just request which will require cooperation with the Ministry of Finance to be satisfied. It concerns the integration into the low VAT rate of all supervisory instruments of compulsory education, such as maps, groundwater bullets, etc. Here I would like to highlight the unfair burden on parents and school committees from the sharp increase in the VAT rate imposed by the SYRIZA Government on school supervisory instruments, bringing it up to 24%. This caused unnecessarily financial burdens both on families and on schools supplied by these educational aids, making these supervisory instruments necessary for students effectively unaccountable. Since the cost of the public revenue measure is negligible, I hope that the forthcoming cooperation with the Ministry of Finance will be positively faced with the above request for thousands of families. I am sure that your direct personal intervention will only have benefits, benefits for parents and students who do not have the financial comfort to obtain all these necessary resources today because of their over-taxation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr. Maraveya. We will now give the floor to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Kerameos. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u172	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, last month we passed a bill on the upgrading of the public school from the pyramid base to the high school. This Private Education Act comes to supplement this important intervention in primary and secondary education. It comes to conclude this first cycle of interventions on the upgrading, modernization of the school, a first cycle of interventions for which both the Deputy Minister, Sophia Zacharaki and the Secretary-General, Sissy Gikas have worked very hard all this time. Today, let me speak to you about the ten truths of the bill. Really first. The Constitution protects education in all its appearances, whether it is public or private. It ensures and guarantees education as the state's main mission, with free access to all its levels and guarantees the operation of private training centres, as well as protects business freedom. Really second. Private education is currently operating in a suffocating and centralised operating framework, largely resulting from the previous government's interventions. It is characterised by a lack of flexibility in weekly timetables, a lack of flexibility in additional educational activities, a lack of effective human resources management, limitations on the employment opportunities of private teachers, limitations on even the use of facilities. In short, the current regime is characterized by excessive state intervention at the expense of freedom, to the detriment of the autonomy that private education must have. Really third. The time has come for a brave incision in the field of private education. Consequent to our election commitments, and here, we are introducing a bill that ensures, on the one hand, state supervision over private education, but at the same time gives them freedom, gives them the autonomy to develop their action, offer their educational work, meet the demands and expectations of parents and students. I'm really fourth. What exactly do we pursue with this bill? We seek to reduce state intervention and strengthen private initiative, strengthen the essential autonomy of the school unit, strengthen flexibility in the organisation and operation of the school unit. We seek to manage human resources more effectively. We seek to improve the overall level of private schooling and education provided in general. With the bill, therefore, we are modernising the functioning of private schools, we are going through excessive state intervention in fertile supervision, obviously with strict compliance with the legislation. We go through the rigidity of flexibility, from focusing on decentralisation, from questioning to trust, and give meaning, we give substance to the right of parental choice provided by the Constitution, to the right that every parent has to choose whether to send his child to public or private school. Why, ladies and gentlemen, if all schools, public and private, are the same, if the legislator, the state, then what is the point of the choice? Really Thursday. This bill benefits students. How? It upgrades the training provided by introducing a system of evaluation of educational work, a school unit and teachers. Here too, we have heard criticism of the additional evaluation criteria and it has already become a legislative improvement so that these additional criteria are already laid down in the rules of each school. Secondly, with the possibility of an extended compulsory timetable established by the school with flexibility, with the possibility of school managing with greater freedom and autonomy its human resources for the benefit of the education provided. For example, it may provide for the teaching of lessons from specific disciplines. And yes, although the vast majority are obviously exquisite teachers, it is inappropriate to remove a teacher who is inadequate. With the ability to appoint the school itself its directors and sub-directors, to draw up its own rules of procedure, without State control of feasibility. The bill offers more options for afternoon activities thanks to the flexibility in formulating the relevant programme and the recruitment of teachers and other teachers according to needs and extends the possibility of pupils participating in activities and in summer, if they so wish. I stress these benefits for students, because, ladies and gentlemen, it is the student who is at the heart of our educational policy, who is more interested in us than anyone else. Why? Because he is the recipient, he is the one receiving the educational services and why we must not all forget about who we are working for. First of all, all of us, all the training staff, all the educational community, are working to improve the level of education provided, to the benefit of the student. I've heard here the non papers you call SYRIZA, constantly reproduce that only the owners support this bill. What do the families who are receiving the educational services say? Because that's why I haven't heard from the Civic Opposition. What does the Parents' Association of Private Schools say? I read: "The parents and guardians of the eighty-five thousand students and students who have trusted their children in a thousand private schools throughout the territory welcome the possibility for private schools to have the freedom to form the training course provided in response to the needs of the pupils, without being hampered by bureaucratic processes, the main reason for which they have chosen private education". I present in Minutes the relevant press release of the Parents' Associations Committee of Private Schools. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This same club submitted to Parliament's Committee on Educational Affairs that it 'is thus a flexible and dynamic curriculum, adapted to the demands of the times, without, of course, removing the supervisory role of the state, where and where necessary'. And the parents' association continues - parents, parents, students, recipients - saying that "it gives a reply to the bill in years of requests from parents of private schools, such as the evaluation of educational staff, the existence of compulsory rules of operation, based on the needs of each school and, above all, after a check of legality and not of feasibility, and the facilitation of records and transfers between schools during the school year". I'm presenting the relevant quote to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Really sixth. This bill benefits teachers, gives them opportunities for additional employment with the possibility of increasing their income. How? With the possibility of also working in additional training activities after the end of the hour with an additional fee, with the possibility of working unrestrictedly on the basis of current labour legislation, along with centres of foreign languages and other educational institutions, again with an additional fee. It is also possible for everyone to work without restrictions on the basis of the existing legislation, with an additional fee for the school unit and during the summer, and not only until 30 June, and then again on 1 September, if and if they so wish. It is planned to convert private teachers' contracts into an indefinite period of time. The two-year contracts adopted by SYRIZA are abolished and led to an adverse position. But let us say things, ladies and gentlemen, as they are. Many of you are sending your children to private schools - let us not hide - and of course you are pleased with the excellent teachers of your children but also displeased when, for example, a teacher or teacher is inadequate. Does this teacher - I ask - have to stay in school forever? Who do we ultimately favour with such a regulation? The student who becomes the receiver of bad education? The teacher to whom we don't give an incentive to improve? Consider it to be the same in private hospitals where there is no restriction on the management of human resources, a bad doctor could not be removed from a hospital. So what do we say? We are talking about increased protection in the private education system. Elevated how? With strict observance of the legislation under the control of our court and with additional safeguards in Article 10(2) relating specifically to the protection of educational practices against unfair practices on the part of the employer, such as cases of vengeance, empathy and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, the good teacher does not need a permanent clause. It's the very best commercial for school. From the country's leading professionals, Professor Lexiouriotis writes in his article 'Kathemerini': 'Can it be considered unacceptable to overturn the Government's intention to apply the constitutional principle of equality between private teachers and other private sector employees? 'Why' does the professor ask, 'Is it unacceptable that the bill that private teachers should be recruited and employed under contracts of independent private law for an indefinite period, and that they should fall under the relevant provisions of the common labour law?' 'Why is it not enough' asks the professor, 'for private teachers, the extensive safeguards contained in general labour law by applying, for example, the principles of non-use of the managerial right, equal treatment and non-discrimination, gender equality, the prohibition of unilateral change in the terms of the contract of employment and other protective clauses'? 'Why is it better' is asked by the professor, 'the current system which distorts the status of employment contracts and makes primary and secondary schoolmasters effective? I am presenting the relevant article by Mr Lexouriotis in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In this context, I can only point out that in the committee of Special Representatives, you said the anti-constitutional bill, that it raises serious issues of constitutionality. You systematically do this. But then when you have the ability to object to unconstitutionality, you do not. You did the same in the previous bill of the Ministry of Education last month. I therefore conclude that in the end you have no concerns about constitutionality, as was the case with Parliament's Scientific Service. During the hearing of the bodies from the Committee on Morphic Affairs, the President of the OELE Federation, Mr Kurutos, said: 'But the owners want to be absolutely certain that they will be able to fire everyone'. That is what the President of OELE said. I'm presenting the relevant quote to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I ask, ladies and gentlemen, why would the owners want to fire everyone? Don't teachers want the owners in their schools and especially the good teachers, who are the best advertising ever? Ladies and gentlemen, this bill supports anonymous teachers, those who see evaluation as an incentive to improve, those who want further job opportunities, those who want a school free, a school pioneer, a school with government supervision but also with flexibility and freedom to take further action. In the first basic statute of Article 2, the OEL, in paragraph 7 of Article 2, stated explicitly: 'The main objective of OELEC', notable in the federation of private teachers! 'is the abolition of private education'. That is what the OEL's first basic statute said! The truth is that we did not expect OELE to agree on the basis of these basic principles alone. I'm presenting the relevant quote to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u173	When's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u174	But more recently, Mr. Phile, because I understand that you have a concern about the times - on August 2, 2016 here in the Greek Parliament, an important member of OELE and an MEP of SYRIZA, Mr.Mitafidis, said: "When at the OELE conferences we wrote the decisions on the socialization of private education by making teachers public", that is to say, "with the nationalisation of schools without compensation, all this complex shape and we all agreed that we had no idealism." I submit to the Minutes the relevant quote, August 2016! [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Really seventh. This bill benefits schools and private education as a whole. How? Giving greater freedom, greater choices in the organization of the school unit, the functioning of the school unit, the management of the human resources, the use of the building facilities, simplifies the operating framework, makes it simpler, more flexible, less limited and so allows the school to respond to its multifaceted role, a role that can play as an innovative private school. Really eighth. The State maintains its supervision of private education in full. The law in force defines, among other things, the private schools, the supervision of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, their organisation and programme - all these are defined by the law, sets out a specific framework - the holidays, the composition of teaching staff, the qualifications of private teachers, the qualifications, the duties and obligations of the managers of private schools and teaching staff, the ceiling for weekly working hours, the annual hours, the recruitment, the depths and promotions, the licences and the replacements, the minimum remuneration limits, the disciplinary control. Who said the surveillance is being eliminated? We have here a framework which is really different from the other private sector. We have a special framework which is precisely established under the Constitution and under the legislative powers. Really ninth. Who's finally fighting this bill? The powers of regression, the powers that want a state of over-concentration, the powers that want to manipulate private education, the powers which either intrinsically or explicitly express themselves, want the abolition of private education, political forces or joint forces, forces that do not want evaluation, do not want progress. The Civic Opposition when it was a government has shown a horrific idealism and obsession with private education. I remember the choice of the previous government first to fight evaluation in private schools. Secondly, to limit the possibility of further training activities, to introduce feasibility testing into additional activities as well. Thirdly, to simulate the substance of private education teachers rather than motivate them to become better. Fourthly, I still remind you of the attempt - fortunately an attempt! - of the previous government to impose VAT on private education 23%. As Minister of Education at the time Mr. Philis had described VAT as "five-eight. " That is what Mr Phillips said, 'the five-tenths'! I submit the relevant articles in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Five-ten-year-olds, Mr. Friend, for the struggling middle-class family who make great sacrifices to send his children to the private school. First of all, we had a levelling-up, abolition of modulation, and then unbearable burdens and clamps, which actually cancel the comparative advantages of private schools, so that no one has any reason to choose private education anymore. At the hearing of bodies, the complaint of the Association of Private Schools was particularly revealing, that Mr. Friends on the basis of the complaint had told the President of the Association that because we cannot close you, we will do you with our laws unnecessarily. I'm presenting the relevant quote to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Despite the fact that Mr Philis has avoided putting himself on the substance of the complaint in the Morphics Committee, the truth is that it does not matter much, because this complaint has been established in practice. The SYRIZA - ANEL government did everything it could to make these schools unnecessarily. He couldn't shut it down. She banned it from the Constitution. It has, however, significantly reduced the possibilities of these schools to diversify themselves. So we were abolished in the matter of the constitutionally established possibility for parents to choose the school they want for their children. This has always been the intention of SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of this debate in this House I have referred to an article by MP SYRIZA and former Deputy Minister of Education, Mr Tassos Kourakis. I will read an article in 2014 in the newspaper “SYGI”. Mr. Kourakis said in 2014 before the 2015 elections: "It should be clear that for as long as there is private education in our country it is the responsibility of the state to guard and implement the legal framework concerning industrial relations, etc. We must not forget that the aim of SYRIZA is universal, free and public education with a high level of education provided." The best thing comes: "The upgrading and strengthening of public free education must be such..." said SYRIZA MP "...that would make an unnecessary choice for everyone and each private education at all levels and at all levels, and that, as they all show, only the Left Government wants and can achieve it." Well, Mr. Philly, there is no need for any confirmation of a complaint. It can be proved in the most practical way. I put the relevant article in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The previous government, ladies and gentlemen, has been ideologically obsessed with private education, as in a wider sphere, it has moved against private initiative in general. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also something worse than this ideological obsession: do not have the courage to defend it. At an event for the sixty years of OELE’s operation in 2018, Mr. Friend said that when he became Minister of Education, he had already decided within him on changes to the labour status of private teachers. But, ladies and gentlemen, this courage did not have to defend them and brought these changes to the labour regime in secret, August without consultation. And that's the worst form of ideology and obsession, the one you don't even dare defend. And it is the abstention of hypocrisy, because you do not dare, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, in practice, apply your ideas, because - I have said - you are attacking private schools and sending children to special schools. You're right. It's your right. In the morning in the House you are defending the removal of all degrees of autonomy and freedom of private schools, and in the afternoon you go to private schools and please ask for greater flexibility in their absence, complain about bad teachers, etc. As also - you do - you fight against non-state universities, and you have built your curriculum, studying or teaching, to non-state universities abroad. Two yards and two weights. So here's where SYRIZA belongs. But we were surprised to see that the Change Movement is also getting closer to SYRIZA's ideas. So what does the Change Movement say? He doesn't want the evaluation? I guess not. Because in the previous bill, in the evaluation of public school, in the evaluation of educational work, in the evaluation of a school unit voted not on the Change Movement. Does the Movement not want the greater flexibility and autonomy of private schools? Does the Movement not want additional job opportunities for teachers? Do you want this, like SYRIZA, the big stirring state? Does he want a state that governs and does not just supervise the private sector? With his attitude, then, the Change Movement - and I am sorry about that - says yes to the Gabroglou laws and Friends for the levelling-up of private education. It says yes to the backwards. It's finally sad, because micropolitics and syndicate interests do not allow you, ladies and gentlemen of the Change Movement, to take the brave step forward. Really tenth. It is clear that the bill we are debating today concerns a limited proportion of the population. However, it involves a profound symbolism, ladies and gentlemen. It's a deep ideological. I think we all agree on that. Two worlds conflict. On the one hand, the world of progression conflicts, the world that wants schools under the supervision of the state but more free and more autonomous, schools pioneers, schools dynamically. On the other hand, it is the world of regression, of minor effort, of war against any concept of evaluation, the world that wants the state to spread its tentacles everywhere. At the end of the day, two worldviews about the role of the State in private education and private initiative in general. Do we want, in the end, ladies and gentlemen, the state to supervise private schools, or do we want and run them the same? The draft law we are discussing today comes to bring about a healthier balance between state supervision and strict compliance with the law and the degree of freedom and autonomy that the state owes to private schools. These arrangements also release the private school from past strangles and ideologies. They also give private education the characteristics that make it together with the public school a lever for development for the country. I shall close, Mr President, with only one mention due to a lack of time in one of the other provisions of the bill, in Article 14. For the first time in public schools in the country, the systematic teaching of special courses is being considered in the pan-Hellenic exams. We had recently announced this in the House and laid the paradox to study courses in the pan-Hellenic exams that are not taught at all in public schools. And that's true. It recommends a chronic pathogen in our country. Special courses, control of music, audio skills, musical perception and knowledge, music performance and interpretation, harmony, Italian, Spanish, French, German, design, whether they were not taught at all in the 3rd class of general and professional high school, or were taught fragmentary and not targeted in preparation for the pan-Hellenic. In practice, therefore, the students who wished to be examined in these special courses had to resort to schools for their preparation. Now, by legislation introduced by the Government of New Democracy, a programme of support for the specific universal education courses in the public school is first established in the Greek educational system. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This new programme will be able to participate students in the 3rd general and vocational classes who wish to study in these special courses in order to study at the respective higher education schools and departments. This is an initiative that creates new opportunities and strengthens equal opportunities in public education. I shall refer, ladies and gentlemen, to the amendments and the legislative improvements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Minister. It will be followed by Ms Xinoyannakopoulou, Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA. Mr Lebanese, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, will then be followed. Then we'll continue with the list. Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, of the ten 'truths' mentioned by the Minister, I would agree with the tenth truth that two different ideological and political approaches exist here. It is clear that there are the new dividing lines, which we now see at this juncture all day long, glazing and glazing. A year has now passed for the New Democracy. Three are the features that characterize this governance and we see them reflected in every draft law coming from the Ministry of Education. The first feature - the Minister herself said so - is the purely neoliberal orientation. This is clear, that is, the logic of the market, the logic that we see in times of crisis, as in the rest of Europe, not to do, the necessary forward policies to support the real economy, but to the contrary, we see the dismantling of labour relations everywhere, which is now being attempted by this bill. The second feature is the famous state of perfection, excellence, which we have seen in all these 12 months since last year's elections being reflected as a state that we want party control, the 'logues' regardless of qualifications and where they do not suit qualifications, the legislation changes, and we certainly see this bill being reflected as well. The third feature is this specific Balkan neoliberalism that we live in our country, which at the same time goes hand in hand with customer relations and selective relationships with economic interests. How, then, are all these three features reflected in the draft private education law that we are debating today? The first one is proud. Here we see that the Minister is recommending today - and he defends it as essential for the country - a logic of marketing education, where education is no longer an individual right and a social asset - which our 1975 Constitution itself has guaranteed after struggles and with the democratic and social demand of the era of post-multipleism - but here clearly we see a logic of entrepreneurs in the sense of the free private initiative on education, a reasonable customer for parents and children and education as a consumer asset. The second feature we mentioned before is the ultimate state, excellence. With Mrs Keramou' s amendment today, we see that training directors are now being abolished and appointed by a ministerial decision, but we know that until such time as this change takes place, it is clear that this will be in the sense of permanentization, because all the measures that we see as transitional at the present time are of permanent characteristics and, of course, also the parallel diversification and reconstructuring of the service councils. The third feature is customer relations. That's where we don't have to go. The representative of private education in the Committee on Educational Affairs himself said and confessed that private training courses - not all but a large number - were among the sponsors in the election campaign in New Democracy. There is also a fourth feature, which is in line with the tenth truth that Mrs Keramea said. What did he say? That this draft law is coming to draw up a way for the future. This may be the most provocative and dangerous of this legislative initiative. Because, as was seen at the four meetings of the Committee on Morphic Affairs, the logic behind this - we also see the abbreviation - is that this generic choice between public and private in essence is also several colleagues who have supported this concept, making public as private. Of course, this conceals the logic that has been said, such as in other countries with a neoliberal system, to have the logic of the vouchers in terms of education, to extend this further and to talk about student loans. You are accusing us of obsessed, above all, with the Civic Opposition, even though in this bill you have the most opposition parties to you. But you also have your own party of teachers, the IAEA, which I imagine you will not blame them for ideology and all that you have accused us of. In addition, the negative approach was overwhelming in the consultation that preceded it. So because you are accusing us of obsessed, Minister, I have to tell you here that obsessions are to you, because you are out of the climate of time, because at the moment after the financial crisis and much more since the crisis of the coronary and pandemic, what we see internationally even in international organisations that have a neoliberal direction is that they are now suddenly talking about the need for the social state, they are talking about public intervention in the economy. We see even hard nuclear positions in Europe changing, and countries where these scenarios have been applied for which you say that it is the prospect of the future, that is, the vouchers or student loans, coming now and being reviewed on the basis of the results. So it's not enough that you come here as a government to bring all these neoliberal recipes are both failed and out-of-season. We should therefore take things more specifically. As far as the Constitution is concerned, our rapporteur, Mr Phillips, made a very good point in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media that the 1975 Constitution, and in particular Article 16(8) thereof, reflects the democratic and social contract of postmulsion, a contract which all governments and the New Democracy at the time and PASOK and SYRIZA have subsequently honoured. Indeed, the SYRIZA government - our rapporteur referred to this - restored all this damage, not only to education but also to the economy and social rights in the period of memoranda and the imposition of these policies. So the Constitution to which you refer and say that there is no question is a single system that provides for education and that is why strong supervision is also provided for. It expressly refers to the service situation of teachers in the private education system and which the Constitution itself speaks of non-State education. It does not even say the words 'private training'. Of course, this is precisely about the logic that education is a social asset, that it is a single system, and that is why you protested strongly that the President of OEL has said so in the consultation that took place with the institutions, it is of course an integral part of the equivalence of qualifications, because we are talking about a single system that has supervision, has a specific programme, a specific function and, of course, a corresponding provision regarding the service situation of teachers. You mentioned - and I think, Minister, that only as a hindrance can this be understood - that in this bill you come to satisfy the teachers themselves, and indeed you made a reference to the worker, Mr Lexouriotis, who wonders, according to what you said - because I have not read his own opinion - why the teachers are complaining about this excellent system of work relations that we have. First of all, they are protesting - and they are rightly complaining - because teachers are teachers and cannot come under the Ministry of Labour and the common labour legislation. Also in which country does Mr Lixouriotis live? Does it not live in the country where, with the first bill that came after the elections, redundancies have been released, collective negotiations have been dismantled, and at the time of the crisis, we have seen all these measures which were the final hit on industrial relations? And these measures are now coming you to apply them to teachers. So, what are you telling them? It is not enough that you are destroying the employment relationships, which are now available for free dismissal without any grounds at all, without the insurance margins that existed for the judiciary before and you say they should go to justice. And at the same time in this particular period of unemployment, insecurity, you make them insecure and tell them voluntarily, if they want, to reduce their hours and hence their earnings and, of course, to participate in the additional training activities. But, of course, with the gun on the head, because whoever doesn't agree will just get fired. That's the reality. Finally, because you said in your truths, your own, that this is in favour of students, that it is in favour of parents and families, will it really provide quality in education for private workers to be insecure, not to have the logic of workers who have prospects or teachers with experience? I also think the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative asked why to fire them? There'll be a good reason. Let's just say a few reasons, why can you, based on your bill, fire an employer in private training? Because the teacher can trade. Because he may not voluntarily want to go to the extra activities or not consent to the reduction of his own hours of teaching and therefore his income or very simply, since now that the shareholders and the partners, according to your rules, are even in the meetings of teachers, he can simply want to maintain - as he must - his autonomy, the manner of conduct of students, possibly in the scores and all these issues. As time is running out, I would like to say that the dilemma, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if SYRIZA or the other opposition parties, and the world that reacts is in favour or against, today, private training courses, is a false dilemma. This has solved the Constitution in a specific way. The dilemma is this: Do we want to respect the Constitution and supervision? Do we want education to be an individual right and a social asset, or do we want parents and children to be a consumer asset? Is this our view of the social state today, of education and of our country? Our answer is clear. I think yours is clear, too, but I think what we need today is not the ideals of neoliberalism. It is a truly powerful social state, a education as guaranteed by the Constitution and as the struggles of teachers and the front of education have guaranteed all over the past few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u177	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u178	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let me follow up on what the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman said, first of all, point (16) of Article 16.8 of the Constitution expressly stipulates: 'Law defines the conditions and conditions for granting authorisations for the establishment and operation of non-State education courses, those relating to supervision of them and the service situation of teachers'.' What does 'law define'? It's a classic authoritative case that the Constitution gives. He doesn't tell you to legislate in one direction or the other. He's just telling you to establish a special regime. That's what he tells you. It doesn't give you direction. The law, therefore, defines a special regime - I mentioned it earlier - too many aspects of this regime's supervision. Therefore, the law also sets out the conditions and conditions for the establishment and operation of all the previously mentioned contracts, regardless of whether the contracts are indefinite or fixed or not and whether the complaint is causal or invoicable. What do we anticipate here? In addition to the provisions of Law 682, the first is that contracts will necessarily be for an indefinite period from where they were for a certain period of two years, thus a special scheme. Secondly, that these contracts will be subject to labour legislation once again, and thirdly, we also place particular emphasis on paragraph 2 in the context of the verification of the legality and misuse of the complaint, as to whether or not the complaint is an unfair practice. Therefore, on the basis of the established case-law of the Council of State and Decision No 622 is compatible with the Constitution, both the legislative characterisation of contracts of subordination, whether as a certain or as an indefinite one, and the legislative provision in favour of the inappropriate complaint. Two more comments, if I may, Mr President. I will ask you, because you said that it could be felt that we are giving teachers the opportunity. I would like to ask: do you agree or disagree with the possibility for teachers to work both in foreign language centres and in schools, always in accordance with existing legislation? Do you disagree? Do you disagree that teachers have this extra opportunity to increase their income? Thirdly, you referred to donations to New Democracy. The reason why we can have this debate is that the New Democracy was brave enough to make public every donation it has received, all of which are legal with the framework that was in place at that time. Why can't we ask ourselves what the donations SYRIZA has received? But because SYRIZA hasn't made them public. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] For SYRIZA, only stories about shops and paragons come out, while the New Democracy has the courage to publish every element in full transparency. I close with the amendment tabled in due course concerning the selection and placement of temporary primary and secondary school directors, not permanent, Mr Philly, as you have said. By a specific date, legislation is laid down in order to establish and complete the planned reorganisation of the structures of education. Why did that happen? First, because the mandate of the current ones has expired since July 2018 on SYRIZA. Secondly, because those who have been selected have been chosen on the basis of laws that have been found unconstitutional. Thirdly, there have been decisions by administrative appeals that have cancelled these posts, because SYRIZA has legislated a system under which directors among others were chosen and under secret ballot. Fourthly, because dozens of addresses operate with surrogates. The positions have been vaccinated in a few minutes. It is therefore a temporary arrangement that provides for procedures transparent by an impartial selection board, unless you consider our universities to be party bodies, as has been said before. It is therefore a concrete arrangement that is being made, because these choices of SYRIZA were considered unconstitutional by the Council of State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u179	And there is talk of Amendment No 429 and Amendment No 37.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u180	Could I have the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u181	Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, thank you very much. Three answers: First, Article 16(8) has a unity, Madam Minister. It's not cut off. Clearly a law is needed, but supervision goes and is consistent with the service situation of teachers, precisely in the logic that the 1975 Constitution comes to recognise education as an individual right, but now, through this supervision, it is also provided for as a social asset. Your bill is in a completely different concept and the logic that education is a commercialisation and a private initiative - you said it clearly - and of course it extends the change in working relations. Secondly, it is clearly against teachers in private education, when you are currently putting them in the common labour legislation, which you have already as a government. Much more is paid off when you tell them that voluntarily they can reduce their hours and, of course, their pay or voluntarily and voluntarily be in the extra educational activities, which we can imagine the consequences of the release of redundancies. As far as private educational institutions and sponsorship are concerned, the representative himself said that we gave it from their wallet. But the criticism here, Minister, is that there is a customer approach. In other words, they chose to give you as a party in the elections and it is clear that they have a major role in the government's choices in the bill you bring, as in the previous one, they were the ones who defended you first. We're not saying it's illegal. But we're saying there's a client dispute in this case. As far as SYRIZA is concerned, it has visible resources. And I have to tell you that SYRIZA's candidates were doing only party procedures. We didn't spend any money. There was a specific wall, and of course we didn't have that kind of sponsorship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u183	Good. Let us now give the floor to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Lebanese.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. None of us would interrupt a dialogue between two of our fellow Members and always documented and serious. So it's a pleasure to watch you from this step too. Today we are discussing the second link of a chain of initiatives by the Ministry of Education. About a month ago we had the bill to upgrade public school. Today we have the bill to upgrade private school. That's how I see it. As in the previous one, you raised the world up in the committees on the issues of unconstitutionalism. All of you have been criticised there. We saw today that, at the end of the day, you did not exercise the right to come here to discuss with the possibility that this bill might be judged unconstitutional. You know very well that the provisions of the Ministry of Education's political leadership, now and then, are constitutional. It has done its job very well because it is working systematically with only one aim: strengthening education throughout the spectrum. This practically shows the consistency and actions of the Government of the Lord Mitsotakis. In this context, I, personally, would like to congratulate the political leadership - Mrs Kerameos, Mrs Zacharakis, and the dean I saw coming now - for their efforts. It is, in fact, hypocritical to try to connect interests and money to the effort to upgrade private education. It also becomes a comedian that some of your MPs refer to an endless rushphetti, when many of you SYRIZA Members and also MERA25 choose to send their children to these private schools. I think it's hypocritical. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Sakhara Sakhara, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council,]] But it is worse and saddening to be a mediator for the Minister of Education of our country. As is also the case outside the parliamentary ethics of the characteristic movement of fingers you have made implying money laundering. What do you mean by that? That there are executives of our government who are financing? That the New Democracy itself is being funded? If that is what you mean, then, dear friend, give the House names and addresses. No mud, no lies in the fan. If you still meant something else in your mind, those expressions and moves have escaped you, then I would ask you to be honestly rejoicing with all due respect. I really respect you personally. You know that. I always listen carefully to your views regardless of whether I ideologically disagree vertically. I strongly disagree with what you are proposing, but we fully respect you. We recognize that you have the courage of your opinion, the courage of the opinion of a true left-winger who sometimes goes against the current of your party. But I'm sorry to say that, this time you're deported. Personal attacks on politics are only being charged to overcome the impossibility of arguments. I understand that you are unable to compare yourself with technocratic arguments. You cannot stand up to political arguments. And that's why you resorted to the personal attacks on Ms. Keramea. It is rather annoying that a new, well-trained scientist and an effective politician stand toward you. But most of all, I'm afraid it bothers you that he's right. But all these attacks ultimately reduce the credibility of SYRIZA not of the New Democracy. Mrs. Kerame, personally and politically is judged and vindicated. Honestly and with all the respect I have for you, the best for this process and for the debate on education itself is to withdraw these designations. Ladies and gentlemen, the four and a half years of SYRIZA's governance has practically demonstrated your ideological orientation but also your ideological hatred and passions. You have shown your viciousness in the middle class and in the free trade. With outdated concepts of government you have renounced everything private and, of course, in this context and in private education. Since you have not been able to close it completely, as the Minister and other Members have told you, you have dehydrated private education in the light of equal understandings which are essentially calling for a single education uniformity. You strengthened interventionism and overconcentration, making state control of private education suffocate. Private schools have been stripped of decision making even for the simplest everyday things. However, the comparison of the institutional framework in our country was disappointing until before and before in relation to the rest of Europe. We are one of the last countries of the European Union, where it is necessary to implement exactly a national curriculum without any derogation. You want to regulate everything, while the trend in all developed states is to give schools freedom and strengthen their essential autonomy. How far back does SYRIZA stand in history? If we do not leave private schools - together with the experimental ones, which we were discussing a month ago - to develop alternative teaching methods, then how will we strengthen innovation in this place? This bill practically comes to cure the distortions that you have imposed. Our rapporteur, Mrs Pipilis, has always spoken excellently. He spoke technically, politically and ideologically and analyzed the aspects of the bill. So did the honourable Members and the Minister a moment ago. I just want - to save time - to share with you a thought. With this draft bill, which we are asking for and will be voting for today, private schools are given the flexibility required in order to strengthen the initiative and innovation, to increase the efficiency of school units for the benefit of pupils at the end of the day, without losing constitutional supervision by the state. This is a complete dissatisfaction. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the public and private sectors can work at the same time and complement each other. We don't see them either antifungals or antisuppressants. That is why this draft law reflects the deep ideological differences in our policy from those of SYRIZA. For us the market, private initiative is not an enemy. It is a critical and necessary area for the prosperity and progress of society and the economy. With the foundation of our policy on equal opportunities and social justice - and we repeat this to you every time - our liberal and progressive proposals are ultimately effective and developmental, especially in the sensitive area of education, public and private. Dear Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulos, we're not neoliberal. We've told you many times. We are radically liberal, progressive and conservative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u185	You used to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u186	Years ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u187	You'll like what I say. We are democrats right, centred and speak - unfortunately you - directly at the heart of all progressive and liberal centre-lefters. We are the sideline of the measure, of the great national decisions and we are, finally, the party - you will allow me to say it - of logic. In our homeland, from what we have read, 6% of students are in private schools. Maybe the percentage is low, as Mr. Friend said before. But it is high compared with the rest of Europe in terms of non-subsidised private schools. We are one of the few countries we do not have state subsidies for private training. If we do not make a mistake about what we have been looking for, from private education, the state saves more than EUR 400 million every year. In fact, private schools children are not provided free of charge with educational, school books, which if I'm not mistaken has not been corrected and perhaps the Ministry's leadership should look at it, as all of us parents who have the luck or the choice to send our children to private schools, are normally taxed and doubled for the education of our children. Ladies and gentlemen, the upgrading of education requires a reduction in state centralisation and an increase in freedom of experimentation and competition. The competition between several providers of education services, public and private, leads to an increase in quality and a reduction in the state. Both - and take note of this - are particularly important to the non-preferential. Now Mr. Castanides has come, and he knows well about the unprivileged. That's what we're doing and that's what we're going to do. Our goal is the total flight of Greek education forward, for all Greek women and all Greeks and especially for the weakest. For education is the most valuable tool for building the new Greece that our Government and New Democracy dreams of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u189	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u190	Please, Mr. Philly, tell me why.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u191	Madam President, you have heard. For five minutes, the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative spoke of me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u192	Every time a colleague talks about something, will we take the floor and interrupt the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u193	From 11 minutes, he was talking about me. If it's not personal, then what is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u194	Did he blame you on anything? That's what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u195	Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u196	Please, just a minute. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u197	Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Levane, thank you for my appreciation for my face. That's why I'm going to the trouble of answering you right away. The Minister accused me of saying that I wanted to do the public school so good that it would make private. Is that a charge? And that's what the Minister of Education says, to prove that SYRIZA is undermining private school. That's what he wants to say, that's not what we said. As well as the other statement he brought here and did not read it all. I said as Minister: the state's obligation is to ensure the right to education in all children, which means to upgrade the public school. That's where we'll be judged. Is that dead? When these things are said by the Minister of Education, you understand that he is taking a stand in favour of some - I mean private schools - and against some, that is, public schools. And when in front of it, in the House, the representative of the schools of private teachers, the owners of private schools, says that private schools are better than public schools two years and that the Minister does not respond, who advertises private schools at the expense of public schools? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u199	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u200	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u201	Mr. Philie, I didn't want to go on with what you said this morning, even though it was obviously extremely insulting. I didn't want to go on because I thought you didn't mean to tell you the truth. However, since you are constantly giving, and because you do not withdraw those which are extremely insulting, let us put things to the right dimension. What's the right dimension? That you oppose everything private, and when there is a political force that says "public school above all, of course to strengthen the public school, but at the same time also to give degrees of freedom and autonomy to private school and private initiative", once we are engaged in something private, we care, we serve interests, we serve scales and so on. Mr. Philly, you understand that with all due respect. Private initiative is nothing bad. The private initiative exists in the Greek Constitution. The private initiative is an extremely important area in which, together with the public, our country can progress in all areas. It's sad, though. It is sad, because once the New Democracy Government is involved with anything private, because you do not have any arguments, as our Parliamentary spokesman rightly said, because you have poor arguments, you say 'they work with the private, so there is a transaction'. It's really sad, Mr. Friend, and I'll agree with Mr. Lebanese. It is sad that you are really a parliamentarian with very long experience, a very important parliamentarian, and it is sad to see such a work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u202	Mrs Eleftheriadou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u203	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is now commonly accepted that after the statement by the Minister, you are now legislating for your donors and paying off your election bills. The sums given to you are up to the vote in the middle of the summer and with the schools this bill is closed, which contradicts society as a whole and affects 6% of the students, while in the long term it affects 100% of the students. A bill that opposes - according to the comments made during the consultation - 80% of the stakeholders involved and, of course, because they did not help you in these schools, your parliamentary representative in the committees called for consultation to be held in a pityful manner. I do not know whether you have the same view, Minister, because I did not see you condemn the statement of your parliamentary representative. Today, in your speech, you brought us to submit to the Minutes only the letter of the parents of private schools. Didn't you bring or take into consideration your comments - over a thousand five hundred in consultation within a week - which 79.16% of them were negative? Why didn't you bring the letter from the board of directors of EUROPALSO, which accuses you of extinguishing a whole sector, the one of foreign language schools? Why didn't you bring the press release of the Association of Arts Educational Courses, which he calls you inconsistent? Why didn't you bring the IAEA press release, which talks about an evaluation tool, arbitraryness, lawlessness and blackmail? Why didn't you bring the press release of ADED, which talks about an anti-educational and anti-educational bill? Why didn't you bring the ILO communication, which speaks of misconduct, of dismantling labour relations, of punitive punishment procedures? Why didn't you bring the GSC press release, which says you hand over the public good of education to private schools and raises the question of the legality of the publication of equal degrees? You also referred to a yesterday's article by Mr. Lixouriotis at "Kathemerini", which I have just read, and you referred to it as a surprise that a worker was supposed to support this bill. I was not surprised that Mr. Lixouriotis made this article yesterday. It won't surprise me if you tell me that he also gave your opinion on some of the provisions of this bill. Why invoke an article from a university worker, whom I had the honour of having a teacher, but whose views are known to be friendly to employers. In fact, Mr Lixouriotis supported Mr Laurentis Laurentiades as a lawyer in the famous fertiliser case - I also had an argument - when Mr Laurentiadis fired a hundred and eighty workers, without compensation, with a lawsuit and left them out and he still has them out. Mr. Lexouriotis, the technician you invoke, was his lawyer. This morning, our parliamentary representative asked you whether you would bring any amendments to the Ministry of Labour and you said no. This bill should come as an amendment from the Ministry of Labour, as far as teachers are concerned. In addition to bringing the indiscriminate decision to the teachers of education, something that was not there, except that in order to get rid of them, employers no longer have to go through the judiciary and judge whether redundancies are abusive or illegal, you are changing working law as well. So did Mr. Lixouriotis not tell you that fixed-term contracts, to be reported, do there need a great deal of reason? What are you doing with this bill, Minister? You say that when the fixed-term contract expired in 2020, it will expire on 31 August. That's illegal. You're modifying Labour Law. At the moment Mr Brutsis should be here and bring in amendments to labour law. You say that two-year contracts ending in 2021 are automatically converted into an indefinite period of time. Also illegal. Without the worker's consent? Why are you doing this? You do it because when the contract is fixed time you cannot fire workers before the end of the contract. Make the contracts unlimited so they can be fired immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u204	Two months?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u205	That's it, because it's unnecessarily dismissal. And you'll see how many...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u206	Two months?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u207	That's exactly what it is and don't laugh.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u208	Please don't talk to each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u209	...your bill. You say that the two-year contracts, which are currently in force, and end in 2021, are automatically transformed into an indefinite period of time. That's what you say in the bill. When the contract is a fixed term it cannot be terminated if there is no great reason. When the contract is unlimited, it is now unnecessarily denounced. You'll see how many teachers before the start of the school year they'll be fired unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u210	So you want teachers to be unemployed. We say: 'Infinity of time'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u211	I'm telling you this and don't do what you don't understand: according to labour law...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u212	Mr Colleague, continue your speech and please do not discuss it either with the Minister or with the colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u213	I have to answer. Under Labour Law fixedterm contracts cannot be terminated before they expire. By law, you end them before they expire. Did Mr. Lexouriotis not tell you that workers will be working without their consent - say here: 'will they be working in partner or neighbouring school units of the same or other grade, in schools, in the same employer's or another employer' - that this is a harmful change and that others are saying Labour Law? Has he not told you that the reduction in working hours should also have the consent of the worker, and if, as you say, the worker will voluntarily reduce his working hours, will the office have to change? He didn't tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u214	Unless there is a total reduction by specialty.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u215	Please. In introductory terms, the ‘voluntary reduction’ is a ‘negative reduction’. There will be no voluntary reduction and you know it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I will need another minute. With the deregulation and the premium for private education, it therefore opens up a very serious issue of the frustration and alteration of evaluation and educational results.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u216	Your Honor, you don't have a minute. You're already done with time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u217	Because I was interrupted. I need another minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u218	Your Honor, let's not stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u219	One more minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u220	My colleague, you don't have a minute left to explain why. Time is six minutes. You have discussed and it is your own point that you are interrupting the debate on your own. You've reached six minutes. Please complete it. Let's not answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u221	I'm closing, Madam President. To use an example for parents to understand what will happen with the work of the teachers, whom you have really made them pawns. Student from Kavala goes to public school, reads, trys. His parents, from their poor income, also pay a certain kind of care, and because he really deserves it, the public school teachers put him at nineteen. Student in Athens goes to private school. He doesn't read and he doesn't try. His parents, having the financial comfort, pay the schoolmaster badly and even do some sponsorship at school. The schoolmaster, satisfied and mainly obliged, instructs teachers, who are now pawns and puppets, to put twenty to the child. What if these two children compete for a place at the same university? What if these two children compete for a post in public? Mrs. Keramea, my own child, who goes to a public school in Kavala and whether I have or do not have the financial opportunity, is there no private school in Kavala to put the 20s, why not have the same chances as your own? So you are selling today integrated educational packages to serve private interests. That should be the title of your bill. You insult the House, insult teachers, insult all parents, who have no opportunity to send their children to private schools, insult students who strive and dream of studying and finding jobs. You are selling today our children's education, selling grades, selling degrees, selling and sacrificing something invaluable. I was really scared when I heard Mrs. Keramea talking about the first cycle of interventions in education. But I am sure that our society will not let there be a second cycle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u222	Thank you too, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, your speaking time is six minutes. I would ask you very much not to answer questions or challenges made by your colleagues, because you are wasting your time. I can't give you any more time, because it's about talking to another 20 colleagues. Mrs Anagnastopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the honour he gave me yesterday to deal with my humility and a post on Facebook. I will not apologise for my post, especially since it is about my university, which I have been serving for many years. My students, moreover, have been from the New Democracy itself. But I will reply to this communication, which he said about the IGC members, and whether or not I think it should be public or not. I've never learned to operate in politics or in my academic career. I've learned to actually work. So I answer the Minister that she can refer to the Ministry's documents and find them. What I consider to be a PLN member, I proved it by signing it in difficult times when hundreds of PLN members were appointed to universities that collapsed from your own governments. It is demonstrated by the hundreds of managers appointed or returned after the availability that Mr Mitsotakis had made to them. So leave the communication with me as to what I think the LPD members are. Let us come to the truths of the Minister: Really first, client system. We are not talking about private initiative or of strengthening entrepreneurship, we are simply talking about a customer system. Why can it not be a strengthening of entrepreneurship and private initiative, when in private schools - in some private schools - all the other private activities we are for - are not us in favour or against, that makes no difference. Foreign Language Centers, utility, everything. So this is where we're talking about clienteles. It's not the only sample. The New Democracy Government has given us too many samples. I will not comment at all, I think it disgraceful - unconscious - that the President of the Private Schools should come and say: 'It will not run the risk of me in my pocket for the state where I will give my money for the elections in New Democracy'. I didn't like that wording at all. I didn't like it for political reasons, for cultural reasons, for moral reasons. It seems that her gift is received by private education, bringing together all the other private entrepreneurship. Why don't you support her there? You say so. Really second, the great incision you're doing is supposed to be in your own liberal tradition. He's not with us. After all, we are ideologically opposed. Chaos separates us. And the people you call on, the Trinidad Mitafidis and the Kourakis, I would like to tell you that I wish all parties had political forms like Mitafidis and Kourakis. In fact, second, the cut you do is with your liberal tradition, with the tradition of Paul Bakoyannis, with the tradition of Rally, with the tradition of the Constitution of 1975, New Democracy, with the tradition of Giannakou, with the tradition of PASOK, that is to say the best tradition of postmulsion. What was that best tradition? Education as a common good. Today we are not talking about private and public education. We are talking about education as a public asset from wherever it is granted. That's our big difference. You have neoliberal idealism or to put it better has prevailed in the New Democracy the wing of neoliberal idealism. Really third, you're replacing the feasibility check with creative supervision. I will not go too far because I don't have much time. I said it to the committee. Minister, it is not true that your adviser to the IPP by private training is in disciplinary control of misconduct that is too heavy, affecting labour rights, black and undeclared work, misconduct that endanger the safety of children, disciplinary misconduct. Criminals don't care about me here. I'm not a court. Are disciplinary offences pending or not pending? Creative supervision - which is why I spoke about client relationship - covers a number of such phenomena. In fact, fourthly, there is immunity of schoolchildren and the abolition of any concept of education as a public good. Do you know where this results from? Because you're saying it should be children at the center of it. For children to be centred, they must be teachers and teachers. The Special Committee to which teachers of private schools may apply is repealed. Are you a modern and progressive state? For reason, as he said, Mr. Lebanese? Tell me about the truth, in all the modern European states, so as not to force the special category of workers to resort to justice that is time and time, and all that, have provided for special categories of workers to appeal to such special committees? What are these special categories of workers? The most widely managed people give a public asset, i.e. education. Truly, in addition to all other truths, you want to convert education to commodity, students with voucher to customers and parents to customers. Really lately: excellence. What excellence? I'm hanging up with this. You gave us the samples all this time with governors, with Deputys. Is that the excellence you're evangelizing? Mr. Kourakis was accused of being ideological because he wanted to abolish things. Finland, then, is an ideal country? We've lived to hear that too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Mulkiotis now has the floor. Parliamentary spokesman for the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, education is one of the most important public goods and it is, of course, always at the heart of continuous consultation and fermentation with society, because it is well known that it plays the most important role in shaping it. For over a hundred and fifty years, I would say, the dream of progressive teachings has been about forming creative and capable of aesthetic and cooperation by active citizens through an open public school institution critics of thinking people. This dream in the new conditions is dynamically projected as a necessary term and reason of the entire educational process. However, under the ideological and economic hegemony of dominant neoliberalism for competitiveness and materials valued and evaluated according to premiums, of course, productivity, learning from a universal and public right tends to become a marketplace for the "good" knowledge, in a place where students and students are invited to become consumers, users and customers of knowledge and experience, and teachers in simple sellers. The bill, which is now being introduced into a vote in our plenary, serves faithfully this logic, which I mentioned and goes one step further. Not only does it transform the public good of education into a business product, but also its teachers to fearful employees. The final product is the severe and cruel deterioration of the education itself. In other words, this is an unacceptable bill, whereby private teachers are subject to the Ministry of Home and Social Affairs and to the common labour legislation. Therefore, the possibility of undeclared and free dismissal is available at any point in the school year. Conditions are also created for the dismissal of older teachers and the recruitment of younger people, but at a much lower cost. It is, ladies and gentlemen, a bill which has caused a storm of reaction from all the social actors. The AACC is still emptying the Minister. This is a reality and any responses that do not stand up to logic and criticism. Every article in this bill is an additional step towards a complete deregulation of teachers' working relations in private schools. Let's start over. With Article 2, which deals with the evaluation of the educational and educational structures of private schools, it is clear that the Ministry does not have an overall assessment approach, and the latter becomes a ball to the owners of private schools with fragmentary and selective arrangements. Madam Minister, you put a dilemma in the Change Movement. It's a fake dilemma. We don't accept it. Rejected from the outset. Not to us such dilemmas. We have responded in practice. Our rapporteur answered and was clearly placed, so why do you put it? We were "responsible and responding yes" in evaluation throughout the public sector, not in scores and percentages, but in evaluation. Do you remember them? This is also apparent from the way we legislated and legislated. Reminding Law 3848/2010. There's never been an evaluation before. That was and is the assessment, and we are very clear about that. But allow me, too, to ask a few questions and I would not like them to be rhetorical. So who will define the criteria? Who's gonna make it up? Who will be approved and who will check the reliability of the evaluation process during the Ministry? Where will this evaluation be aimed? Who will control the immunity of evaluation? Who will assess and evaluate the assessors? How will these competences be certified? The teachers will also assess the administrations, since they will not object, I believe, because they are in favour of evaluation. So will teachers assess the administrations of schools? Will the Ministry establish criteria and a reliable procedure so that it can exercise the planned supervision as well? Ladies and gentlemen, it is unfortunately clear that this is how evaluation is used as an effective and exclusive tool for manipulating educational and educational work, which is essentially aimed at stigmatisation, competition, reductions in wage costs, divides and reigns, the occupational exhaustion of workers and the disruption of collective climate. With Article 3 school is transformed into a supermarket, essentially, with insecure educational and labour relations – rubber. The provision in paragraph 5 for afternoon activities after the extended off-teaching days of the teaching year, i.e. weekends or holidays, should certainly not work blackmailingly for the trainee. The intensification of language centres with private schools consciously condemns foreign language centres and many small schools in suboptimality and extinction and thousands of underemployment and unemployment workers or black work at best. This bill, instead of abolishing the possibility of any employer attending any teaching club meeting, substantially expands it, blocks any trade union activity, freedom and autonomy of the trade union movement. It is clear that the proposal of the draft with the provisions of No 1264/82, but, ladies and gentlemen, this provision of the bill is perhaps also a co-responsibility for the appropriate application of the private trade unions as well. Moreover, if this provision is in force, it is necessary to amend No 1264/82. Maybe we'll see about that in the next few days. There is no involvement of teachers or teachers in the internal regulation process in this bill. It is also easy for employers - we call it - to fire anyone who wants and above all the old teachers and to maintain those who are more of an interest in it. The most anti-government arrangements are identified in Articles 9 and 10. Nor is the unilateral change in working conditions, that is to say, the change in labour relations. Article 9 stipulates that those private teachers - in introductory words - who wish to do so may work fewer hours than those who write their appointments. So, what's the ministry telling us? That there are workers who want to work much less and with lower pay, to have rather lower pay. In fact, under threat of redundancies, the owner will - it is certain - force teachers to demand a reduction in the hours of teaching and therefore their remuneration, with a given effect on job insecurity and the fear of redundancy. This working process - I do not want to say'master', perhaps even at this point - is sealed with the possibility offered to schoolchildren - it is clear - that teachers should be placed and taught henceforth exclusively at another school or at another school level of the same owner, without the termination of the contract of employment. So, what's the Department doing? He continues the work of the Minister of Labour, ladies and gentlemen, who, in the middle of a lockdown, also because of the coronary pandemic, what did he do? I would remind you that on 20-320 there was an act of legislation which has institutionalised the possibility of transferring personnel to enterprises within the same group. Do you remember that? That's what's happening now. What did Mr. Brutsis say to us then? That this is due to exceptional circumstances. The Minister, Mrs. Kerameou, today, is permanently legislating for these teachers in private schools. I'm continuing with Article 10. The supervision of private teachers' industrial relations by the Ministry of Education is abolished and goes to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The employment contract is transformed into a mere contract of common labour law, in which the provisions on dismissal are fully implemented - they are fully implemented! - half the compensation in the event of a dismissal warning, i.e. a regular complaint of non-payment of compensation in the event of redundancies within the first 12 months of employment, non-payment of compensation in the event of an employer's being sued against the worker. The two-year fixed-term contract is only reported prematurely if there is a great reason, and in the event of non-existence, pay is due until the end of the contract, while compensation for redundancies in the first year of employment is zero, and in the second year it amounts to two wages. Only the minimum, control over the misuse and legality of this complaint is left by the competent courts and only after the committee of judges has also been denounced, which also examines issues of abuse. It is foreseen that judicial review of the legality and misuse of the complaint of the private education contract is examined, in particular, - so says - if the complaint is an unfair employer reaction and behaviour of the private instructor against legal and contractual behaviour. He doesn't prescribe anything that indicates the judge's work, how he's going to move. For there to be such care, I do not understand and I cannot understand what you are explaining, because I believe that this is an unacceptable interference with judicial authority. The special care of the constitutional legislature for the protection of the work of private teachers shall be postponed when it serves the general interest of education, in accordance with Article 16 of the Constitution. Given that today, after the abolition of Law 4623/19, the legitimate ground for dismissal laid down by Law 4611/19, i.e. as an additional condition of validity, the possibility of dismissing ad nutum was applicable and still in Greek law, subject only to the ban on the abuse of a right under Article 281 of the Civil Code. Additional protection under Article 16.8 of the Constitution can now only be guaranteed by special regulations, by way of derogation from the common labour legislation. This protection ceases to exist. The rapporteur, Mrs Kefalidou, has shown all these problems in the bill and has revealed the spirit of the bill to a logic which, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, leads us years back. With regard to the amendment, which you tabled, Minister, yesterday is about the end of the term of office of training directors and emblems, you are choosing new managers with a temporary term of office. In fact, on June 12, 2020, your law was published. At that time, you had foreseen a number of things in Article 52 specifically and extended the term of office of training directors, for the second time. Now and before 50 days, you come and you amend it again. Even in the draft law, this is not mentioned. Wasn't there a prediction? Wasn't that what you want to do today? This - will you allow me to say - is it not a bad law? Is it also a glimpse of the legislature, at the end of the day? We cannot change what we had already voted on in fifty days. But what happened? There are some things here. We see that training managers create some issues. We adopted the unconstitutionalism which existed before the previous government and which had been judged, we continued this unconstitutionalism, and today I heard that, because there is such a thing, we are changing it. Then there wasn't? So what is the feasibility of this particular arrangement, which you have brought with it today? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. I think something's wrong. Perhaps we will also have elections in a short time, and perhaps the IACC will receive a corresponding message in the respective electoral process. But that's thought to be something most bad legislation. In addition, Minister, there are two amendments tabled by the Change Movement. I'm not going to mention them, you know who they are. They refer to the application of the provisions of Article 73 of Law 4585/19 to teachers with irrevocable judgment. It's a matter that runs. It can't go on. I think that you, too, have to make it clear. Finally, we said about e-a paradox that the lack or failure or the problematic issue raised some issues. I think these are amendments not to be, amendments that are essential to the service of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u226	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u227	Thank you very much, Madam President. If I may make two very brief comments to the honourable Parliamentary spokesman for the Change Movement. He said it falls, he says, from now on, private teachers at the Ministry of the Interior. Your colleague Mr. Kefalidou said the other day the Ministry of Labour. I would like to make it clear that neither is true. There is absolutely no change in where private teachers fall. The law is very clear. It provides for specific supervision of the State against private teachers. It doesn't change anything about this part. Secondly, you spoke about the extension given in the previous bill. You are right, but the extension concerned all training staff. That's not all. Let's say, they're the school directors. It was a question of training personnel as a whole. Here, as the dear Mrs Kefalidou has rightly pointed out, these executives, these training directors, their choice has been judged to be unconstitutional. There are administrative appeal decisions that have cancelled these posts. Moreover, many positions have been vacated. It is therefore only for training managers and only for temporary arrangements. Thirdly, I want to come back to something about the Minutes of Parliament. Although Mrs Anagnostopoulou has unfortunately left, I imagine the honourable Members will pass it on to her. He referred to a member of the board of directors of the IPA, without having the bravery today nor the first time to report personally. Why? Because she has obviously been advised by lawyers that what she says is suicidal and does not say that the case has been filed in her criminal arm and that there is absolutely no crisis in the disciplinary part. It simply creates impressions and does so, without even having the courage to mention names, because very clearly these elements are sued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u228	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u229	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u230	Madam Minister, as far as the amendment and the issue you have raised - I have referred to Rule 52 of Law No4692/20, which was voted about fifty days ago - give an explanation. But, Minister, there remains a matter. The whole process is not legal, and you are not introducing anything different. You are now saying that there is an extension of office in a situation which is problematic and well-known. However, you do not restore the institution of the school advisor, which is a programme commitment by Mr Mitsotakis, and the administration has kept the legislative framework intact, which was there. Now you say it, as you say it. There's a matter. In your view, however, the government is fully exposed to this. This amendment is not an amendment that has a rational form, in our view, as it comes, but also in the society of teachers and, more generally, in society. It is an amendment - a trick to the government, as you enter it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u231	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u232	But, Minister, we'll close with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u233	We're closing. First of all, it is a time-consuming amendment. Secondly, we do not extend any mandate with this amendment. We're clear. We provide for a replacement on the basis of a credible selection board, and indeed, through a definition by the rector authorities, by the leaders of the universities. We're not extending any mandate. We're solving a situation. What would be the alternative, as your party has said? Bring in a law on executives. When could we have brought him? Amid COVID. So, we could bring the law on the executives to get exactly those executives to be in place?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u234	That's all you've brought, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u235	You know from own experience that this process takes months. So, what was our choice? We must have a new school year with training directors, who have been judged unconstitutional, who have decisions of administrative appeals that have cancelled their appointment, so there is no longer any more, with posts that have been vaccinated. One last thing: School advisors will come back. We've said it and you'll see it in a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u236	You're exposed no matter what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Minister. Mr Boutsikakis has the floor from New Democracy for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in our time the demand for a upgrading of education is more timely than ever. Through education, the perceptions and attitudes of the whole society are shaped. These, in turn, form the social and political life of the country. Education is directly linked to its future. Without it we have no prospect or future. Education in Greece needs reconstruction, based on the principles of excellence, evaluation, quality, creativity and extroversion. Education needs to be adapted to the needs of modern times, as is the case in the rest of the world. After the public school, with the previous bill of the Ministry of Education, it is time for the private sector to modernise. Once again, we are making our commitments. After all, that is why the Greek people voted for us. Private education in Greece operates under a suffocating and excessively centralised framework, a framework - remnant of other times, which deteriorated even further in the immediate past period. The ideological obsessions of SYRIZA and the state interventionism that it imposed further increased the problem. Result: Private schools cannot exploit either their facilities or their human resources. There is no freedom in education programmes or in off-project activities, pathogens of years, which we are facing today. We amplify the right to choose the school from the parents. We are promoting flexibility in the organisation and operation of school units. Our policy on private education is based on the values of confidence, flexibility and protection. Based on this perception, we are simplifying the operating framework for the efficient management of human resources and the use of building facilities for the benefit of students. Respect for private investment. We fully ensure control of legality, but we allow the school itself to designate its directors and vice-presidents, as well as to draw up an internal rules of operation, without any checks of feasibility by state actors. So, finally, in party choices too. We are liberalising the school programme, so that, in addition to the compulsory, set by the Ministry of Education, each school can add additional activities and even off-site programmes, without any limitations on the days and hours of teaching. We are therefore encouraging creativity. We broaden the possibilities of relocation of pupils, evaluate school units, allow for aggregation, without limitation, we support teachers in practice, since we abolish two-year contracts and do them indefinitely. In addition, we allow them to work outside school hours, even during the summer months, so that they can increase their income legally. These are just some of the innovations in the bill. You are coming again, without any legal support, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, and you are talking about unconstitutionalism and you are talking about class struggles, and it is known that many of you have children in private schools. You say that we are supposed to leave private schools without supervision, when the supervision of the Ministry of Education is clear and clear. You're constantly trying to do the white one. You have managed to be so unfounded and so unrelated to the regulations of the bill, your criticism, which no one knows what to answer for everything you say. Honestly, I wonder who you are addressing or whether you are so underestimating the Greek people. Anachronistic and backwardly everything you serve. Party interests and microparticipation are all of this. Ladies and gentlemen, although this bill primarily concerns private education, it also introduces a very important innovation in public schools. For the first time, the systematic teaching of special courses, which are being examined in the Greek studies, courses such as the design, music and foreign languages, is institutionalized, so that the public school can fully meet the needs of the students, an innovation that has not been done so far so far so that students are not forced to resort to education for their preparation in the Greek examinations, as has been the case for decades until now. That means equal opportunities in practice. Public education for all and above all, for those who do not have the opportunity to pay. Is this the classics you're accusing us of, gentlemen of SYRIZA, because we are taking steps for our non-preferential fellow citizens, those who need and cannot pay for private education? To sum up, I will say that in a world which is constantly changing education cannot remain attached to yesterday. Changes are also needed with eye to eye to eye in the future. With this bill we put an end to suspicion, and we hope that private schools will have a relationship of confidence. We free them from the strangles and ideas of the past, so that they can provide education, with all the meaning of the word. Education means developing critical thinking, cultivating ideas and gifts, overall development and configuration of personality. This can only be done with freedom and creativity. We give private education those features that upgrade it. Along with public education, it will be the country's lever of development and progress. Our vision is a modern Greece, which takes the lead in education, research and innovation. This vision is taking action with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u239	Thank you. Mr. Avramakis has the floor from SYRIZA for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today's bill is unfortunately the culmination of a series of actions and political initiatives by the government, which demonstrate the deeply undemocratic consciousness of the majority of today's executive power. The philosophy followed by government officials has nothing to do with democratic tradition, with the values that have served and served many of the officials of the New Democracy, within and outside the Parliament. Vitrina, communication, immunity, opacity, contempt for all democratic conquests, ex-post change of laws for the settlement of virtues, provocative benefits policies for having, smuggling public money to state-owned entrepreneurs, canalakers and journalists, impoverishment of the majority of the Greek people, authoritarianism, restriction of workers' rights, effort to abolish the protests, complete inability to support the economy, endowed with tourism and foreign policy, continuous production of false news are some of the "achievements" of today's government. Today is the culmination of an unprecedented democratic diversion. Four days after the anniversary of the restoration of democracy, the new values which the government serves and not, I repeat, the whole New Democracy party. It is no longer surprising that the Prime Minister did not make any reference to Constantine Karamanlis in his message to restore democracy. The new values of the government's officials have nothing to do with what was supported by its founder. It is not the first time, in modern, at least, political history of our country, that we have a bill dictated by comparative interests. It is, however, the first time in the history that New Democracy sponsors of private education have called for and imposed this bill. In itself, this should be enough to vote against the bill as a whole and to have a real consultation, with all those involved in private education, whether and on what points changes are needed in the current institutional framework. The government does not, however, pay attention to such details. The client has bought specific things, and these have to be delivered to him. Reactions to this bill are many and not only concern the directly affected teachers. ADEDY, GSEE, IAEA, even the IAEA, condemned all today's bill of school degradation in a business like all others. Abolition of labour rights, downgrading of teachers to employees, full freedom for owners to do what they want and provide whatever services they want, directly or indirectly, related to education. Aggregation of unrelated structures, without any preconditions for aggregation of primary and secondary structures already permitted. Open the way to be located in the same areas from infants to students from private colleges and IEK even for Lifelong Learning Centres. You do not care what effects pedagogical can be on the co -mortem of young children with adults. You now allow private schools to settle with foreign language schools and lie that this was allowed and abolished by SYRIZA in 2017. You were devastated by the Panhellenic Association of Language Center Owners, but you don't even care about this. You have specific customers to serve, who want to gather on them all the educational services and not just services, at the lowest possible cost. You don't respect either the cornerstone of every school, public and private, which is the teacher. You allow private schools owners to employ teachers on weekends, in the summer, to work longer, without being rewarded, necessary. You're liberating redundancies. You allow an arbitrary assessment, without rules, and you grant control of the work relations to the Ministry of Labour, instead of being subject to the supervision of the Ministry of Education. You allow internal operating regulations to be formulated freely and you do not even bother to check the impact these regulations may have in the pedagogical process. You allow owners to designate whoever they want as director or deputy director, without ensuring that they have experience and qualifications, to take such positions of responsibility. As long as the teachers and managers are obedient to their employers. Their employers, after all, are your clients. You turn education managers - who have a substantial role in controlling what is happening and in private schools - into people who will simply ratify what the owners - shareholders, without any possibility of intervention. You create a framework that will be completely opposed to any concept of school, educational process, education. Owners will be even more free to persecute teachers if they, for example, complicate a child of a significant political person for copying. They will be able to cover even easier cases of bullying and various scandals that have seen the light of publicity behind their closed doors. They will be able to bring together more educational processes, without any effective control of compliance with the rules applicable to public structures. But the main thing you are doing is, unfortunately, that you are looking against the children themselves. Open the way, to stay in an educational structure for too many years, until they even have a private university degree. This will have a serious impact on their adulthood process. You want to exclude these children from any socialisation, grow blocked from reality, probably because you think that's how they'll be protected from radicalisation. You form a training framework that teaches them that teachers are their employees, which teaches them that everything is being redeemed, that teaches them that their rights are not for everyone themselves, but are dependent on their financial situation. You teach them that the buildings are stable, but people are replaced by concise procedures, with an accredited act of the property of the buildings. Whatever you say, the bill is a transaction product. It's a note you're paying off today. It is a note of political support in the form of sponsorships and financial support from your political friends, which is now being redeemed by this bill. In conclusion, we denounce you that you are abolishing the justification for redundancies. You are bringing an amendment that you are ceasing the directors of primary and secondary education and you are launching the process of defining new - temporary - you are telling us - through a appointed five-member committee, leaving, in addition to the hereditaries of the industry, a diabetic procedure that circumvents all sense of sovereignty and fair treatment, since there are no longer objective criteria and molecules. The aim of the leadership of the Ministry of Education and the Government is to designate members of the education in every corner of Greece as members of their party environment and, of course, to control all the joints of power and restore the normality of the rule of law of the party state, taking the view of the legitimate ownership of the State and the staffing of the public administration and the state mechanism with the modestness of the party clienteles. You liberate redundancies, elasticize labour relations, catalyse labour rights, and give schoolchildren the right to operate their schools as tutors. Your valiant desire is to decentralize the new generation, to cultivate insurmountable neoliberalism and to retain the neo-conservative right-wing perception with party control of any infamous state mechanism. Your aim is to dismantle the youth so that it has been manipulated and claimed to become manipulated and manipulated. You won't make it! Whatever you say, I believe that you have been under the bar, Minister, and you are often exposed to public opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Heimaras from New Democracy has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u242	Madam President, Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin a little strange. I had a conversation with Mrs Pipili in the building, where she told me that we should be held back and not drift away from confrontations of meaningless nature, because the truth is that that is why we all new MPs have been elected. You're absolutely right, Mrs. Pipili. But I come to Stepma after the previous speaker, and I heard and I have been able to make a great deal of progress. I have been able to note ‘donors are imposing the bill’, ‘consciousness’, ‘lagoya’, ‘trading product’. But "... money to canaries and journalists"? Is that what you said? "Locked rooms" did you say to us, when he came to the public a little while ago, that Mr. Papapas was setting Mr. Kalogritsa up to come down to the contests to check the country's TV map?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u243	Was Mr. Pappas taking money?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u244	Please, sir. I'll keep Mrs. Pipilis' advice and get into the bottom of the bill. Just last month, in this Chamber, we voted for the bill on upgrading the public school with arrangements from the educational pyramid, that is, from kindergarten to high school. With today's bill, we complete and complete the first cycle of intervention in primary and secondary education. We are introducing measures for private education. But why does private education need our legislative intervention? Because, unfortunately, we are observing the phenomenon of strong state intervention in this area, resulting in serious distortions, which inevitably cancel the parent's constitutional right to the choice of public and private schools, respectively. But why is the constitutional right to freedom violated? For the simple reason that the state intervenes so much in private schools, abolishing the right to substantial differentiation of them. Explain what the meaning of private schools is then. The bill, which we are discussing today, leads us from excessive state intervention to the self-evident logic of beneficial supervision. I would like to make this clear at this point. Obviously, no one claims that private schools should be operated out of control. Yes, the state must function supervisoryly. At the same time, however, business freedom and autonomy must be guaranteed. The truth is that the previous government wanted to level and demonise private education when it banned evaluation in private schools when it restricted the possibility of further training activities when planning to impose VAT on private education 23%. Why all this? Of course, so no one can choose private education. This is absurd both for their own parents and children and for their own entrepreneurship and workers. What did we hear in committee? We have heard this: 'Because we cannot convince you, we will do you with our laws unnecessarily'. That phrase says it all. I should also like to remind you that the director of directors had then sent to all the private schools of responsibility in the document, asking within five days to inform him if they had carried out an evaluation of their educational staff. In the event of a negative response, this was not sufficient. He was asked to send him responsible statements from the teachers concerned, which would indicate that they have not been evaluated by the private school. In other words, the state considered that the school owners are unreliable and it is necessary that the trainers testify not to carry out an evaluation, with a responsible statement, in order to confirm the Ministry's will. The exaggerated zeal at that time some training directors were the result of a demonstration of loyalty to the Ministry after the recent assignments of tasks in 2016. These two examples illustrate SYRIZA’s indifferent idealism. This piece of legislation comes to bring about a healthy balance between state supervision and autonomy, which the state owes to private schools. These regulations of the bill release the private school from strangles and ideologies, also give private education those features, which make it along with the public school a lever for development for the country. The aim of this report is to improve the quality of life of the peoples of Europe, to improve the quality of life of the peoples of Europe, to improve the quality of life of the peoples of Europe, to improve the quality of life of the peoples of Europe and to improve the quality of life of the peoples of Europe. With the bill on the upgrading of education, we have made the Greek universities a pole of attraction for students from all over the world. They will already operate our first foreign language undergraduate and postgraduate programmes. The bill, ladies and gentlemen, only elite cannot be described. It regulates private education, but without removing the quality from public education, which - let me say further with the innovation referred to in Article 14, which concerns the systematic teaching of pan-Hellenic special courses in public schools. In closing on this point, let me, as a parent above all, send out a warm thanksgiving to all those teachers who, in the vortex and uncertainty of the pandemic, did their best for our children, giving their best, supporting our children, unintentionally continuing their work, self-sacrificingly serving their most important duty, the ultimate provision of a democratic state, education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Amanatidis from SYRIZA has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u246	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Secretary, Madam Secretary, it's good to see you and you're here all hours from what I see. However, Minister, let me tell you that bravery is not to say “we took it off”. It would be brave to say: even though we took this money, we do not do them the favor of breaking up the teachers' industrial relations. I'd call that braveness. But what you're doing isn't brave. I do not characterize it, but it is not bravery. However, your bill is revealing the Government's positions and attitudes. You have a rigid attitude, as in the bill you speak of flexicurity, of fertile surveillance. I believe that this attitude, Minister, is due to arrogance, which governs the overall government policy, but in particular your Ministry, from the election results, of course, of the polls. The past election results cannot be the swimming pool of Siloam, and every time all the anti-population parties here say "you're going wrong", you say, "we got the mandate." This isn't Siloam's swimming pool. Looks like you're driving on a one-way road. Everyone warns you and they come across from the cars and you say 'no, I go well and everyone else is wrong'. You are only interested in the Parents' Association in private schools. The Higher Association of Parents of Greece - I will submit the relevant documents - is told by the ADEDY - tells you that by the IOE, OLEME, OELEE, even the Scientific Committee of Parliament tells you. In any case, if you so much want to let those who go to private homes do what the owners only want, do what is done in Europe. There are two types of private schools: those controlled by the state and their programme and with safe labour relations, etc. and those who are free and autonomous, but whose qualifications go through the examination procedure, so that they are equal. We're hitting the risk bell in relation to the equivalence of diplomas. Minister, on the dissolution of labour relations, the Scientific Committee of the Parliament points out the following: 'Article 10 abolishes the existing special status governing the employment relationship of teachers in private schools of teachers, which states, among other things, that the termination of a contract of employment is subject to political control by an independent committee. By the proposed regulation, on the other hand, control is only judicial and in its context, especially if the complaint is an unfair employer reaction, etc. As regards the definition of the concept of unfair reaction, it must not be held that the teacher at school performs a function, the uninterrupted performance of which requires elementary independence, the exercise of which is, of course, subject to both self-control and external evaluation.’ Speaking of which, do you let the owners add evaluation criteria and now you have the only restriction to be in the internal operating regulations? But - here you must not mock us - who makes the rules of procedure? The headmaster alone at the school. The school teacher club is involved anywhere - only the school manager! -, in which, in fact, a training association, if any, is there already a member of the company or of the school? In other words, the internal rules of operation only make him the director, the agencies can do nothing but file a number of complaints and you come and tell us that 'yes, I put this in the order'. Well, it's not like that. Madam Minister, you have used very good words, such as 'fruitful supervision'. So let the free choice be made to the owners of private schools either in one category or in the other. The feds have asked you to make a month of patience, withdraw it and go into dialogue. You didn't accept that either. At the end of the day, from your truths, it is true that the Constitution ensures, of course, Article 16, but, Minister, executive power always brings laws which, when it wants to destabilise the substance of the provisions of the Constitution, always destabilizes it. A characteristic example was the law brought by Mr. Chrysochide in connection with the right of assembly. That's exactly what you do now. Can we let all the school owners do it? No, because what we are talking about now, in fact, is a public good and we are interested in as a state, as a society, in what areas they are taught, what they are taught, from whom they are taught and how they are taught. It's a public good. In the end, it was said: 'it owes teachers. The good teacher does not need to be permanent." Minister, then let me tell everyone everywhere. Not even the good civil servant needs a permanent clause, no one has. Let it all go. Is that the tactic? Remember what happened with the available resources again? Evaluation, you said. When you only say an evaluation, that doesn't say anything to anyone. You will tell us who assesses, how it assesses, on what criteria it assesses, what it assesses and then we discuss the evaluation. If I remember the evaluation, where he put a 10% threshold, which had to have 10% under 5, so that there would be a tank of available available in Mr. Mitsotakis' earlier policies, that would suspect us very much. Finally, what about education? We in private schools want permanent teaching staff to be available, better and more effective, and state supervision of them. And all this, of course, for the transitional period, which will still be private education. Because the long-term policy of the state must be the abolition and supply by the state of free education. Did Mr. Kourakis or Mr. Mitafidis say these, ladies and gentlemen of co-determination? That was the essence of the words and Mr Kourakis and Mr Mitafidis. Mr Bakoyannis said that, however, and our colleague, Mr Philadelphia, read it to you earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say, with all the emotional burden, because I am also a teacher - I want from this Step forward to say thank you to the fighters in the classrooms, but also to those who have retired, because they are shaping youth - that it is not enough for a piece of work alone. You are now asking that there be "willing" here, not for the good of the students. And freelance teachers produce freelance students. Indeed, your goal is the students. I think that this should not be allowed, not one, a state - which you are driving with this, I regret to say, on these issues - but I think that the educational movement, the parental movement and the student movement will find it in front of you. Madam President, a few words about the training directors that you are abolishing. On the board, of course, I do not question the university students you have - and you say what the criteria are, but you do not share them. The fact that there is no modulation of criteria is very important because everyone will have these criteria. With how many molecules each, what's the measurable, what's the ratio? These are not mentioned. This is what we call the occupation of the state, the 'brain' of the election results. Short duration is these. Be well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u248	Madam President, the reason for a point of order. Let me ask the Minister something.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u249	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u250	We want to ask the Minister at some point, because we are approaching the end of the procedure, to tell us which of the parliamentary amendments are accepted by the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u251	He said before that he would answer that. Madam Minister, will you now answer that or later? Later, okay. Mr Blucho has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, two missionaries, one Christian instructional school, then one in kind and finally one in agricultural school. The genocide of Christian populations in Asia Minor, the exchange of populations, the establishment of the destroyed schools for the refugees and forced population. Finally, two educational institutions standards, stations in the history of Greek education. I am talking about two important private educational efforts, initiated by Constantinople and Merzifuda of the Pontou, and in the last hundred years they have run out to Macedonia, preparing new and new ready for science, production and processing, without theoretical fierce. I believe that many of us regardless of politics, ideological positioning we carry a poorness and an elementary mood to contribute to social transformation and to a new eternal struggle against yesterday, to rustiness, to aggression and backwardness. Certainly, we look forward to fighting in education and whoever can through his own powers. Private education in Greece means exactly this thing, having a vision of educational, social and entrepreneurial, yes, changing the world. In private schools even the ambition of becoming a well-known and mighty institution is not vanity or speculation. It is an offer similar to that of the great benefactors. Because the private school is not made to offer just what the public is. It is also designed for the educational vision of the private trade and teacher for the post-school school, for the freedom to give what he has and does not have to do with his student, beyond the proper compulsoryity and the proper preservation of the classical pan-Hellenic educational program. We are talking about institutions that accept the disgusting and irreversible evaluation of the citizen, where everything is judged by efficiency and innovation, and of course, by the citizens' ability to strengthen private effort, to trust it and to bring it to fruition as something special and important. With the responsibility of previous government, private schools, free choice schools were in danger of being convicted of decency only because they were called private. Approximately, the ban on the evaluation of educational work, the restriction of the possibility of additional educational activities, the permanentization of teachers as if they were civil servants with all the bad breeze, which follows this concept, have stopped incentives in the direction of continuous improvement, while state supervision has led them to suffocation with the ultimate aim of homogenisation. Here, because today's opportunity to give in to the present we are experiencing the failure of the Left and now it is so crystallized that it is imprinted. Clearly, it is unable to analyse the reality, to read it in principle, to analyse it by extension. But why is its spreading or better obsessive dedication to the old Left political orthodoxness and thus unable to fold? Is the illusion that social rights such as education can be ridden over time, while at the same time unleashing cords against entrepreneurship and trampling among them? However, the main component of these approaches is and - you deny it unrepentantly - that you no longer represent the people, because they are no longer your own people. Your goal has been relocated, your reference team. That means you're condemning self-determination. There is now the greatest and most substantial difference between us. We invest in openness. You have had, through incredible performances, to be involved in the Shadow Committee, demonstrating your fascist complicity. We, with methodicity and determination, change the data. It will also require a significant change in culture and a redefinition of our basic values. Of course, some must eventually convince all kinds of left-wing and socialist politicians that the social state is not guaranteed by the suffocation of the healthy forces of a society. Of course, they are the finest letters, as Mrs Anagnostopoulou said about traditional and stubbornly established in another reality left. Your complaint against the imaginary neoliberalism you have created in your mind, as well as against the elitism you imagine, has taken a form of delirium. Do you manage against the educational and business freedom of these private schools, you imaginable undifferentiated slandering, denouncing what? The possibility of modulation, selection, additional knowledge, as the foundation of democracy and freedom? This isotopeic ideological empathy betrays the poverty of your arguments and states your untreated compulsion Don't you realize that by evoking sound and splendid expressions you are self-sufficient? You say or add a theoretical openness and a pluralism to education and popular education. You present it, as fighters of equality and democratic meaning in education, but your arguments are meaningless. The classics, elitism, fantasy neoliberalism are for SYRIZA the swimming pool of Siloam. It is the dogmatic coating, which despite the displacements, continues to use its stalks. The Indian and parallel appalling form of the Left populist model of equality, the reflection of which is a misrepresented class. Why, what else is out of an unambiguous classic against effort, differentiation, the offer of the young man, the invisible, of another alleged person? You question reality through your contradictions and paradoxes. You're undermining her. The present, ladies and gentlemen, is a piece of legislation which is aimed at freedom, freedom of choice, freedom of additional effort, freedom of additional improvement. Goodness has as an enemy the best. This bill gives the opportunity to show freely everything that is best for a different and better life, indifferent to ideological strangles and idols. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u253	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. The spokesman for the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Digalakis, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Madam President. A private education bill is being discussed. It is an important bill, as it reduces interventionism and strengthens private initiative. I really regret the fact that, instead of criticising the substance of the provisions, the Qualified Opposition resorts to categories and theories and conspiracy. I'll focus on mine. I would remind you that, about a month and a half ago, in this Chamber, we discussed some provisions concerning higher education. One of these was the electronic vote, the reintroduction of the electronic vote in the elections of universities. There, we had heard theories of conspiracy, such as that bad primary schoolman would close or threaten the assistant professor to blackmail his vote. We have heard of the inconsistency of the vote, the inconsistency of the vote. What happened? A month and a half later, we had a republican election at six universities, which were completed last week, with complete success. The percentages we had in these elections are as follows: at the University of Patras 97%, at Panteion 99.5%, at Charios 94%, at the Economic University 100%, at the Ionian University 99% and at the University of Crete 97%. We had a complete success, and there was no complaint. The new republican authorities were selected. We wish them a success in their term of office. We'll have a good partnership. I come to the provisions relating to the highest, and I will concentrate on one, which is true that it has really dispersed attention in the debate, but that does not mean that it is not important. This applies to the percentage retained in the university's special accounts by teachers engaged in business activity. The legislator has predicted that a percentage should be retained, which will be attributed to the university. A two-year arrangement was made by SYRIZA two years ago, effectively trying to regulate the way in which this process will take place, the percentage will be attributed. Despite the fact that two years have passed and over a year since the relevant CSR was issued, nothing has been done. This means that funds have been lost from the universities. Universities cannot carry out the actions to identify the debt, while they are being held hostages and too many university professors, threatened by imprisonment, precisely because it was a regulation, which came without attention. I'll explain why. We consulted the relevant bodies in order to solve these problems and the difficulties encountered in applying the current provision and in order to make a clear determination of the incomes to which this should be applied. This is necessary in order to comply with the case-law of the Council of State, but also with the justification for its enforcement. For example, they were included in the provision by SYRIZA of fees, which had participated in LAGs from teaching at the Greek Open University. The Greek Open University is aware that it is a university to which colleagues from all over the country contribute. There was never a provision in the law that a debt should be withheld by the PPE for this teaching. Moreover, there was an explicit provision in the law that revenues from teaching are excluded from other HEIs, public schools, public institutes or the provision of administrative work to the EIU. We're fixing this. Secondly, it is clear that the 7% calculation relates exclusively to income accruing from the business activity through a company or individually related to the cognitive object and science of each debtor. The imposition of 7% on incomes that would be taxed on business activity, for example dividends, dividends from participation in companies that are irrelevant to the science of the IPA member, but which are not related to it would risk being judged unconstitutionally. For example, someone is a shareholder in a family business completely unrelated to the cognitive object and science of the ICP member. It is clear that it was completely unreasonable to retain that figure. Some other cases are regulated, such as in the event that a member of the ICP was engaging in a business for part of the year, he will have to pay those debts, this percentage for the part of the year. I'll close by referring to issues that have been discussed in advance and which concern university doctors. As regards the specific remuneration for clinical work at university clinics, this is not a business activity, but an income from an employee. So that's where the percentage will not be retained. Finally, as far as medical teachers in the afternoon are concerned, this, according to the AIA, is business and will rightly be retained on the basis of the arrangements that we are bringing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Pappas from New Democracy has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Madam President. I am moved by the weakness and sympathy of the Left in the IGC suddenly within Parliament. Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, before I come to the essence of the bill that we are debating and being voted on today, you will allow me to refer to what we have seen unfolding over the last few days in the Aegean Sea. At a time when Turkish reform is at the south, I am proud to be a Member of Parliament elected by the vote of the people of the Dodecanese, the people who live on our remote islands and with high care keep our flag high. They're people I met the past few days during my tour all over the islands. I had the honour of traveling to Rhodes and Kastelorizos with the Minister of Commerce Shipping, Mr. Placiotakis, and with the Minister of Health, Mr. Kikilias in Kos, Patmos and Agathonisi. These are the people I met and who were all with a smile, because they are not afraid and are not worried, because they are proud and confident of the Greek nation, the Armed Forces and the Greek diplomats. Because they know well that Kyriakos Mitsotakis and his Government are doing their job well and decisively. They don't walk. They have confidence in our powers, our alliances and our fairness. They feel confident that the right will be done without the homeland taking a step back, only in front of a weapon fair and legality. These people are represented here, their fairness is defending and it is our duty not to back up a millennium. Even if the Turks do back and call for dialogue, we do not do behind what international legality provides for. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that I have seen with satisfaction the Critical Opposition to deal with this national issue with the proper maturity and seriousness. Far from screaming and farther from logic next time will be otherwise, a phrase that has become loved by many of SYRIZA's colleagues. And I've been wondering for days how else is it going to be? It would be very interesting to explain your plan for the next day, how you imagine it. How else will it be? Will you target your political opponents again with false and constructed accusations, which do not stand even as a science fiction scenario? Are you going to blackmail people to blame your political opponents' wives? Will you break any more lockers of political opponents and members of their families, who have proclaimed persecution and supposed scandals before they even exist? Are you going to try again to organize the circuit that was revealed just better this time? Is that how it's going to be? Will you try to put some prisoners in order to be able to easily control the joints of power? Will you use newspapers and media to put pressure on them to make bigger'magasies' the next time they are 'otherwise'? So let us inform you that nothing will be any other. In democracy, threats have no place, and justice is the refuge of every citizen, where he can find his rightfulness without them, the para-states, the windshields, the curbs and the joints. In our democracy, the powers are independent and the government is doing what it has promised. Until then, however, you will imagine otherwise, Greece has a government, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, which respects the institutions, the separation of powers and the commitments it has made towards the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, the reforms and changes provided for in this draft law are part of achieving the purpose of our Government for a modern and innovative primary and secondary education system. These reforms in private education follow on from the initiatives taken by the Ministry of Education and its leadership in the previous period to upgrade the public school. The main philosophy of the bill is the greater autonomy and freedom to private education, of course, always in order to protect the good of education. We seek with the arrangements of this draft law to reduce state intervention in private education, to strengthen flexibility in the organisation and operation of school units. At the same time, these arrangements will be of direct and significant benefits to students. The training provided will be upgraded through the introduction of an evaluation system for the school unit's educational work, as well as teachers. We have said this tone before, that evaluation is the foundation of merit and progress. It is called progress, gentlemen, on the left, on democracy and excellence. There will also be significant benefits for teachers as long as they have the possibility of concluding contracts for indefinite duration, and two-year contracts for up to now are being abolished, and the opportunity offered for the development and use of private training facilities is also important. In addition to the significant changes planned for private education, however, the draft law of the Ministry of Education introduces other important interventions. Such is the introduction for the first time of the systematic teaching of special courses, which are being examined in the pan-Hellenic examinations in the public schools, and the chronic problem of the equivalence of certificates of study awarded by the Greek high school of Imbros following its operation is resolved. It also provides for the operation of environmental education centres in 2020-2021. Ladies and gentlemen, for the reforms that are being implemented and promoted in public and private education we have no right to fight. We have a duty to disagree and discuss to find the best or best solutions. We invest in the new generations, care for our children and fight for them, because our future, our future, our country's future are our children, because without them there is neither a present nor a future. That is why educational reform requires all of us political responsibility and maturity. No populism and a service of political interests are allowed. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister and Mr Secretaries, on this point, I would like to take note of a subject of historic and vital importance for a small island of the Dodecanese, the heroic island of Kassos. I'm talking about setting up a caravan school on the heroic island of Kasso. This is a vision of the municipality and of the local society and of the Caesian people. The aim is to establish a school for the revival of an ancient art that is slowed down in a place with long maritime tradition. It is a way for young people to stay at their place and the heroic island of Kassos to attract young people who want to learn the art, young people from neighbouring islands, young people from the Aegean Sea, young people and young people from Crete, young people and young people who want to stay home, work, offer and make their families. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA and of the Left I do not have the illusion that you could support by your vote such a liberal bill as this. But do not you too have the illusion that the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis will stop her work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u257	Madam President, I would like to put forward some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u258	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u259	I would just like to make a statement, if you will allow me, Madam President, to make any legislative improvements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u260	Mr Bartzokas has the floor from New Democracy for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Madam President. Before entering the debate on today's bill, which is undoubtedly extremely important, like any legislation on education, I will make a small comment on another issue, which is also very important and topical. We are very often talking about depreciating policy, a trend that is unfortunately recorded internationally, and about removing young people especially from their employment with the public, whether expressed by abstention from the polls, or expressed by their removal from what is related to more general issues relating to public life. It is a sad trend, and I will not go into the matter of mentioning what is described in the various political analyses as a cause, but I consider myself to be an institutional representative of the Greek society to mention the important responsibility that we politicians themselves have in shaping this situation, particularly through the fact that we are using and the quality of the speech we are using when we are participating in the Step of Parliament. We have heard, not only recently but also the previous one, incomprehensible expressions in Parliament's chambers, which not only do not match the parliamentary and political morality that each of us must have, but also afflict Parliament's own democracy. The restoration of the damage that our democracy is suffering because of the depreciation of politics is primarily going through the same ones that we practice politics in a coordinated manner. The immortal political reason is not cheeky. It is primarily self-determination and humiliation of the democratic acquis. As far as the bill is concerned, before we say anything about the special provisions, we have to answer a key question: Who is the Greek school addressing? Who owns it? If we respond to anything different, except that it belongs to the student, then certainly all the disagreements that have been made about the substance and the arrangements that this bill brings make sense. But if we respond that the core of modern school, regardless of whether it is private or public, is the student, then we understand that the conflict over its provisions is pretext. What we have to keep from this initiative is that it receives acceptance from the student and parental community. And that's the most important thing in the end. This is because we have a school-centered bill, just as our educational system should be. Parents and students welcome the arrangements for extending the timetable, for assessing teachers according to additional criteria, for aggregating private schools with other learning structures. They welcome the incorporation of the teaching of special courses considered at a pan-Hellenic level, which have not yet been taught. The reason why this legislative initiative has found acceptance is because the student community in the private schools of primary and secondary education, which is certainly not the majority of the offspring of many families but mostly middle-class children, realises that it works in favour of the learning community. However, the owners of private schools also welcome it. At some point we must stop reproducing the myth that Greek Employers match the exploitation of work. Especially since the Greek company has lifted a great deal of weight on its backs all these years and especially since most owners of private schools are themselves teachers. So we had the opportunity in the drafting dialog to have a very serious discussion about the role of the state in the education section. To speak politically about how far state intervention must go. Whether it is in the interest of the student to regulate the organisation and functioning of private education suffocatingly. Once again, unfortunately, we left the great things behind because we used to be hinted, accusations and objections. So, in view of this, the Qualified Opposition and the Opposition as a whole, that by voting against the bill in plenary, too, does not turn the back on the government. She actually turns her back once again to the student himself and to the Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The reason for Mrs Dunia from New Democracy has been for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u263	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy attaches great importance to education and the creation of a structured modern education system that follows international best practice. Our children are the future of our country and we must provide them with the best means to broaden their horizons, develop their skills to the full and enter with claims on the professional track and society in general. That's right. Our children and the best for them are at the heart of our educational policy and of the bill we are discussing today. The Legislation of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs for the modernisation of private education is a bill that follows the previous legislation on the upgrading of public school and clarifies the needs of modern education. As the parents of many students choose their children to attend private schools, the Ministry's leadership does not close eyes to this reality and chooses to upgrade the education provided to these schools. Ladies and gentlemen, the modernisation of our schools is first and foremost the strengthening of private initiative and the reduction of State intervention in the field of education. Thus, the state shows practically the confidence in private schools by giving them the necessary freedom and autonomy, of course, while exercising the necessary supervision. Private schools will now be assessed according to the criteria for structures, educational work and teachers in public schools. They will have, as they have long been, an internal rules of procedure with control of legality only and not appropriate. They will enjoy greater flexibility in their operation by establishing an extended timetable. Each private school will be able to create a programme similar to its own philosophy. To have a strengthening teaching, to strengthen the language learning of his students and, more generally, to have more choices for the afternoon activities he will offer. He will still be able to add activities outside the working days. There is no doubt that innovation must be encouraged because it releases children's creativity and gives their mind the necessary stimuli. At the same time, it will now be possible to establish and operate municipal schools from foreign schools that follow the Greek compulsory teaching programme, thus covering a significant gap of many years, since in our country they have a constant and successful presence of many foreign training courses, which many students prefer, without being licensed to date. Parents should be free to choose the school they consider best for their children without restrictions. Afterwards, the bill under consideration gives private teachers greater freedom to manage their human resources. There is provision for contracts of indefinite duration for private teachers, courses from specific disciplines, selection of the director and school assistants from the schools themselves, as well as the possibility of replacing managers and assistants in the school year and allowing additional employment of teachers in activities outside school hours. The school, teachers and teachers and all staff employed in it are intended to serve the needs of the students and adapt to the requirements of the time. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important to extend the possibility of transferring students directly from private to public, public or private schools throughout the school year without examinations. This way parents and students who, for some reason, are not happy with the school where their children are in school will be facilitated in a smooth school environment change. At the same time, we should not ignore the importance of the arrangements for making more efficient use of school buildings. All kinds of educational institutions are now being able to build together, and the summer is planned for the development of building facilities. School facilities are designed to meet all children's needs and activities, and that is what we need to do. Finally, with regard to other provisions, I would like to make a brief reference: At the service of school units in which students are blind and deaf priority with teachers with relevant qualifications, as they should. All pupils but in particular disabled pupils should be given the highest possible facilities and the highest level of study in the prevention of the operation of environmental education centres and in the coming school year. In the establishment for the first time in the public schools of the country, the systematic teaching of special courses being examined in the pan-Hellenic exams such as design, music and foreign languages. Thus the candidates and their parents will no longer rely solely on the schools to prepare these courses. Ladies and gentlemen, private education is simplified, self-determination and modernised. It ceases to be bound by its current suffocating and centralised framework of operation and is upgraded with significant benefits for all those involved in education, but above all for the students themselves who form the basis and final recipient of education. Private schools will now provide a better organised school life with more recruits, better and continuously rated teachers and greater flexibility for students and parents. All this is expected to improve the school experience of children to equip them with valuable knowledge and to ensure a better tomorrow. That must also be our only question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, my colleague. The floor now has Mr. Zachariadis from SYRIZA for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u265	Madam President, thank you. I will start with an issue that is not in the material of the bill but I think it is extremely timely and is linked to what we are discussing. Unfortunately, the issue of the coronary pandemic is shown not to be a sprint race. It's not a pigeon. Unfortunately, he's a marathon. In the first steps of this route, our country, Greece, with the responsible attitude of all of us, has done very well. But today, unfortunately, things are different. Lack of plan, experiments onward, regressive behaviour and arrogant behaviour always lead us to steps back. The protection of public health is the first task of every human being. We will still be responsible, not micro-group opposition, but we need a plan, responsibility and seriousness from everyone. The whole society last spring made a huge effort. We stayed at home to be healthy to us, our families, our friends, the people we love, the whole society. We've come home to give the right time to the coordinate state to organize, adjust. And, of course, this also applies to the issues of this ministry. Organized? Changed? Is it adjusted? Unfortunately, no. In neighbouring Italy, which experienced the first phase in a particularly painful way, schools with fifteen students will be in each class. In the United States of Trump with twelve. In Greece what exactly do you think will happen, Minister? What expenditure does Greece prepare to deal with the health crisis and its relationship with education? Are you preparing some recruitments, some infrastructure? Is there a plan we don't know about? There is some cooperation, some action plan with local government, which is better aware of the issues, how many rooms exist in each school unit, what about toilets and cleanliness, the yards? Are we finally going to discuss seriously how the cost of the necessary logistical infrastructure and electronic equipment, with laptops and tablet for all students will be covered? For all students, no matter what. Rich, medium-sized, poor, private or public schools in the city or village must have access to knowledge and teaching. This today, but I would say more widely in the era of the digital revolution, passes through the computers. To end the ring with the deputies and to be all in place on 1 September and not on 1 December or 1 February, as we have seen in the past. Thus, such a plan ensures and foundations for the Catholic, the public free quality of education, in times of health, but also for the economic crisis. Now, regarding the bill, for the New Democracy, normality is to always do the favor to employers, denounce and abolish labour rights and educational freedoms. Is there a large private school in the same category with a big business, whether this is a bank or a commercial store or a productive business? You are bringing unnecessarily redundant redundancies, transfer labour rights surveillance from education to work. Where are we going? Are you listening to the people, part of whom they supported you a year ago, and today they're criticizing you? What do the owners of foreign language centres say, for example, about hovering with private schools? They say you lead to an extinction of a branch. You who were in favour of support for the middle ages, close the middle-aged and small, those who are active and give life to the neighborhood. They say something else, though, more important. What you're lying about when you claim you've been calling it election. They claim that you were electorally telling them others. Shall we go to this story with the 3 euro paradox that leaves more than two thousand teachers out of the process? Is that an ultimate state? Isn't that the depository of bureaucracy? Isn't it the deposit of a state that troubles the citizen? Solve it, it's too simple. I don't know if you or Mr. Theodorikos will solve it. In any case, it must be sorted out, because you are punishing these people. Mr Lebanese earlier in his position told us that he was progressive and liberal. I was really prepared to applaud him to replace Mr. Ploris who is now in the Chamber, Mr. Vorides who is not, Mr. Georgiadis, who really is liberal and progressive and would certainly applaud them. But I want you to listen not to what we say, but to what the IAEA says about this bill. Here's what the AACC says. It says that the removal of the supervision of private education from the Ministry of Education undermines labour peace and justice. The AACC says so. The stability in the industrial relations between private teachers is inextricably linked to the quality of the services provided and to the protection of the public interest. The AACC says so. Education is a fundamental social asset, regardless of the operating status, public or private, of the structure that provides it. And the IAEA continues: The private school is primarily a school and the teacher due to the specificity of his profession cannot be considered as a worker - elastic. Another necessary assessment in the private and public sectors and other employers' arbitrariness, its work and injurious redundancies, extortional cuts or even retaliations. That's not what SYRIZA says. And a final report to close. It really wants courage and not courage from you, Mrs Kerameus, and from Mr Lebanese to talk to the New Democracy about transparent and transparent resources during the election period. You talk, where your party is bankrupt and owes hundreds of millions of euros. It really wants courage and not courage you who gave by direct delegation the financing of the media in the Krone period with the famous list of Pechas in a company that took part in the election campaign in New Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Ploris has the floor, and then Mr Spanakis from New Democracy immediately thereafter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Madam President. The bills are very interesting when they have an ideological sign. And today I will speak as a member of the New Democracy Parliamentary, but I will also speak in another capacity, of the father who has his two children at a private school. And in that sense, I will say things that would certainly have been agreed with Mr Tsipras, like many other left-wing MEPs, who, while using private education services, are ashamed to say so. Because that's our difference, gentlemen. We also believe in private education and private health, you use these services and you come here and slander. Who are you slandering? You are basically slandering parents who send their children to private schools. When we hear from this Step, you say that you want private schools, so that the child can be educated outside the real world, who are you insulting? You insult parents who send their children to private schools and you will certainly not teach them how to discipline their children. The days of the pediatrics have passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u268	I didn't hear you, Mr. Pleari.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u269	I'm talking about pediatrics, I'm talking about paedophilia seasons. It's gone, that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u270	Shame on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u271	Mr. Philly, I will come to you and say in particular what you have done. Because you did what you did was hate not private schools, it was hatred towards parents who send their children to private schools. And who are these parents? Because anyone who listens to us in this Chamber thinks that to send the child to the private school you are a 2%, 3% that is in another economic dimension. You're wrong. They are parents fighting and who want their child to be in a private school, believing there will have a few more opportunities. They're parents with middle-income, because there's all classes private schools, who dream of being deprived of something so their child can be there. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] And what did you do with your own bills? You punished these parents. You've cut off activities. I saw it last year and last year, my child can't have activities, because Mr. Friends wanted to have a bill that finally punished the parent and told you the school "we want to do activities that aren't at the expense of these activities," but no. There they were to be punished as having and possessing. What are these people doing? They use private education, they pay for public free education, they give money from their schools taxes - the Minister told you that it is a huge amount that is estimated to win the Greek state, because some send their children to private schools - and even books pay them. That, to tell you, I never understood. Pay for public free education and because you choose your child to be in private school, alleviating the public system, which would want a lot more schools to cover all these children, you'll be punished there too. So these are the perceptions and they are a profoundly ideological conception. You come here and you read us texts from other times. We have a real world. From private health Greece lost, do you believe? The fact that we currently have five, six private clinics that are equal or possibly better in some areas with large hospitals, loses or wins the citizen? From the private schools did he lose? Do they lose the kids who go to private schools? On the contrary, empty positions are left to the public system, which needs to be developed and it is a discussion that is held and at the same time there are very good schools that give the Greek university the opportunity and possibly foreign language directions, which enables children to go to study in foreign countries either in America or in Germany or in England. In this context, then, the Minister comes here and in all the direction he tells you, it gives the opportunity to make self-evident things, where self-evident things are not business, it is a school, and they are good schools, and they also provide good education for children. And because the parent wants to send his child over there, so he doesn't find him after an ambitious SYRIZA leader who wants to have eight months in custody of the school is an option. The choice of my parents was to be in public school and it was a right choice. Why does this whole thing have to be seen competitively? And why in the end you should punish the choice of father and mother who say they want their child to be in private school. Incidentally but clearly in your positions here you were prepared to say that you would like to abolish private schools if you could do so, as could the abolition of private health. And here we come from where we started. So if you believe in them, make them a model in your lifestyle, where you send your children. Because when you send your child to a private school and come here and talk about business, you insult yourself. And where do you go if you get a health problem? Because the Left is often good in theory. But when the act comes, then in practice it just does what the whole normal world does, but it's ashamed to say, sticking to its ideas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u272	Mr Vassilis Spanakis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is through twenty-five articles that the Ministry of Education comes today to make its own cut, not only in private education, but also in other matters for which, unfortunately, nothing has been heard in this Chamber. Because in this bill, from Article 14 onwards, there are important provisions on which we have not heard anything at all. Provisions for systematic and supportive teaching in the public schools of the country of special courses examined in the pan-Hellenic exams, for issues of homogenous schools in Constantinople and the Greek high school of Imbros, for the register of attendance by teachers and advisors of second-time schools and many other provisions you probably do not want to mention, you did not read them because these are positive provisions for education. We now go to the first thirteen articles on private education provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a developed state, is there a European state without developed private education? Is there a training structure without evaluation? Does anyone disagree that building facilities can be used beyond school hours? We must finally decide: do we want or do we not want to see the Greek economy developed? Because with these provisions on private education we are strengthening the employment of teachers, we are better organising private schools, we are imposing rules of procedure for every private school under the approval of the training director. Who disagrees with the abolition of the two-year employment contracts and the compulsory employment of teachers with contracts of a temporary nature so that teachers in the private sector can enjoy full working rights equivalent to their public colleagues? What's bothering you in evaluation? Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to speak in this Chamber not only as a member of the Greek Parliament, but also as a child of teachers who have had for many decades a whole, private training centre, especially in the 1960s and 1970s. In these decades, until the 1980s, private education has been blossoming in the country and in people's regions and districts. My parents had a private training course at the Ano Korydallos, in Schistos Korydallos. The worker’s child could go to private school with pride. The lotus was traveling and sending his child to the private school because he wanted to learn letters. Is training on the left or right, Mr. Phil? Private education has been an integral part of the Greek state since 1827, where the principle of freedom of private education has been established, while the Decrees of 1836-1837 have also provided for the establishment of a university, an issue that we have not yet managed to resolve. In 1836 the first private initiative was recorded by the establishment of the educational company and in 1843 was founded in Varvakeio. The history of private education has excellent schools. Should I say about the School that operates since 1838 and has been honored by the Athens Academy for its pedagogical offer? Qualified graduates: Archbishop Christodoulos, Kostis Stefanopoulou, Vangelis Papathanasiou, Nikos Hadjikyriakos Gikas, many colleagues and others. The Evangelical School, just below, in Nea Smyrna, was one of the oldest schools in the Greek area founded in mid-1700 in Smyrna and was re-established in 1934. It ceased to work with the Asia Minor disaster and was transferred to Nea Smyrna. But from the first legislations up to now private education in our country is characterised by high state intervention, while another key feature is the absence of any state financial aid, which is not happening in any other country of Europe. With the bill that the New Democracy brings today, we are finally creating flexibility and autonomy in the organisation and operation of private schools. We provide many possibilities: To regulate the course and provide additional educational services beyond the Ministry's schedule. We give additional employment opportunities to teachers. Let us not ignore the contribution of private education to reducing the unemployment of all levels of education and skills. I would like to talk about the amendments which solve many issues for the transfer of pupils, the clearance of wages for seconded teachers abroad, problems of schools' staffing, the costs of the HEIs for their participation in Union programmes from the Ministry of Education's Public Investment Programme, arrangements for young and temporary primary and secondary school directors. Tell us what have you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, four and a half years of what have you done to get our children to the public schools? What more did you do when you themselves send your children to private? Shouldn't you finally cut hypocrisy in this Chamber? Finally you are in complete ideological confusion. You want private schools for your children, but not for the children of your voters. That's the truth, because you created insecurity to parents, leading them to send their children to private. You tried to destroy quality public education with your ideological obsessions against excellence and in favour of modesty, downgrading standards and experimental public schools. A few weeks ago the political leadership of the Ministry of Education brought about a bill that became a state law on standards and experimental public schools and you voted against it and now you come here to vote against this bill too. Finally, what do you want? Do you want to or do you not want education? Fortunately, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, loyal to his commitments, one of the first things he has taken care of was the reintroduction and upgrading of the role of model and experimental public schools. Mr President, I am reading an article of 'KATHMERINA' 2019, which says that in 2017-2018 the number of students in private schools increased by 3.2%. Do you know why? It is attributed to the abolition of pilot and experimental schools in 2015 and to their downgrading image that followed in the years ahead. This is for the Minutes, with specific numbers. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis - Peter Spanakis, presents for the minutes this article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Kerameou and Mrs Zacharakis, since I congratulate you on this bill, let me say that there could be other radical provisions in this bill that education needs and which the economy needs. Today it is absurd for there to be evidence of tuition fees in private medium education in 2020. We need to dismantle the evidence. Finally, we must go to economic growth. We could also introduce tax incentives because we want more teachers to work. We want more jobs so that we can send our children and have the choice to go to public or private school. In conclusion, I want to tell you that I'm done with public school, and I feel very proud that I'm done with public school, and we have no right to lower the quality of education either in public or in private schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u274	The Member of the New Republic, Mr Yiannis Andrianos, is called in Stepma. Mrs Zacharakis will be speaking after the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today another bill highlighting the radical qualitative difference of this government, the Government of New Democracy with the previous SYRIZA Government, both in terms of the critical field of education, as well as in terms of the basic principles and philosophy that must govern the regulatory and regulatory framework in our country. It is a bill that aims to significantly simplify the operating framework of private schools by abolishing obsolete, counterproductive and often ideological forecasts, a bill aimed at greater autonomy and flexibility in the organisation and implementation of the educational act, more efficient management of human resources and the use of schools' building facilities. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the title of this bill, the contents are not only about private education. It concerns each Greek family with schoolchildren, whether they study in private or public schools. This is because strengthening the quality, exchange and creativity have a positive effect on education as a whole. Instead, imposing the uniformity and logic of the minor effort, banning evaluation and creative impetus, irrational and often insurmountable obstacles to teachers who want to take the step above and in schools, public and private, who want to respond better to the needs and wishes of children and teachers, all of this undermines, not only the quality of education, but also the prospects of our entire society. Ladies and gentlemen, in contrast to the previous government, we believe in education policy to encourage and reward the quality and excellence of the educational units as much as possible. We, unlike the previous government, believe in strengthening the school choice so that each Greek family can finally choose from a wide range of choices the public or private school best suited to its needs and preferences. Besides, who in this Chamber can logically argue that the irrational restriction that has prevented private schools from offering additional educational services to date, but also to make use of the building facilities for more general educational purposes, of course, out of working hours, and of course with an additional fee for teachers, should be maintained in this House? Who can support the limitations that the members, partners, shareholders of a private school, if they are educators, have been attending the meetings of the school club, but also the restrictions that private schools have so far prevented from facing the problem of strategic debtors, which not only affected the schools and the other families of the pupils, but also significantly impaired the possibility of providing grants to children from families with a real economic need? And to put the finger on the type of sunshine, who can logically support the restrictions that have so far prevented teachers and administrations from voluntarily agreeing on the terms of their cooperation and serving as they better know the needs of children? This bill therefore responds to all these absurd obstacles, disguises the needs of families and schools and creates a modern, fair and effective framework of operation. But as far as public education is concerned, I would particularly like to stress the introduction of the systematic teaching of special courses which are being studied in the pan-ellad examinations, the operation of environmental education centres, the strengthening of the staffing of school units in which blind students are studying. I hope at least, ladies and gentlemen, that this article, you will vote on it. Ladies and gentlemen, it is fundamentally wrong to see that me by accumulating regulatory obstacles to the functioning of private schools, equality between children from families with different economic potential is greatly enhanced. All that that makes sense is to increase the disparities between family children with low and middle incomes on the one hand and family children with very high incomes on the other, which - let us not fool ourselves - will in another way find how to ensure quality education for their children. The solution, therefore, to the present problem of inequalities, is not equalisation, on the contrary, is to encourage speech with reasonable rewards for creative efforts and excellence, that is, logically, with fair evaluation at their heart. The solution is to strengthen school choice so that families reward schools that meet their needs and expectations and send a strong improvement message to schools that do not do so. The solution is to ensure the material, institutional and moral conditions for schools, public and private, to carry out their tasks without doubt. The solution is to encourage scholarships and any kind of tool that will allow all children with special talents to follow the path of education, preparation, creative contribution to society as a whole with the best prospects. In this direction, therefore, this draft law represents an essential step, a step that meets the needs of the country and society, the demands, the dreams and expectations of children and young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u276	Thank you too for keeping time. Please beg the Deputy Minister, Mr Sophia Zacharakis, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u277	Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, just a month ago, the Minister's draft law was passed here in the Greek Parliament on the essential upgrading and modernisation of the public school, from kindergarten to high school. You mentioned it before, Minister. I would like to say to you that it is very important and it is not a swimming pool of Siloam, as was heard by Mr Amanatidis, to legislate on what was ultimately in the New Democracy programme. The implementation procedures, which you voted on, ladies and gentlemen, have already been in progress this month so that we can implement what we promised the Greek people at the beginning of the school year. Who was that? The standards and experimental schools after the examinations and the draw that has already been carried out. At the same time we are implementing the definition of experimental, pilot schools where children will be taught English. The children of kindergarten will be trained in a playful way and at the same time we will have teaching acts, actions for new skills. It was not obvious that they could be implemented and yet acted from the beginning of the new school year, and I have always been concerned about the special circumstances that we should take into account in any case in order to get our teachers and children back to school safe. So in response to fair and well-meaning, I imagine, anguish and concern for the new school year, we say that yes, taking into account all the guidance of specialist scientists, we will allow schools to function in the best possible way, such as Minister, you have already assured the Greek people too many times, and the return of teachers and children safely to the Greek school. So we are here to continue this work which we started with the previous bill, talking about the provision of quality and modern education, which will provide every new and every new facility necessary to enable these children to meet the challenges of modern times. This effort, as it goes without saying, can only be about private schools, and it is also reasonable, but also constitutionally, that, in a democratic society, the state is responsible for the education provided to the citizens as a whole, whether they choose the primary school, the public school of the neighborhood or a private training centre. The specific nature of this draft law is also identified here, but also the notified difference in relation to the former regime and therefore our opposing view and view of the issues of education and education of the children of this country, our country. So what's the warning difference? Our deep faith and commitment to defending and protecting every citizen's fundamental right to free choice and free development of his or her personality, as enshrined in our Constitution, which clearly has limits and at the same time is accompanied by specific obligations. Because, unlike our predecessors, we sincerely believe in the importance of the private initiative for society as a whole. We don't fear her, we don't fight her stuck in ideas or other outdated perceptions. On the contrary, we consider it necessary to achieve wider social well-being, progress and development in our country. That is precisely the spirit of the bill which is being voted on today, this new balanced breath that we are trying to give to the area of private education. It is worth stressing that the beneficiaries and ultimately benefiting from these reforms, which concern private education, and through which private initiative is being strengthened, are not allegedly - as has been heard by some here in Parliament and in the Commission - an elite of individual private interests, but the whole of our society, whether they have opted for the education of their children in the private sector or - and also - through special provisions that come in this bill - in the public sector. We want the creation or development of a quality innovatory private training centre, but with the intensity and the warmth, with which we are mainly interested, I must tell you, for the functioning of the public school, in response to questions raised earlier. We want to cultivate and build an environment of healthy competition, with conditions of effective supervision, which will create incentives for improvement and a lasting path upwards for all schools, contrary to the logic of the downward equation that we have unfortunately experienced in Greece. A modern democratic state must strengthen it by laying down the framework within which this supervision is exercised. In other words, the role of the state in a modern democracy must be effective rather than interference in matters relating to the exercise of fundamental freedoms of its citizens, such as the business, but also the choice between public and private education. This is the direction of the bill today, in which we liberate and decapitate private schools from counterproductive and inefficient state intervention, from excessive bureaucracy. We provide flexibility and autonomy to school units. From what? From a framework of suffocating state intervention and grunting that is ultimately a harmful process and going through a stage of effective supervision and at the same time encouraging and developing fertile private activity. We simplify bureaucratic procedures and continue the supervision of the Ministry of Education on matters relating to private schools. What are these matters? Authorisation, maintenance of education legislation, qualification and appointment of director and Vice-President, notification of additional actions, approval of rules of procedure, supervision of qualifications. Monitoring of education legislation and qualifications remains as before. The exchange rate of private schools is unnegotiable and is a key concern for our policies. This draft law focuses primarily on the needs of the students themselves, the interest of which must by definition be a primary concern for the education process and therefore also for the Ministry. The timetable is now being formulated so that it best meets the needs of the pupils. We broaden their choices to participate in additional activities carried out within their schools. Similarly, these arrangements, by assessing and exploiting the educational potential, aim at guaranteeing the provision of high-quality work by people who are trained, suitable and to whom employment incentives are provided in the subject of specialization. The school is encouraged to take enrichment initiatives, as well as streamlining the programme and ultimately to ensure the highest quality of the education provided as a whole. We believe in healthy competition and we also believe in a dynamic public school, which can still get best practices through those carried out through a private school. I stand on the issues of teachers' industrial relations, due to a personal sensitivity and experience I have through private school, because we may be describing things, but we may have lived through them. It has been heard on several occasions that we are abandoning workers, leaving them to the disposal of bad employers and some other comments. Of course, the comments from members of the Officerial Representation, who have even nursed as members of the government, during which the work was attacked very much, are of special interest. Unemployment and job creation questions were daily on the agenda of political and public dialogue. So, if nothing else, it proved to be a great deal that overstatement and arbitrary state intervention policies are not only ultimately protecting workers' rights, but are likely to lead to an unfavourable position. I will talk to you about what has happened in practice - what we have experienced - in private education lately over the last two years. Finally, instead of protecting, it has led to increased and greater imbalance between the relationship between workers and employers. The phenomenon of non-drafting contracts has been observed indefinitely and the employment relationship ends over the two years. Why? Because they were afraid in private schools of being caught in the choice of a teacher for an indefinite relationship and contract. These distortions are taking place. We are reintroducing and ensuring the self-evident freedom of citizens to draw up free contracts, to regulate freely, equally and autonomously the contents of relations between them. Is that going to be for the benefit of teachers? We believe that yes, it will be for the benefit of the teachers, who are all but left to their fate, the slaves of the so-called bad employer. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] And here, of course, it is also a very important task for the private sector and the school to comply with the legislation, as well as with the compulsory working hours, but also with the additional activities, which will also be subject to strict supervision. Supervision of industrial relations is not prevented. It shall be reshaped and confirmed in particular by maintaining the appointment, salary check, working hours check, staff and disciplinary matters within the competence of the Boards of Directors. The supervision of a modern state is substantially upgraded as it is united with all private teachers. It is even more essential after the removal of ideals and anachronistic strangles. I will leave the private education section, in order to shorten, Mr President, although I have not used more time so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u278	As soon as you can, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr President. The bill contains provisions relating to public education and are particularly important, Madam Minister, the initiative you have taken to introduce the special courses of the pan-Hellenic examinations, which will be taught for the first time, and this is particularly important. I think we should all approve this initiative by a positive vote. Because, wherever the child is, who has so far had no choice of teaching this lesson that we asked him to teach as a special lesson, now can, within a group of schools, teach these special lessons. I think, Minister, this is a very important initiative. The public school ensures and prepares its own students for their participation in any course which may be considered in order to enter the school of their choice. And because it has been mentioned earlier on the issue of SCMs - I would like Mr Famellos to be here - to answer that we have been prolonging the operation of SCMs for a year, because all the smooth transition to the next step must be completed, yes, in terms of sustainability and sustainability objectives, which have already been set internationally and at European level. Certainly the best way is not to legislate and not to have created the proper conditions for implementing this legislation, speaking about CRLs. And most likely, because you are not all required to be informed about this, we have found a situation from SYRIZA that the Environmental Education Centres are converted into CRLs, Sustainable Education Centres, but not all of them have been prepared so that they can function effectively and in a centralised way anyway. So what do we do? We're prolonging the operation. We can serve them. We will begin the operation of new RCFs across Greece and immediately thereafter, with the law that will come from the Ministry for Structures, we will be able to go to the next day, on a day that will obviously include the objective of sustainability through the Environmental Education Centres. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with all these regulations which are a natural follow-up to all those that have been made at the Ministry all this time and are fully in line with the latest law on the modernisation of the public school, we are trying to bring the necessary corrective intervention in the field of private education as well. With a sense of responsibility and consistent with the Constitution and its requirements, we care in the same way for the quality upgrade of education as a whole, public and private, away from fearful contexts and other anachronistic perceptions. Consistent with our commitments and our political identity, we strengthen and encourage the private autonomy that is exercised within a demarcated environment and thus produces many benefits for the whole of society, upgrades and strengthens our state. We are talking about our children, about the future citizens of this country, this generation that should be as best equipped to cope with the newly unprecedented crises and unprecedented challenges of the 20th first century, of a century of major changes, of rapid global changes that holds for all our lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u280	There's been a change of Mr. Couridis and Mr. Kouvella. Mr. Kouvellas will be speaking now, and then Mr. Harris Castanides will be speaking. Mr. Kouvela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill we are debating is a real intersection, a real reform, this time in the field of private education. You deserve warm congratulations, ladies Ministers, Mr. Minister, because within a year you have already given written samples and made laws all our programmed announcements, those for which the Greek people gave a clear mandate to the Government of Mr.Mitsotakis, when they shouted in their vote "change the mess in our education". They asked us to transform the school into a knowledge centre and hand over our universities where they really belong, i.e. to their teachers and students and not to the various "blacks" who had taken over the Higher Education Institutions in recent years. Why is today an important reform of the Ministry of Education's bill? Firstly, because it contributes to changing the landscape of private education, it transforms it, strengthening the important role of teachers in the area and of course, as was mentioned by the majority of the bodies in the Commission, but also by our fellow citizens who took part in the public consultation, it is coming to correct many anachronistic and ideological diseases of the past for the benefit of our students in particular, as well as the teachers in general and private education in the end. Why should we not miss out, ladies and gentlemen, that the ideal system for progress in education is the one that puts the student at the centre of every initiative, any change, that is, the system that moves around the good of school generations. And if we want, of course, in practice and not in words to say that our children are the future of this place, then we must move on to important, radical reforms. Of course, no reform can work in practice unless we all change our thinking, our own, our students, teachers, ultimately of society. What is this draft law doing? It comes to complete and complete in many respects the course of interventions related to the upgrading and modernisation of the school in general, public and private schools. All this, following on from a large bill passed just a month ago, concerned the upgrading of the public school from the pyramid base, that is, the kindergarten, up to the higher education level, the university. Our aim in today's draft law is to allow private schools even to be differentiated from public schools, but always in the context of constitutional requirements and provisions. I recall the SYRIZA government's decision to ban evaluation in private schools. I recall the SYRIZA Government's decision to restrict the possibility of additional educational activities in private schools. I would remind you of the decision to strive for violence to permanent private education teachers, in essence, uncontrollably, instead of giving them an incentive to continuously improve them. I still remind you of the unsuccessful, fortunately, attempt by the previous SYRIZA government to impose VAT on private education that would naturally affect parents and would probably reduce all the structure in the air. As a plan, then, you were first leveling and after burdensome burdens were imposed so that no one would choose private education. It was extremely serious that the complaint that made a representative of private schools in the debate of the bill in the committee responsible, saying that Mr. Friend, as a competent minister at the time, had said to him that "we cannot shut you down, we will make you unnecessarily". Finally, have you, everywhere with threats and extortion, ruled your time, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? This bill introduces greater flexibility in the modulation of the extended timeline beyond the mandatory school and the private school can also focus on additional courses by freely selecting specific items. More flexibility is given and it concerns the addition of other activities, including afternoons or weekends. It also introduces arrangements that modernise and improve it, such as the possibility of transferring a private school student to another private school, but also the possibility of not continuing a student in private school, since tuition is not paid for. So it is a real development in the context of rules at all times. So we also have the introduction of evaluation to private educational units, with criteria that also apply to public school. A review that I recall had fought so much by the previous SYRIZA government. You had even issued a circular, reminded you, which was a private school, because he dared to carry out an evaluation of his teachers, as if it were a criminal offence. Eventually, neither in private education nor in private school did you want the evaluation? You have political allergy to both worthy and excellent and capable. And here, of course, we must admit that you are truly consistent, you have this attitude over time. We are still abolishing a system of two-year contracts for teachers who held them in hostage, allowing contracts for indefinite duration so that this relationship can evolve and develop with the teachers and teachers of their choice. The question which I think summarizes today's debate, drawing to the end, is this, ladies and gentlemen. I particularly address those of you, colleagues of SYRIZA, of the former Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, including - you choose to send your children to private schools, and you do very well to do if that is for their own good, in their interest, that is what you are judging. We finally want the teacher to do his job properly, do we want the teacher to respect the students, do we want him to be a real teacher? If anyone's not all of this, do we want him to continue teaching our children at the private school? So the bill comes - and with this I conclude, Mr President - to put an end to all of this, so we can see that things are now evolving in a modern perspective, in a modern direction, in an innovative direction and that opportunity the Ministry took to add the teaching to High School III, which was not taught at all or very little, but the students were being examined in the pan-Hellenic exams in them. Now, then, more hours of teaching are added to the public school upgrade. In conclusion, I would like to convey the anguish of the rulers of Thessaloniki, Minister, who seem not to be ready to meet the needs of children's rooms that are part of compulsory pre-school age, in other words pre-school and infants, due to bureaucratic delays. I am sure you understand this as a problem and you will do your best. I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u282	Mr. Harris Kastanides of the Change Movement is called to Stepma, and then Mr. Stylis will take the floor. Here, Mr. Castanides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u283	Ladies and gentlemen, while listening to the speakers of the New Democracy, I have come to the conclusion that I must beg you: no more educational reforms, no more brave areas, no more important bills, because you are making out the importance of words. The Minister with her successive choices since she has been responsible for the Ministry of Education has continued to surprise us, because her choices are at best betraying a lack of strategy in education planning, in the worst case embarrassment or confusion. To be clearer, how do you deal with a private training company? Is the emphasis on ‘enterprise’ or ‘educational’? If emphasis is on the word 'enterprise', then arrangements for the release of redundancies and the application of labour legislation, as is the case with any other undertaking, can be justified. In this case it would be more consistent, because it would be reasonable for private schools to have their own detailed programmes, such as each undertaking making the calculation of their work, to have their own internal authorities and to end up in an assessment of the educational project provided, in order to find a level playing field between the diplomas, the decommissioning centres, between the private school and the public school unit, a private school unit to belong to the Ministry of Competitiveness and Development. But if the importance we attach to a private school unit is that it is a matter of educational work because it also provides a private body with a public good, then it is justified that the detailed programmes of public school with the private school should be the same and that there should be specific rules not only in supervision, but also in terms of the employment status of workers and private teachers. Then it is justified to continue to accept the submission of private school units to the Ministry of Education. But choose and take. You cannot apply the common labour legislation and at the same time say that 'because it is a public good I hold private school supervision'. You will allow me to tell you that an elephant and self-confidence school chief will never make use of Mrs. Kerameou's predictions, you will not be required. This will be done by people who may have to clear accounts and may have a stronger sense of entrepreneurship. But mindful people won't do it, because they honor their educational staff. They know they're backing the teacher. He's the one who's going to give the child the result. Another could consider using the provisions. It calculates the Ministry of Education that, in order to get rid of a worker or even to have a collective dismissal - because collective redundancies are permitted if the common labour legislation is applied - there must be an assessment beforehand. So what does the Minister of Education say? Near the evaluation criteria - God make them evaluation criteria! - in public education - I had the opportunity a month ago to speak - I add a few more evaluation criteria that the schoolmaster must have in his hands, but without even setting a single line what these new, additional evaluation criteria are! The only thing he added was that these evaluation criteria should be included in the internal rules of operation, that is, the rules of procedure that the schoolmaster himself does for his school. It will therefore reach the evaluation and it will have to be done either for the lack of education or for the general behaviour - I note that they are both heavy categories - to lay off, on the basis of the additional and the other criteria, some or some teachers. Now let me show this with a fantastic story that is happening in a clear time in modern Greece, which is as follows. To figure out what Mrs. Kerameau is doing. A inspired Prime Minister in divisive conditions, divided by Greece, decides to invite three distinguished teachers to a walk, on a walk with him. The three teachers respond, and during the walk the inspired Prime Minister says to them: "My Prime Minister's title will be a deep and substantial educational reform. Can you help'? The three teachers are surprised. They are prestigious people who actually decide to help and think about setting up a company, the education company. They will work in private, they will be directed to a man who will make concrete contributions to the Ministry of Education's bureaucratic and stiff mechanism - which the inspired Prime Minister does not look after very well - in order to pass on these ideas. The first thing they think about is that we need to understand the needs of modern Greece, our children need to understand what modern Greece is and its needs. To do this, we must establish any educational reform in the spoken Roman language, as Velaras said. And they thought that a further step, in the context of the education company, would be to move on to new school manuals and innovative teaching methods, that is, modern teaching methods. They refused any public position that could be granted to them. They have worked systematically and have therefore come to a number of conclusions. However, they were found before a wall. The imaginary schoolmaster in modern Greece, who has other standards of education, other principles, possibly conservative, at his school, understands that this educational staff who worked in the educational company - as they called it - is something dangerous for his beliefs and principles and should probably be based on the additional criteria - which no one calls - to avoid dangerous lovers of other theories and other teaching standards. He's thinking of firing them off. Ladies and gentlemen, please do a transfer to the exact historical context of the fantastic history that I have told you. The inspired Prime Minister is Eleftherios Venizelos. The time is 1916. The training company is Manolis Triantafyllidis, Dimitris Glinos and Alexander Delmuzos. And the dangers they are facing are the dangers of today's teacher judged by the imaginary schoolmaster on the basis of the principles enshrined in his school's rules of procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u284	Mr. George Stylos has the floor from New Democracy, and then he is Mr. Konstantinos Boubas from the Greek Solution. Here, Mr. Style, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u285	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, both in the committee responsible and today in plenary it is clear that two different worlds conflict. On the one hand, the world of Officerial counterpopulation and their perception of education, public school, private school, a concept that responds to an enclosed society, a fear of evolution and the new, permanently indignant and angry, a society with the fist upright, with an educational system under suffocating state control and a private education virtually nonexistent. Let's not fool this is SYRIZA's world. If, as has been said in the committee, private schools would be abolished. And because they could not abolish them by a law and by an article, they tried in practice with their foreign policy to make them as though they did not exist, effectively abolishing degrees of freedom from private education so that it would not be differentiated to anything from public policy, effectively cancelling the parent's constitutional right to choice but also the practical, technical right of the family to be able to support its children, to be able to function, because most parents especially of the middle-class are workers and are workers for many hours. So this world has nothing to do with Greece's confidence, the extroversion, the dynamism, the innovation we want, a Greece as we dream of it in the New Democracy and the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. So all our bills and today's private education bill, which comes as a follow-up to the bill that was passed last month and concerned the upgrading of public school from kindergarten to high school, are moving in this direction. This bill comes to complete and complete this important intervention in primary and secondary education. But let us see some information about the image of education in our country. There is a consolidation and often widening of inequalities. The learning gap, learning gap, is growing. Performance is characterised by internal consolidation, while strong geographical disparities are observed. Multiple research carried out by independent authorities, such as the 2019 Annual Report of the Independent Quality Assurance Authority in primary and secondary education, the European Commission's Education and Training Monitoring Report for 2019 and the results of the 2012, 2015 and 2018 Pisa competition converging all that the major problem is the learning crisis that negatively affects the development of human capital in Greece. In particular, the performance of pupils in Greece was well below the performance of other countries. And indeed 2018 is in a fall compared to the 2014 Pisa results. I do not know whether this should concern SYRIZA's fellow Members or even make self-criticism about their policy. So where do all these measurements end up? The perfect ones are falling, while the weak are growing. This results in almost all of the studies. One more thing: In 2018 only 6.2% of Greek students achieved a very high performance on a cognitive subject. The corresponding performance in 2015 was 6.8%. Let our SYRIZA colleagues assess this. For Portugal, this figure is 15.2% and for Estonia 22.5%. Ladies and gentlemen, the majority of us, the New Democracy, are facing private education in Greece as an important and distinct pillar of education. How many students attending private schools, primary, high school and high school? Somewhere between 80,000 to 85,000. How many students are in public school? Over 1,100,000,000 or 1,200,000, depending on the year we are and on the demographic data available at the juncture. So we're not talking about a large number of students. But we're talking about a distinct number of students. Another element: In 2017-2018 an increase of students in private schools and high schools was observed. It was 3.2% increase in high school and 2.9% close to 3% in high school. Do you remember who ruled in 2017-2018 and when? We all remember very well. Why is this increase due? It is because the standards and experimental schools, which were public, were abolished, did not pay tuition fees. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. However, the ideology of those in power since 2015 has led to the increase of students in private schools at the expense of models and experimental schools. I will not go into specific provisions of our bill, because both our rapporteur and the Minister and during the debate in committee and during the debate in plenary today mentioned in detail and very clear and substantiated our positions and views on the bill. With three words, we believe that the bill supports the school, supports the private school, supports the students who go to these schools, gives benefits to teachers working in private schools and enables them to work and work more. Why did I refer to all this in my speech? I referred to the fact that today we are in 2020. Many educational reforms have taken place. A lot of money has been given from the country, from the public corps, to build the public education system. So what do we want? We want a quality training for all students. We want a reduction in the learning gap. And we believe that the speech, the competition will also help the public school, it will also enable the students who go to private school. We have a vision and we have a goal: Greece is converging with the UN target for education for 2030, which is Objective 4 for quality education. For all these reasons, we support and vote for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u286	Mr. Boobas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a successful educational reform from the individual government that makes the least mistakes. Education reform in Greece is a destiny. The governments of the last thirty years are responsible for the child, tomorrow's academic citizen as an active cell, where it is not only for him. Is the surroundings completely different today? The people in the conversation with a saying that if you don't marry and if you don't study a child you won't see anything. This is a pragmatic free education, where today the third high school is just an optional one to put you in and if you infiltrate me. He's lost his character in high school as a character that he wants to give general knowledge. A successful system, as the great philosophers say, is not what children will learn what to think, but how to think. So, at the moment, we have reached a seeming tranquility that the Latins would say, this calma apparente, as far as educational reform is concerned. There are claws on the ideological cruising that come to the parliament either from the left or from the right wing. There are things that will happen. However, it is essential that we go to an upgrading of both the public and private sectors in education. Don't scare us from saying private, because they're the kids of the backyards. The burning of the Greek is sacred. It is called upon to pay a great deal of expenses to schools that touch up to three and four thousand euros a year to put the child in a university school with an uncertain future in the labour market, as it is. On the other hand, at this time when Parliament's left ideological rally, the left listens to privatization criteria. On the other hand, the Right Wing when he hears of industrial relations and how labour rights are at stake and abused is caught by a political prudence. Ladies and gentlemen, I am setting examples of this to show that the whole situation is epidermal. If we learn children to fish only for foams that have both O3 and valuable vitamins, the wealth and magic of education is on the bottom. You have to infiltrate more. Today, therefore, the Greeks are invited to pay too much to study their child in terms of rent. In a Greek city, rents are expensive. Trust me. Under no circumstances should education be degraded. The right term is a Ministry of Education rather than education. I have said that in my speech, once reading a psychoanalyst, who had said that education is all that remains when everything else we have been taught will be forgotten. So what's going on here? As far as labour relations are concerned, the government is not being cut and is talking about contracts of indefinite duration. Undetermined time is nothing. I have signed contracts of indefinite duration and two-year contracts, and they really do not guarantee either one or the other employment rights, because the teacher is the victim of labour legislation, whether flexible or labour legislation that is blind to labour rights. A contract of indefinite duration means dismissal of a complaint. I'll go to the other side of the coin, the so-called master. Because both sides are right. You are entitled to a month's compensation for every year's work, i.e. in five years you will receive five months from an indefinite contract, to a legal person under private law. Therefore, let us not say that unconditional workers' contracts guarantee employment rights. It's seemingly and epidermal. On the other hand, two years means stress if your contract is renewed in private. We should go in private. When you have a working legislation that doesn't stand out, and you can't separate it, it means that he's going to be chased by taxes, the IKA, the job inspection, he's going to be chased by the solicitor, and the man will not be able to pay his own teachers, because the parents who have lost their jobs will not pay their tuition fees on time. To be realistic, what's going on here? We have, to the contrary, as representatives of the people a mirror, and we have a narcissism. Education is said by the great philosophers and especially, education must turn them into windows. We don't have windows right now. The image of the market is quite different. So both sides have the right and the wrong thing to do. On the other hand, of course, attention needs to be paid to how the building facilities are to be used. We can't convert training courses to Airbnb or to other hotel facilities. If we go to the summer race for these activities, he wants attention. Because the instructor to show the good person and to renew the contract or if it is unnecessarily not to be fired, he will go many and many unwindled. So how can we support the extra reward and how can it be ensured? On the other hand, summer is a privilege for children. After all, the word "school" is Greek and means debate. It means what the Latins had later taken, because only during the free time could they discuss. That's where the word school is. He wants his rest. So don't turn the child into an instrument of persuasiveness or - if you want - a simply qualified citizen tomorrow who won't finally love school. Many times, the Chinese say that one thing if I tell you, you'll forget it. If I show it to you, you might remember. But if you experience it, you'll never forget it. The school is experiences. They're company. It's the smell of school. What do we have to remember today? We remember the experiments with the professor, the hard tests, the toys, the excursions, the chess store sometimes. So all this composes an image, with the sole difference that school prepares you for a world that does not exist. Because in a class, you're going to run a test. Instead, the great philosophers say that in life you give the test first, and then life leads you to what lesson you will follow. So he wants attention. It is undeniable that we should go to the upgrading of private education without losing public character. Above all, however, we should support these children. The pan-Hellenic system is certainly a sound system. But it only works as an optional person and nothing more. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that there is a saying of the great Diogene that we have said: "Student education among young people of soundness..." young people must have soundness, "they must be a mourning of wealth" to be wealth for the poor, "they are rich worlds" to be a jeweler. Or what Isocrates said: "Education is happy with people, and misfortune for refuge". For unfortunate people, education must be a refuge. For the rich it must be jewelry. So we have to get them together. In closing as a Greek solution, I would like to go to another issue, as a few hours ago, Spain's Minister for Foreign Affairs, Aranca Gonzaleth Laya told Cavusoglu that it was a good thing that Turkey wants to rest a month, because this shows a way of trust between Turkey and Europe. We've become teleshow, please, national issues. So, what does Turkey say? He says we're going to take a commercial break, and we're going on after a month? We call on the Greek Government not to fall into the trap, because Turkey has opened up many fronts with Armenia and Libya, which may well turn against Russian interests. So what's he doing? It takes time not to open a third front with Greece and will be back in due course. If that's possible! We must be snuck and suspicious in our national issues about what Turkey is cooking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u288	Mr. Khiridis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with a slight interference with what the previous guy said, finishing up. I think that the Greek Government's immediate and decisive reaction last week led Turkey to find a wall and a Greek and European, thanks to our mobilisation and to de-escalation. Of course nothing is over. It's a marathon. No one can be reassured, but there is no need for a prudence and defeat in dealing with it. Greece, determined and ready, united within and with international alliances abroad, can and face any dispute from wherever it comes, in particular, from the turmoil, a bourgeoisie Turkey. I'm coming to the bill now. I think it is clear what we have in front of us: a liberal reform, as we have made an election commitment in our programme statements, which also releases private education in part from the prison bonds of who, and where, can he teach. And in that sense I would like to congratulate the Ministry of Education's political leadership on this initiative following previous reform initiatives. I am outraged by the way in which many face the private initiative, because, among other things, they show how unscrupulous they are. In this Chamber, the sanctity of Parliament's plenary session, I would like to remind you that Greek education has historically brought the national regeneration and has caused the Greek Revolution of 1921 that we are celebrating next year. Greek educationers were private, merchants and bourgeois in the pre-revolutionary period. Private initiative was the schools filled by the Greek world of the period and caused the Greek enlightenment and the national rebirth, with a leading event in the Revolution. And of course it was private ones who came then and betrayed our educational institutions, such as Metsovio. I personally happen to be lucky and serve for years in Panteion, which bears the name of the donor, thanks to which this model university social science institution was created in our country. I do not really understand hate and targeting the private initiative in education, which, among other things, is as I have explained deeply unscrupulously. Forty-five years now, I have been working on education with various qualities, either as a student, or as a teacher, and have had the chance to nurse both at public and private school in basic and middle education at the Greek public university and at the good non-state, non-profit American university, and then from administrative posts here in Greece and abroad. I know very well how quickly things change in education, how quickly others run in this area and how retarded the Greek public debate is often anchored and anchored in the beliefs and stereotypes of the 1970s and the 1980s, which has nothing to do with the needs and demands of the 21st century. In addition to this, however, much has been discussed in today's debate and also in the previous committee, I think that, in addition to the conflict that has been described earlier by our colleague between the world of freedom and statism, free initiative and self-energy and the statistic institutions, there is a more fundamental conflict that is reflected in the debate we have had here today: the conflict of honesty and hypocrisy. I think that hypocrisy and pharisaism have left over especially on the burning issue of education, and I can explain: I heard the cords against evaluation and even from people who had in the past supported the evaluation. I address the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. In the period 2009-2012, the government of Papandreou with the law of Diamantopoulou, not only in higher education, overall at all levels of education, attempted to carry an assessment. I don't understand how eight years later this all goes on a walk and it's not all right all of a sudden. I also address the beloved and respected former Minister of Education of SYRIZA. We're regulating the deaf to swallow the camel? Are we talking about the over-regulation of the timetable that we will be teaching at private schools while allowing Greeks, Greek parents' children to attend a full foreign programme in detail, defined by the Ministry of Education in France, Britain and Germany? Do we mind if we do an hour longer in a private training course, but do we not mind our children learning Greek as a foreign language, following the norths of Britain and France? Mercy to that hypocrisy! And I really say this as a new Member to see how it is possible for us to get rid of the rigour and, at the same time, to swallow vaguely into basic and middle-educational education our children are following completely foreign curriculum programmes, while at the same time at the university we do not allow for any private initiative. In other words, in compulsory education, which is the main concern of the state, we allow everything to be found in the university aftermath, we do not allow anything. Excuse me, but this third observer if he sees it, is at least hypocritical not to say anything worse. And of course I don't say it because I have something against these initiatives, but to demonstrate exactly - which are very good schools and do a very good job and a good job to parents who want the best for their children - the hypocrisy of counterpopulation and where it's runs out. Thirdly, I have heard about an educational firm with the emphasis on training in the company. But are these two colluding? A business that is not a good school will not be a good business either. These two, business and educational quality, are necessarily going together, if not in the short term, certainly in the medium to long term. A school that does not invest in finding good teachers and its teachers is not going well and as a business, will not have students and will not be developed and maintained. In any case, if you focus only on education, and that there is no business, let us now bring an amendment here to discuss a failed training company must be stalled. Because it is not possible to allow the training company to be a good school on the one hand, but then when it fails, as a major training centre has failed now, to say that this is a problem for the private sector and to cut off its heads and herring workers on it and the herds of parents and students on it. Business and school are concepts that can coexist in my mind. A good school will be a successful business. And a successful company that has profits can invest in teachers and students. With these thoughts, I would like to express my enthusiasm for the Minister's initiative, the dear friend Nikos Kerameos and the whole political leadership. I see Sophia Zacharakis, of course, in charge of the matter. I, too, will be voting in favour, along with all the co-population, and I hope that a part of the Reconciliation will also have the whole of this bill, which I hope will continue to have in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u290	Last speaker was Mr Dimitris Konstantopoulos from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u291	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, our Constitution in Article 16(8) provides for the operation of private training, not only as a private initiative but as a public function by a public body subject to state control and supervision. State supervision, therefore, is what needs to be exercised through a stable framework in order to function and actually fulfil the constitutional requirement. This project, Minister, beyond the proper functioning of the school unit and beyond the quality of the pupils' teaching, must respect and defend the working rights of teachers. Here, of course, this self-evident safeguard of the educational labour and scientific entity must be shielded and shielded without being cancelled or canceled the flexibility and dynamics of the private initiative. In other words, it must prevent arbitrary practices wherever they come from. For us, for PASOK, the Change Movement, labour security combined with healthy entrepreneurship and respect for the rules is our priority for a modern progressive policy in the field of private education. Ladies and gentlemen, a regulatory framework has been historically formulated by the Greek state, which has been expressed many times by legislation. So on this historic route from the vote of von Habsburg. It is important that the PASOK governments should make a contribution to this process by the end of the year. Our own policies, PASOK policies, have contributed to the creation of a fair regulatory framework, a framework which for all has ensured the working rights of private teachers. For example, Law 1581/1983, Law 1565/1975, Law 2986/2002, Law 3848/2010 on government of George Papandreou. The aim of PASOK was one: to improve the education provided as a public and social asset. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, we have established and the PASOK has legislated by ensuring the necessary balance between the total absence of state supervision and full state intervention, without extremism and without ideals. Logicals, of course, are inconsistent with a modern European state. We have lived the SYRIZA - ANEL Government in previous years where, in a left-wing demonstration, regulation has been passed inconsistent with European educational reality, which has exacerbated the conflict between teachers and schoolchildren. Today, Minister, we see in a demonstration of your own, conservative regression, arrangements that alter pedagogical autonomy. And I'm saying they're altering pedagogical autonomy because that's the essence. And of course they alter the role of the teacher. We see arrangements that turn private school purely into a business and the good of education into a marketable species. Private education, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be balanced according to the policies of the Ministry of Education and the Ministers concerned. He must serve education within a stable framework with mutual respect for teachers and owners. And especially the students and parents. However, unfortunately this draft law, Minister, dismantles the area of private education. OLEME, ILO, OELE and other trade unions have told you. Didn't you get hurt? For us, the Change Movement for PASOK is our firm position in paragraph 16 of Article 47 of Law 3848/2010. In other words, one of the reasons for dismissal a year in conjunction with the exercise of supervision of private schools and this is exclusively the case by the Ministry of Education. This is our fundamental difference towards the liberal concept of New Democracy to the owners and left populism of SYRIZA and teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, I have repeatedly stressed that we must finally put an end to this sewing. Let me remind you that one year ago as an opposition you accused the SYRIZA Government - ANEL for fast-track procedures, for lack of dialogue, for disapprovement of the consultation bodies. Yes, I remember, Minister, your cocks with Mr Baltas, Mr. Friend, Mr. Gabroglou. Today, Minister, you imitate them and follow the path of mistakes made by them, such as bills under procedures of urgency or urgency, with no substance, with formal hearing of bodies and a vote in plenary session. This, if anything, is called a deterioration in dialogue and a dismantling of procedures. For us, for the Change Movement, for PASOK, your policy to legislate with draft laws and implement your policy with amendments, is not in agreement with us because it seductes every attempt at national dialogue on education. That's why we're kicking your bell. Besides, whenever you understand the path of error is beneficial. I talked about amendments. With this, Minister, you prefer your policy without consultation and without any attempt to reach agreement. Higher level is the end of the term of office of training directors. Karatot, Minister, a hundred and sixteen training staff. Elected officials from the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government who have been selected under a specific legislative framework in which we, the Change Movement, have been across and condemned. We condemn this choice. In fact, with questions we had pointed out that their term of office had expired. We suggested that you proceed with a new law to new options. You have deafened, although they have been judged to be unconstitutional and you know it. Let me remind you that there are convicted judgments for them, there are injustices, there are prosecutions. And you should have healed this in time. You didn't. In fact, twenty days ago you voted to extend their term of office. What are you doing today? You are voting for the end of the vote. What was he intervening, Minister? What happened? What is the operative cause of this amendment? I'd like an answer. Madam Minister, we have seen the same work before. The educational community has condemned it. You give the impression that you are trying to give the replacement of this curtain of merit. I wish you would mean it and do it, so that you do not spread to the mistakes of your predecessors and we come to the definition with party criteria. Let me remind you of times of SYRIZA - ANEL. In the thirteen regional directors, merit was twelve SYRIZA, an unknown father. Take care, then, don't get over them. Also a huge mistake, Minister, the setting-up of the selection board without the participation of elected representatives. It is a choice for which historically you must consider your responsibilities. Our proposal here and now, on the basis of Law 3848/2010, with the necessary improvements that it needs by a intergroup committee to draw up the new law on choices and immediately to come to the House to legislate. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we must learn from our mistakes. Let us now stop treating the field of education as a spoil or a political spoil. Let phansy stop, because I have heard many speak against private schools, when many of them in these chairs send their children to private schools. I referred to Diamantopoulou Law 3848/2010. They say citizens, but can't you sit down and find a common education partner? Mr L.3848, ladies and gentlemen, it has been passed as I have repeatedly said since 4/5 of this House. This law passed by the 4/5 of the House was initially decentralised by Mr Arvanitopoulos and was abolished overnight by the SYRIZA - ANEL government. The conclusions of yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u292	Madam Minister, you have the floor. You can also tell us about the parliamentary amendments, which you are accepting and which you do not.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u293	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all there are three ministerial amendments in total, some of them already have been incorporated. Obviously, they're all accepted. Now, with regard to the legislative amendments, there are five amendments dealing with two issues. The three relate to the paradox, with regard to the ADP competitions. The Minister responsible, the Minister for the Interior, came here and answered as you heard he was investigating the matter with the AACC and he would discuss with the President about the resolution of the matter. I think the answers were given in a proper manner. So these amendments in this House cannot be accepted. Two other amendments relating to an issue that we have discussed many, concerning the 2008 SAAP competition. Both the State Secretary and I have been placed extensively and in topical questions. What we have said in this context, and in particular the reference to the decisions of the three-member Compliance Councils and the obligation of the administration to comply that has already been made. So, Mr President, no parliamentary amendments are accepted. I take this opportunity, and I close with it, to say that as we committed ourselves, today is a very important day. It is a very important day, because from now on teachers, appointed to special treatment - for the first time in our country's history, permanent appointments to special treatment through APA - are saying the areas for their permanent appointment. We are talking about a bill on private education, but at the same time the government and the Ministry of Education are working very hard on the overall upgrading of public education, public school, the public university. I told you today the assignments to special education. I told you yesterday of important new positions. New membership positions and new positions of administrative and EDPS and EIB staff assigned to our universities. So while we are discussing very important private education, at the same time we are constantly working on our first priority, which is the overall upgrade of public school and public universities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u294	The Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sakova, wants to make a comment on the amendment. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u295	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to ask the Minister why I really have asked a question on this amendment that we tabled as a party. Madam Minister, you said this was settled. How can this have been settled when these people are still undetermined? They're successful, and they've already been vindicated by the court. The S.T.E. He says you need to hire them. Here we are constantly coming with questions and this has been an unfinished situation for eleven years. I would like to ask something that is essential, Mr President, and it is about all the citizens who are listening to us at the moment and to all those who participate in the SAEP competition. We must tell them at the end: you are taking part in a competition you are judged successful and finally the state, whichever Ministry says 'you are not hired because I have committed a violation'. That's what I want to understand, Minister. You can say this here today, so the citizens can hear it, and we can understand it so that we never ask you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u296	Madam Minister, here you go, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr President. As I have told you, Mrs Sacorafa, and we have told it in topical questions, there are decisions of three-member compliance councils. These decisions contain a specific reference to the compliance of the administration with this obligation. With regard to the termination of the tables, there are specific decisions of three-member compliance councils. If you want, there can be an opportunity to discuss this again and more widely. However, we have been placed on this and I have mentioned to you in the public debate in particular the decisions of the three-member Compliance Councils.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u298	Mr President, please, just one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u299	Mr President, may I ask you something?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u300	Mr Castagnides, these are the amendments now that are specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u301	Mr President, that is why I would like to ask you something.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u302	The rapporteur could take the floor if she wanted to see the amendments. If you want a minute, after Mrs. Sacorafa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u303	Mr President, I would like to say that here we have eleven people who have achieved this competition, and I repeat that to hear it again because the Minister has referred to tables. It has never ended the table, but there is an irregularity of the administration and the table that should follow the names of those who had achieved, 'we have screwed', forgive me the expression, and we have gone to some others. So we left out those who had succeeded properly, and the administration had to take them, they were appointed, they were left out and we went into another situation. Can you tell me what kind of compliance this is from the administration in a decision of the Council of State? To understand it and to understand it, the citizens too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u304	Here you go, Mr. Castanides, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u305	I address you, Mr President. Because I am not prepared to speak as a legal person to whom I do not know what his desperate legal systems are. So I'm addressing you. There's a pilot trial for the Council of State. The pilot trial in 2015 warrants a series of teachers who have appealed to the lower administrative courts and on the basis of the pilot trial is invited, in order for the administrative courts to accept the appointment of those who have been justified. From your judicial experience there can be a three-member court of conformity, which will tell the administration "I appreciate that the pilot trial of the Council of State lies up to this point and from there and then I suggest what I want."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u306	Madam Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u307	First of all, I didn't understand or listen. I am told here that you have referred in a disgraceful way. I didn't hear what you said. If there is anything personal about my legal training, you can tell it directly and not the President. In any case, if you have a proposal to make in compliance with these three-member decisions, I am here to discuss it. You put forward a specific proposal for a solution to what you say, because, as you say, it is eleven years old. So here we are, to discuss. Our government and our ministry are always open to dialogue. But derogatory behaviors and deceptive expressions, please very much not to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u308	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u309	No, Mr. Castanides, please. He didn't have any staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u310	Mr President, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u311	Let me explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u312	Mr President, just one sentence for the decommissioning.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u313	According to 68, it did not give rise to reproach, but neither did it alter the content. If you want to make it clear that your behavior was not derogating, to restore moral order. Just say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u314	Mr President, you will not tell me what to say. Ma'am, a political executive's derogatory behaviour is not the rating crisis. The derogatory behaviour is to state clearly that it does not comply with decisions of the highest courts in the country. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u315	The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs is adjourned...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u316	Mr President, we also have secondary speeches.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u317	No one has asked for the floor, and in any case it was a single debate on the articles and amendments. Do you want to talk about the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u318	I told you that the secondary speech is pending.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u319	All right, Mr. Philly. I will give the floor to all the rapporteurs for three minutes and the Minister will be closed after that. Mrs. Pipili, will you speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u320	After Mr. Friend speaks, I'll make a statement. Mr President, I am not going to go into detail because I think we have all been clear about what is the objective of this bill. We also analysed his educational aspects, and analysed our ideological side. I think he was overcovered by the New Democracy Members. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Mrs Kerameos, Mrs Zacharakis and my colleagues and to welcome this House by waiting for me to vote on behalf of my party.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u321	Thank you. Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u322	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I quote and you will understand why words are not my words: "The proposed bill overturns previous Memorandum commitment as it provides for transferring the labour relations of private education teachers from the Ministry of Labour to the Ministry of Education and reintroducing permanent employment for teachers in private schools. According to the article proposed, a committee will replace the courts and have the power to decide whether a dismissal will be justified or not. In the past few weeks the Ministry of Education has also issued a circular declaring the evaluation of teachers promoted in private schools illegally. I would like to ask you to withdraw this circular in order to allow the private sector to assess its staff. In line with its commitments we expect the government to refrain from tabling this draft law in Parliament. Instead, the issues regulated in this bill should be included in the evaluation of education." Signed: Declan Costello, European Commission, Directorate-General for Economic and Financial Affairs. It was a letter sent when I was Minister to prevent private education from being tabled and voted. We responded in practice, tabled it and voted for it. But what does it matter? Does that argument remind you of anything? It was the government's argument here today in this House for that reason. We have a sound of memorial politicians. You used to say that if we didn't have the memos, we should invent them, so you said. And now that we've come out of the memorials, you're coming back to memorial cruel arrangements. It is a more general issue, I stress. Mr President, you have also made Minister. All the ministers are coming at a time when they have to weigh one thing to make decisions, what is the public interest. The public interest in the field of education is covered by the Constitution, by the constitutional acquis of post-multi-policy. We are not dealing with private interests which must be favoured. We're dealing with the public interest. So let us leave to the corner a number of manhattan apologies that we have heard now. Nobody's asking for private education to be closed. We are calling for the constitutional acquis to be applied. She said the Minister said and I repeat it. I said and said it proudly today: Work, the task of the Minister of Education is to make public education as much as possible so that private school can be unnecessary in the end. This is the aim of the Minister of Education and not to advertise private schools. I'm done, and I'm sorry. A lot could be said. There is this amendment that we have seen today for the appointment of the new training staff. Look, this amendment shows that the good ones are also excellent at the government. The SYRIZA government has voted for a selection procedure for training directors. It applied it to regional directors with the participation of the IASP and the School of Public Administration and had a very substantial effect. The evaluation has been carried out. The same framework exists and there is. You haven't applied it. The process started, but it was suspended by the elections. You came a month ago and said you'd do it later. And now hurry and without knowing which context. Who will appoint the committee? Is there gonna be an SAPA? Is there going to be the Public Administration School? On what criteria? Is there going to be a molecule? These are fundamental issues which, unfortunately, you leave them in a party committee, confirming that for you the Final, as you say, the State is the well-known party state of the Right. Mr President, Mr Vernardakis, in reply to Mrs Kerameo's remarks that for the first time, there are positions on educational and administrative staff at universities, has brought the FEK here and has shown that there have been hundreds of new appointments by SYRIZA government. There was also a return to the universities of those who persecuted Mr. Mitsotakis as Minister of Administrative Reform in the Government of Samaras. Today, indeed, we have a new element, the appointments to special education. We are pleased that these appointments have been made at the initiative of SYRIZA. We enrolled in the 2019 budget for four and a half to five thousand appointments in special education. We have passed a law to make these appointments. New Democracy had voted against him. He has not dared to "demolish" him now that he has become a government. And we are obviously pleased that this is a first step towards returning to the legality that was disturbed by the memoranda that had driven thousands of teachers out of education. It is obvious - and I say this again - that we weigh our own political behaviour on a single criterion: the public interest, which is brutally violated by today's private education bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u323	Thank you. Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor. And after you're done, I'll say my views.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u324	Mr President, on the occasion of this second cycle, I would like to highlight two things. Both the New Democracy and SYRIZA today must be very concerned about this debate. The ping pong that we have seen between the white one - black in the two parties shows that they have not realised that the area of education is mainly a space of consensus, mainly a place where the common place, common sense and not a field for micro-party interests and toys are sought. I would say to you that what we all have to look at today in a different spirit and what is important within our committee is the quality of public school, which in nothing does not have to envy private schools when it works with merit, when it works on evaluation, when it is in training. In order to be able to catch these goals, the Minister should also lower the head and see the very big issues that the public school has today and SYRIZA understand that he cannot hypocritically fight against something that has been in Greek society for years and is the private school. They do not operate competitively. They can work in parallel. They can help each other to develop because in our own perception education and education is one. I want to conclude with the amendments and I have two points to make. I have to comment on the joy with which the Minister is talking about recruitment today, and of course SYRIZA is trying to get something from the glory, because it is indeed with a Gavroglou law that these recruitments are going on today, but I want you to think about the criteria for how remarkable they were and how many qualified people, at this time it is excluded because of the distortion that this notice has created. Neither SAAP nor benchmarks. The whole chain was cut and sewn, which both Mrs Kerameos and the New Democracy party had voted against and did not find the courage to come and implement their commitment to abolish the Gavroglou law. Let's go to the command officers. For management at the moment it is too late on the government side, and that exposes it twice. It sets it out because it should have started with this initiative as a symbolic move, and it should have carried out a bill rather than this glue which would create more problems in an area which has already been too late to find pitfalls, because the SYRIZA - ANEL - has been able to level what was elected with merit and what was a situation in an evaluation that is supposed to be the great demand for this effort by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u325	Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Mr President. Anyone who was carefully following today's meeting, but also the committee's meetings, and left a little aside the designations and crowns that were not missing in such a bill and were also expected to come to a conclusion, I think. He would say that the real dividing line between the political forces is the one that defines who accepts and who does not accept business action in education. And entrepreneurial activity in education, in education, accepts all other parties except the Communist Party of Greece. That's for restoring the real truth. As far as the bill is concerned, the Minister told her about the ten truths of the bill that characterize it. All these truths, Minister, are true only for traders, only for the entrepreneurs of education. And these truths become a dangerous lie for workers in private schools, private education and their rights. What is the substance of the bill that is being completed in a moment? It's double. On the one hand, the business field of education entrepreneurs is expanded in time, but it is expanded in many areas, even on holidays even in summers. Of course, the entrepreneurial patterns which are now involved in the goods called "education" and the corresponding adaptation were also raised. We understand that need. They grew the "magazies" to say it simply and folk. Of course, all this is done by pursuing an even greater business profit. The other side of this substance is the intensity of the exploitation of workers, which also needs the appropriate means of enforcement. It is not easy for workers to take advantage of their employers. Here, then, is the tool of evaluation, the tool of the rules of procedure, which are tools and weapons for employers, and of course its super gun is no more than subjecting these workers to the common labour law. Look, this is a threat to workers, because the common labour law, not only does it not offer any safety, but it is barely dangerous as we see it, as it is and as it is. All of this, of course, you will tell me about most of the Members of the New Democracy are only ideas, hugging, state interventionism. This is how, unfortunately, the government's work rights are treated by teachers. Now in relation to freedom of choice, because too much has been heard here about the sacred right to freedom of choice. Look, freedom of choice, we have also said in committee, it also presupposes the possibility of implementing it, otherwise it becomes an empty shirt. It has no practical effect. As for aiding teaching, we are taking it back to committee again, is the government with the provision of Article 14 going to strengthen something that is not taught? And do you seriously believe that the strengthening teaching, in the way we are used to doing it, to start around Christmas, to be run by assistant teachers, will there be no need for them to go to the schools and especially to the children who choose these special courses? Is that what you think? I am closing for the amendments, Mr President. There is an amendment in relation to the staffing of the training bodies, the managers and the heads of staff. We don't think the government is original here. As Mozart would say: 'cosi fan tutte'. That is how all governments do, that is, sometime, for a transitional period their own people, so that the next selection process will bring those results that they want. I am going to turn to an amendment which is really characteristic of the way the legislature is done and which prevents us, at least because it has three provisions, from voting on one, and not on the other. I am talking about the amendment regulating the transfer of pupils - it does not solve them, it says that it regulates them, but squeeze is done - and to resolve the issue of the cleaning of schools. There is no solution to this issue. It is referred to the municipalities for the further, without such care from the State. The third provision of this amendment refers to school wheelchairs and to the conclusion of the subject of their payment. And don't imagine we're talking about any big money. People get a little money. We brought this with a written question a month ago. However, in the way that comes here as an amendment and because we cannot vote on the two previous articles, we should like to make it clear here that the third part of this provision would like to vote on it. We cannot, however, because the amendment comes unified and prevent us from doing so. Finally, it is regrettable, unfortunately, that the rejection of the 3 euro amendment. People are being convicted without their fault. Most of them aren't to blame. It is the system that has not recognised the payment of this paradox and are condemned to unemployment. We hope that it will be dealt with, although in the way that the Minister of Home Affairs has put forward today - and I mean, the Minister for the Interior - will not give us much hope.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u327	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u328	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think that all this time there has been an exhausting debate. And I say exhaustively because the bill was very small, it was coherent, it had a specific target, and I think it was time for us to discuss in depth a bill which, as we have already said, concerns a small proportion of the population, but it has a very profound symbolism. I would like to thank all the rapporteurs and all my fellow Members very much for their positions. And I would like to end with a point on which I think we are all exceptionally in agreement. And that is the fact that two worlds really conflict in the bill. That's what I think we're agreed on. On the one hand it is the world of progress, the world that wants schools under the supervision of the state, but more freely, more autonomously, schools that can freely develop their actions and, on the other hand, the world of regression, minor effort, warfare against any concept of evaluation, that is, the world that wants the state to spread its tentacles everywhere, the state not only oversee private initiative, but the state to run private business. In this conflict, I think the impossibility of arguments has been revealed, and I am referring specifically to Civic Opposition. It seemed there's something powerful. What's that powerful? This ideoleptic obsession. But we didn't hear business. But I have heard something today and I am glad to hear it because everything we have been saying is confirmed. He said, "yes, we want the private school to be unnecessary." Well, Mr. Philly, we disagree. We're fighting for the public school. We are making every effort for the public school, but it is incomprehensible to say in this Chamber, in the temple of democracy, a phrase that runs counter to the Greek Constitution, because the Greek Constitution provides for public and private education. It is not possible, as former Minister for Education, to say what we have been saying for so many days, 'I want to abolish private education'. So what do we call the New Democracy? We say that we will make every effort, we will fight on the night for a better public school, for more opportunities for all, but at the same time we will also give the opportunity, we will give the private schools freedom and autonomy, which, yes, the state is supervising. And like today, Mr. Friend, you have stated your intention to circumvent the Constitution, you have said it very well...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u329	Is that how we're gonna talk now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u330	...that's what you did with the training staff. And I say it because in this Chamber we were, when you legislated the law on the executives, and we told you that the provision for the secret ballot was contrary to the Constitution. You called us excessive, destructive and so on. But did the Council of State come and judge the law unconstitutional, with what result? Unconstitutional the selection of all executives void the placements of training executives. So here, where in this area - it does not surprise us - it turned out that you were going against the Constitution. From the - what did you call it? - "Every word of this Constitution", you went to "Strengthening the Constitution" and also to your choice not to correct this irregularity because you could have corrected it. You didn't fix it. So, Mr Philly, 'the house of the hanger is not talking about rope'. And I'll close with this. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a very important day. It is very important first of all for public education, because something has never been done in the history of education in our country. For the first time there are permanent appointments to special treatment via ASP. This very sensitive group, which needs state support, this very sensitive area of public education, will for the first time acquire permanent teachers, and these teachers from today choose where they will serve. It is therefore a very important day for public education. But it is also a very important day for private education, for the important areas in this area, for the golden section between state supervision and degrees of freedom and autonomy. And I say this because for us both - public and private education - they coexist harmoniously. There is public provision and private provision, and that is not bad. On the contrary, it is healthy and constitutional and it is what our Constitution demands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u331	Before I finish the debate, I would like to make a statement. Of course, the Rules of Procedure provide for the abbreviations and this is not called into question. However, it has another provision that says the speaking time of speakers, speakers, special speakers and rapporteurs, which is not respected. So we cannot invoke one provision without the other. Apart from that, no one has said - from what I have heard, because I have not been in the morning - that it will make use of dentistry. Because if you were to use the seconds, we would count on the President-in-Office of the Council and we could well have a balanced distribution of time for each speaker, but above all, we would not have to cut down one minute later on by the Members, who are not to blame. These are issues which have also been dealt with in the Conference of Presidents. Vice-Presidents have all the parties and these have been said. In addition, all the amendments have been made in due course. One, the first, has been submitted to the committee and has been accepted and incorporated into a provision of the draft law. The other two are known, one from 25 July and the other from 27 July. So you've known them since the morning to be able to develop your views. I am not talking about the Members, I am talking about the ministerial amendments which have been accepted. But that was not the case. A more general statement on Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure. What's he saying? That the speaker cannot move away from the main point of view of the debate, that is to say from the main point of view of this House. Of course, we are not talking about a case when there is an excellent issue of topicality. The Prime Minister, the Heads of the Parties and, of course, the Parliamentary Representatives, are mostly speaking. I will now confide you that I went and did a survey in the Minutes on the latest events concerning international news. Every Member - and I am not referring to the Heads of State or Government, of course - spoke of everything that was happening in the international area. Of course, they were topical, but several days had passed since many events and everyone spoke about international news. So I went to see the Minutes a little, not for another reason, but to use them, perhaps tomorrow, at the Conference of Presidents. And what did I find out? Members of all the parties - I am not making any distinction - who have done nothing but copy what their leaders have said here in the Chamber. I wondered, what's that for? As a result, they were going beyond speaking time and "pay it" to the Members who stayed behind. So that's what we have to respect. Neither I nor any other Vice-President has ever cut or removed the floor from the speakers. But we must respect time for the following Members. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs is closed: "Modernisation of private education and other urgent provisions of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the start of the bill, thirty-one articles, two amendments, and I say two because the third is already incorporated - the farewell article, as well as the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, as well as the hotel article and the entire bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u332	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u333	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u334	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: ‘Modernisation of private education and other urgent provisions of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of the articles and the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u335	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u336	The House has given the mandate requested. The minutes of Monday 1 June 2020, Tuesday 2 June 2020, Wednesday 3 June 2020, Friday 5 June 2020, Wednesday 10 June 2020, Friday 10 June 2020, Friday 12 June 2020, Monday 15 June 2020, Tuesday 16 June 2020, Wednesday 17 June 2020, Wednesday 17 June 2020, Wednesday 17 June 2020, Thursday 18 June 2020, Friday 19 June 2020, Monday 22 June 2020, Wednesday 24 June 2020, Thursday 25 June 2020 and Friday 26 June 2020 have been distributed. I would like to ask the House whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u337	The minutes of Monday 1 June 2020, Tuesday 2 June 2020, Wednesday 3 June 2020, Friday 5 June 2020, Tuesday 9 June 2020, Wednesday 10 June 2020, Friday 12 June 2020, Monday 15 June 2020, Tuesday 16 June 2020, Wednesday 17 June 2020 morning, Wednesday 17 June 2020, Thursday 18 June 2020, Friday 19 June 2020, Monday 22 June 2020, Wednesday 24 June 2020, Thursday 25 June 2020 and Friday 26 June 2020 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-28-S1-commons.u338	With the agreement of the House at no time of 23.29' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 29 July 2020 at 9.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) Parliamentary control, topical questions debate and (b) legislative work, only debate and vote on the principle, Articles and all of the draft law: ‘Forest interventions to strengthen the development process of the Greek economy, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directives (EU) 2017/1852, (EU) 2018/822, (EU) 2018/876, (EU) 2016/1164, (EU) 2018/1910 and (EU) 2019/475, a public contribution to repaying loans for stricken borrowers due to the adverse effects of COVERD disease -19 and other provisions’.
