ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 5-11-2020 authorisation, the minutes of the JRC's meetings, Thursday 5-11-2020, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law, were ratified by the Bureau in accordance with the requirements of Article 6(1) ECHR on the reasonable duration of the political trial, amendments to the Code of Laws and other provisions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we move on to the timelines for today's Questions, let me first tell the House on Monday, 9 November 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 106/30-10-2020 by Mr Anna Efthyriou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: "The state of OSH". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 100/30-10-2020, a topical question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Exclusive responsibility of the ND Government for the deficit of the Special Account for the RES". 3. The question by number 98/26-10-2020 of the Member of the Ilias Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Insecurity and uncertainty for the Scaramaga Naval workers". 4. The Question No 99/26-10-20, by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Papastastasis to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "For the problem of housing of the officials of the Santorini airport of the Santorini. 5. The 113/2-11-2020 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Union effort of the Minister to influence the decision of S.A. for the ancients at Venizelos station;’; B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "The Volos is ill with atmospheric pollution". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 101/30-10-2020 by MP B2' Western Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nandias) Giannakopoulou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Main question the concern of the workers of the Scaramaga Shipyards". 3. The 104/30-10-2020 topical question by SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Protecting health and safety and safeguarding jobs in private enterprises with cases of coronary diseases". 4. The Question No 107/30-10-2020 by the Vice-President of Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Scientific attraction to the ESS for the reversal of Brain Drain". 5. The question asked by MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Balafa, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Union treatment of beneficiaries of a national pension.' 6. The question under number 108-1-11-20 is a topical question by MP B1' North Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Finance, entitled 'Increase of aid ceilings by enterprise by the European Union'. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question raised by Mr George Mulkiotis, Member of the European Parliament, with reference to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, concerning the "Scaramaga Naval Crisis". 8. The 116/2-11-2020 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Working in the Shipyards of Scaramaga, the H/B shipbuilding programme. 214 and maintenance of vessels P/N.’ REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of its Rules of Procedure). (Parliament adopted 1. The 29/5-10-2020 question by SYRIZA MP Laconia - Progressive Alliance Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The health system is ready to deal with the cases of a coronary in Laconia". And now we are going to discuss topical and urgent questions scheduled for today. In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that three topical questions will be discussed today. First we will discuss the second question under number 110/2-11-2020 of the first cycle of MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Medical express connection until the completion of the extension of Line 2 of the metro to Petroupolis, Illion and Cameroon". The State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr. Ioannis Kefaloyiannis. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, to be honest, I am surprised that you are here. It is a matter that we have discussed at official meetings and here in this House, more than fifteen times, with the Minister. This is a subject that is evolving and I am surprised that it has not come to discuss it myself. In any case, the proposal came after I met Mayor Ilio a few months ago and I have repeatedly brought it to Parliament. I think we are talking about self-evident, because at the moment three municipalities are actually cut off from the means of fixed track. We are talking about Petroupoli, Illion, Cameroon and more extensive Saint Anargyros. The extension of Metro Line 2 costs little compared to any other extension that is in the stools. That is why it could be implemented very promptly and indeed give access to the media to a population of over two hundred and fifty thousand citizens, something very important. We are talking about a population that is previously young for Greek data, with a youth population of more than 30%. In these areas where, in fact, public transport operates and is completely unreliable, where delays reach forty minutes and even today continue to reach thirty minutes, the situation is dramatic for children who want to get to their activities and for students who want to reach their universities and for workers who need to go to work. All of that with Lockdown may sound less important, but problems don't stop because the world will be closed at home. These problems don't cease with Lockdown, but they accumulate and the next day they'll be even worse, as it was after the previous lockdown. What I am asking for is, therefore, the very simple one, that is, your immediate commitment to the timetable for the notice of Line 2 or this extension, in practice of the four stations, and to the launch of an express bus line, which connects the existing last station of Line 2 in Anthuboli to the points of future metro parking, as designed by these four new stations, so that there is already access to these points when this metro line exists and if the express lines reach the centre of the cities, in the middle of the three municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I will start with a general comment. I think the current government has shown that it respects Parliament and answers the vast majority of questions, almost 100%. Therefore, the Minister is not present, while there is the Ministry's presence, and I think it is something that is relatively different, unless you want to address the issue properly. We are here, precisely because we respect Parliament's function, we respect the role of the Member. I believe that parliamentary control is a top Parliamentary procedure, and that is why I think that all colleagues from the government, except in the case of something very extraordinary, are here. In fact, I think that if you look at the Minutes of the House in the previous parliamentary term, you will see that Parliament's operation on this issue is at least excellent. Now we're going to the point of question. I would also agree with you that it is indeed an area that has dynamic characteristics. Do not forget, too, that the Prime Minister himself, Mr Mitsotakis, is a member of the Western Sector. I think that this in itself also gives a particular weight to the fact that it has chosen the region in order to be elected as a Member of Parliament. I would therefore like to tell you, with regard to your first question, namely the extension of Metro Line 2 to the section on the Illion line, namely three new stations, the first studies, namely geological, geotechnical and topographical, have already been completed. This means that the project will be ready for tender when a number of other studies are completed so that we can go to environmental impact study and proceed with the tendering of the project. This is something that, according to the administration of the "ATTYMERO", is already being planned. It will be a project involving this extension, i.e. towards Illion, costing some 350 million euros. This is at least an initial assessment. Perhaps this amount, when completed, and the studies go upwards. It's not a cheap play. Of course, however, it is a project that is necessary for the region and also the corresponding funding is also being sought from the European Union funds for the new programming period 2021-2027. Now, as far as the extension to Cameroon and Ano Liosia is concerned, the viability and feasibility of the project are concerned, because there is little more immature, that is, the topographical work for the studies of this project must be carried out. I am assured that both extensions are in the main priorities, and that is something that, as soon as these studies are completed, we will be able to tell you more specifically about the timetables. However, these studies are being prepared. Already on both extensions there is one programming and, therefore, we will certainly be more specific at a future stage. Now, as far as the bus lines are concerned, although I will extend to my dentistry, Mr. Colleague, you will see that there is a sufficient connection between all three municipalities and the means of fixed track. I will also submit to you concrete evidence that proves my words. In any case, if you wish, there is one specific programming for these three regions, because in fact, as I have said in my prototype, we are talking about a young audience and a population quite large in the specific districts. Of course, the intention of the Government and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is that no district of Attica should be cut off either from a fixed track or from the centre of Athens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u5	Good. Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, I have not mentioned whether there is a representation of the Ministry. I said that this is a matter that we have discussed more than fifteen times with the Minister personally, and I would expect he to be here for this debate. I said it because you were simply not a society of this debate. You weren't there, that's why I said it. In any case, the problem over there is huge. The problem in western Athens in general is huge with transport and, indeed, is treated as another city, like a second-class city. I've reported to the House and topics with lines 700, A11, B11, 720, ex C10. You're right. The network is dense. What are you going to do, though, if there are networks where there really seems to be a bus going, when this bus goes too late, with shocking delays and eventually becoming the transport so unreliable that it does not exist? That's the reality right now. Because the issue is 'But, well, we don't have enough buses. There was the problem, and now we're starting to solve it with the CBELs." You know, however, there are two hundred fifty buses that are currently ready with minimal micro-reservations in the OSCE, so that they can get into the streets. Why does the government not continue to maintain these buses, so that it can provide the people with the acceptable and reliable transport? You know, if we go three times to one stop and we are in a hurry for our work - because every man has set his schedule strictly so that he can prevent all his duties, all his obligations - and he is late for 40 minutes and we lose our meetings, we are unreliable to our own personal and professional life. Then we will judge that there is no transport system and we will try to find private means. This is the situation right now in West Athens and I invite you to resolve it. I urge you in your dentistry to commit to the express line. It is something that the municipality asks for is something that is common sense. You know, as I have told the Minister, it is a model that should be used in all the other municipalities in the west and in all the other municipalities in the rest of Greece, where you have cases where there will be a future extension and you have not yet made progress. In other words, the creation of an express line linking the last existing station to the future would provide a relief. In fact, I can't imagine anything more than following your second-guessment that this line - expressly will go ahead. On the political side, on the Prime Minister and on his presence as a Member of Parliament in the region, I have a lot to say if you want, but I think it is not in this debate. But I'll note something about your ministry. After my timely question, the Prime Minister came to the district of Agios Anargyros and pledged to hand over to the municipality the abandoned train station of the OSE. A year later, nothing has happened. Since you have opened the matter of the Prime Minister, answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u7	Good. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u8	Colleague, as far as the bus lines are concerned, you know that there is a more general design from the OSCE, which refers not only to a local feature of a particular municipality or a particular area, but is a grid of lines and links between the bus lines and the trolley lines and, of course, to the fixed tracks, whether we are talking about a subway or a tram. Therefore, you realise that it is not so simple to say that 'you know, we make a line and perhaps we disconnect it from a more general design'. I will start with what I have told you in my prototype, because it is good to hear truths in this Chamber, as people listen to us, people listen to us, who chose us to be here and I think we should be very specific. There are dense links to all three municipalities in relation to the fixed track points. I say this specifically to you: As far as the Municipality of Agios Anargyra, Petroupoli and Ilios are concerned, we have 13 bus lines and trolley lines. If you want to mention them specifically: It is the line 024 Saints Anargyroi - Lower Patisia, it is the 25th Antony - Illion - Cameroon, it is the 701 Cameroon - Ilion - Anthoupolis, it is the 705, it is the 735, it is the 892, it is the A10, it is the A10, it is the B10, it is the B11, it is the B12 and it is the C12. As far as the municipality of Petroupoli is concerned, there is a connection between the metro network and six bus lines and trolleybuses, namely line 24, is 700, 719, 747, A11 and B11. Finally, as regards the municipality of Ilios, we are talking about seventeen additional bus lines and trolleybus lines which connect this municipality to the metro network and which are 24, 25, 700, 705, 706, 730, 731, 735, 719, 747, 892, B10, B11, B12 and C12. So you realise, Mr President, that when we talk about transport work not only of the three municipalities, but of the capital as a whole, we must take account of the great picture. I mentioned one by one the lines connecting the three specific municipalities of Western Athens with the means of fixed track, with metro stations, precisely to serve the inhabitants of these areas. In my opinion, they are sufficiently covered. From there on, if there are any shortages, we are, of course, open to discussion. I'll tell you something else, Mr. President. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You referred to the issue of certain vehicles, which need some repair to get out on the streets. In July 2019, when we took over - me and Mr Karamanlis - the fates of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, they were on the streets of Athens, eight hundred buses and trolleys, which unfortunately only covered a very small percentage of traffic. Today, at the moment we are talking, they run around a thousand percent, that is, there is an increase of about 26% compared with what was going on a year ago. This emerged, firstly, from the fact that there was a climbing of buses and trolleys and went further on the streets, because some vehicles are maintained and repaired. Of course, because we are talking about vehicles of quite high age, there are also the damage, which, if you like, leads to one, which is where some of them are left out. Many of these buses have boosted the lines that I have mentioned. There is cooperation with the CBELs - we have at the moment we are talking about a hundred additional buses - and these lines of these areas have also been strengthened. I commit myself to you, Mr Arseni, Mr Colleague, that now in the design that will enter and a hundred additional buses by the end of November we will consider further strengthening the lines of Western Athens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u9	Good. Thank you, Mr. Minister. We enter the debate of the first under number 105/30-10-2020 in the first cycle of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Konstantinos Markos to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "An unjustified delay in the statement by the Special Committee on the administrative investigation of disciplinary infringements of the staff of EL.AS." The State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer. Mr Marcus, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for your presence. To begin with, I would like to make a statement saying that I condemn in the most unequivocal way yesterday's attack on Patras with arson material and burnt down Mr Foyla's car. These actions do not serve democracy - we are clear in this - and in these activities, Minister, you must show your value and not what I am going to refer to. So, what's the story? Under Protocol 1043/21-11-2019, a five-member committee was set up under the chairmanship of the Honoured Professor Alivizatos for the regular follow-up of the process of implementing observations and findings of the Citizens' Co-rapporteur on the administrative investigation of disciplinary misconduct committed by the official staff of the Greek Police. The conclusion of this committee has been submitted and is in your knowledge since 4 May 2020. On 19 June 2020, you submitted a relevant question and a request to submit a document from forty SYRIZA Members, on whom you yourself, Mr Economou, gave the folk answer that he ‘has departed for evaluation’. On 24-7-2020, one month later and three months after the conclusion was received, you would have studied - we assume - and evaluated the finding. We reconfirmed our request. The answer was that 'nothing you have to add'. In this same reply on 13-8-2020, you yourself, Mr Economou, have informed us that for four months you have been studying and evaluating the Commission's findings. It's been another year since. Now, on 6-11-2020, six months after his statement, the Ministry refuses to inform the House of the Alivizato Committee's conclusion. Of course, society has taken it out for the ministry's policy. What I mean to say is this: Your refusal has two logical explanations. One is that you consider that you do not politically benefit from the conclusions of the Alibizatou Committee. The other explanation is that it's not that tragic. I cannot know what the committee has, but you want to show in this way and deny your contempt for the parliamentary process and democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u11	Good. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to say that, with reference to the arson of Mr Fotella's car, I would like to assure you that all steps are taken to bring the perpetrators to justice. It is very important, however, that Parliament as a whole condemns these actions. Of course, it remains not only for a denouncing reason, but also for all of us together, to support the actions needed to ensure that these phenomena are really kept to a minimum and that the perpetrators are brought to justice as quickly as possible and have an effective and effective response to these actions. I will begin with my initial position with a more general point of reference for the reference through the timely question, in respect of parliamentary procedures and, in particular, in the allegations of alleged contempt for the parliamentary control procedure. Since the first time the government has assumed its responsibility for the governance of the country, the government has set itself one of its main priorities for restoring the authority of all the parliamentary procedures. In particular, with regard to procedures under parliamentary control, the members of the Government shall demonstrate the responsibility required by the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and shall, whenever requested, provide the necessary clarification with a view to the absolute control of the activities of the executive and the responsible public information. I also feel the need to point out something that may have passed your attention: the Ministry of Civil Protection declares on a weekly basis present respecting to the absolute extent the inalienable right of all members of the National Representation in the control of government policy and in the information on matters of its competence. So no inconsistency, no evasion, no contempt on the part of the Ministry of Civil Protection for what is going on in this Chamber. Having carefully studied the content of the current question, I can see that you are costing yourself with views that attempt to maintain an image of the civil leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection and its choices that do not correspond to reality. I must therefore, through a brief regression, highlight the important government initiatives taken by the current government leadership of the Ministry in the direction of actively strengthening the accountability of Greek Police officials for any violations, unlawful actions or omissions of them in the performance of their duties and not just. The strengthening of the mechanisms for controlling incidental unlawful actions or even inappropriate behaviour of Greek Police officials has been a strategic choice of the current leadership of the Ministry since the first months of its term of office. In this direction, a decision was taken by the Minister of Civil Protection on 21 November 2019 to set up a Special Committee under the chairmanship of Professor of Constitutional Law Mr. Alivizatos. This mission is to monitor the implementation process by the competent bodies of the observations and findings of the Independent Administrative Authority of Citizens' Counsel of the Party concerning an administrative investigation of disciplinary offences committed by the staff of the Hellenic Police. Our government initiatives, however, were not limited to setting up this committee. We have already made all the necessary moves since the end of 2019 in the form of a Presidential Decree, as a d.d. 111 of 2019, with a clear target improvement in the direction of tightening the process of disciplinary review of police officers, as well as speeding up the award of disciplinary justice. In May 2020, the Special Committee's conclusion under Mr Alivizatos was submitted to the Minister for Civil Protection, which contains the Committee's findings on the extent to which the Citizens' Co-rapporteur's observations were implemented in the context of the administrative examinations, as well as some proposals. Having therefore studied and evaluated its content, we are presenting this finding today in the Greek Parliament. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Citizen Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, presents for the minutes the above findings, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] We have nothing to hide, but do we have nothing to show the main? We have nothing to prove, because we have opened the course of the necessary initiatives in the direction of strengthening accountability to the Greek Police before even submitting this conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Marcus, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u14	Thank you. I could therefore say, Minister, that you have been deaf for six months late. Let us now come to see how you made use of this finding, which we still do not have in mind. I present to you incidents that I have taken from the daily press and thank you and the editors' Newspaper for this help. On October 21st, "AELO", a film "JOKER": Police are brutally invading young students. On 9 November 2019: Narcotics Police are raiding a club in Ghazi. Three hundred bushes are forced to stay kneeled with hands behind the head, young children who had fun. On November 11, 2019: Students gather in the courtyard of the Economic University as a response to the dean's lockout. Two hundred people are caught in the spot, club and chemical hits with several people complaining that access to the EAW was not allowed to receive wounded. The same night a student is arrested at home by methods that refer to other times and after four, five days justice frees him celebratingly. On November 12, 2019: Battle platoon stripes in Charilaos Trikoupi of the actor Hadjigeorgiou because he twisted them. On November 14, 2019: Policemen strip two posters at the Keratsini Police Department. On 17 November 2019: Protesters denounce excessive police violence after the great anniversary of the Polytechnic. Journalist Marios Arabian is injured by a police attack. On November 21, 2019: MATs strip a student IEK while waiting for the bus on Bubulinas Street. A multitude of team forces him to be stripped and subjected to degrading control. One of them is alleged to say to him: "I have neither a badge nor a number. If I want to kill you now and send you naked to your mother." On December 6, 2019: After marching in the memory of Gregopoulou, an orgy of police repression. On December 18, 2019: Police forces invade the home of director Indare during the operation in Koukaki. It's a well-known story, I won't repeat it. On January 26, 2020, a police officer of the “DIA” team hits a nine-year-old child in the Menidi. At that time, Mr Chrysochoidis said that anyone who strikes unnecessarily has no place in the Greek Police. On February 24, 2020, a police officer is pulling a gun at the financial university yard. On 28 February 2020: Incredible scenes of police violence in Chios and Lesvos, following the decision of MMs to safeguard the construction of new closed refugee reception organisations. Nineteen lawyers file a lawsuit. On 29 April 2020: Motorcyclist allegedly accompanied by the Director of the Office of the Prime Minister, Dimitriadis, attacks and beats a motorcycle. You promised you'd investigate it and give it an answer. You never did. Now, that's all done before Alibizatou. We're coming to see what happened after Alivizato to see how much you took care of them. On 21 May 2020: Wood and provocations against the inhabitants of Tinos who protest for wind turbines. On May 24, 2020: Two 24-year-olds are under heavy police force near the Metro stop because one of them said to a police officer: "Why are you looking at me like that?" in Sepolis. On June 14, 2020: The twenty-six-year-old Vassilis Magos accepts a fierce beating because he protested against the burning of the garbage in Volos. On 9 July 2020: Attack of the DIA Group on Protestors against the Law on Restriction of Public Meetings. I have personal experience of this repressive and attacking orgy. On July 15, 2020: Wild anti-racist protest in Victoria Square. On September 12, 2020: Powers of MATs made use of flammable chemicals against certain refugees who, after the fire in Moria, asked to leave the island. On 7 October 2020: ELAS forces dissolve, drowning in chemicals, the great anti-fascist protest in front of the Appeals Court for the condemnation of the Golden Dawn. On 9 October 2020: Police forces use chemicals and take the hunt to the neighboring "Mall" students participating in mobilisation outside the Ministry of Education. On October 15, 2020: Minor students - this photo will be a reproach for your term of office at the Ministry, Minister - are arrested in a disciple course and held for four days in the GDR under unacceptable conditions. Finally, the revival of old student security at universities has recently been mentioned by official lips. There must be elementary wisdom. Don't think about it. Don't you dare. You will sow winds and reap storms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u15	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand your inability to refer to the substance of the question you have tabled. You describe a number of facts for which I have at times been put to Parliament and which I have given answers. I do not want to talk about a sterile confrontation, reminding you of the period when you were government, how you have acted, how you have not acted, how many chemicals you have thrown and what else you have done. I think it is a debate which does not really respond to the current circumstances and the situation that our country is going through. In view of what you referred to before, the arson of Mr Foyla's car and the disapproval of this action, I think that it is time for all the forces of the democratic arch to see the reality as it is and to put a definitive end to this violence, which comes from either one end or the other. However, I shall essentially confine myself to what you have asked, because I consider it very important, since you referred to the question of the conclusion of the Alibizatou Committee. In fact, as a Ministry, we have done much to improve and improve the framework under which the administrative examinations are carried out before Mr Alivizatos's points of view. Today's testimony to this conclusion comes to prove in the clearest way the in vain way of all those who have tried systematically for months now to extinguish a completely misleading account of the existence of a finding, which the political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection allegedly suffered to keep away from the lights of publicity. I would remind you once again that this conclusion is the result of a special committee, the establishment of which is solely due to the high sense of responsibility of both the civil leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection and the leadership of the Greek Police vis-à-vis the Greek police and society as a whole. As regards the content of the finding, it contains a number of labels and proposals. It is easy to understand from this committee the continued pursuit of the current political leadership of the Ministry of Transparency and Accountability within the Greek Police. More specifically, thanks to Law 4662/2020, standing proposals by the Citizens’ Co-rapporteur were met. According to this, the independent administrative authority of the Citizens' Counsel has been designated as a national mechanism for investigating arbitrariness in the Security Body, including the staff of the Greek Police, as well as the employees of the detention stores, with the main responsibility for collecting, recording, evaluating, investigating and promoting complaints relating to violations that occurred in the performance of their duties or misuse of their status. In addition, the delegation of inquiries is also envisaged to that authority. Likewise, the oral administrative examinations must be carried out by officers serving in a different address than by the person controlled or controlled. As far as the proposals contained in the conclusion under discussion are concerned, I would like to point out that we have already taken the necessary initiatives that are moving in the spirit of what they refer to in this regard. I would like to remind you at this point that at my head of the Greek Police in December 2009 a special distinguishing identification number was introduced for police officers serving in Order Restoration Sub-addresses, which is reflected on their helmets, while the obligation of the police in the other services to carry the distinguishing statements of their identity. This obligation has already been highlighted by the Headquarters of the Hellenic Police by a later order dated 22 December 2019 to all police services, which draws attention to the absolute compliance with the provisions on uniforms for officials of the Greek Police. In addition, we have already made the edited version of d.d.75/2020, which regulates issues of the use of surveillance systems, i.e. cameras for reception or recording of audio or video in public spaces with full respect always in the legal framework governing the right to respect for privacy and the protection of personal data. This initiative forms part of the spirit of the proposals for this conclusion, namely the prevention of, but also of, incidents of violence from wherever they come from. To conclude, I would like to stress that the cooperation of the Greek Police with the Citizens' Counsel, as is evidently understood by the above, has been further tightened up, and legislation is promoted to strengthen the independent authority with the appropriate scientific staff, which will help in this direction. The effort of all of us at the Ministry of Civil Protection is sincere and lasting in the direction of continuously improving the relationship of citizens' trust with the Greek Police. Ladies and gentlemen, the message we are sending is clear in every direction. No one enjoys some kind of peculiar immunity under the police uniform. In democracy, the effort to secure public order does not rebut absolute respect for human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move to the last timely question, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Reporting Committee and the General Balance sheet of the State and auditing the implementation of the State budget shall submit its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Software" specially designed or modified for the "development" or "use" of equipment specified in 5A001.a. or 5A002.b., as follows: ‘Following the State's Report for the financial year "Software" specially designed or modified for the "development" or "use" of equipment specified in 5A001.a., 5A002.b. or 5A002.b.; or ‘Following the Balance Sheet of the State for the We enter the first 114/2-11-2020 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector, Mera25, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The police force is now attacking the core of the family." Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, you and the Minister must resign. You've come to be beaten by a team of five-year-old children. Fourteen-year-old students should stay four days without any contact with their family in detention, because they were arrested on their way to the pan-educational rally, which the government was asking to take the measures so as not to get to the lockdown. You're telling us you've brought the conclusion of the Alvizat's report on police violence. Where is it, Minister? You haven't testified. I requested it a moment ago from the secretariat and they informed me that it had not been submitted. I hope we see it and read it, because six months later...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u19	We've filed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u20	Minister, you will answer. You will have the floor later to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u21	I wish he had been filed. You also know the contents. Six months took you to make it public, six months after our lasting complaints. Tell me something, Mr. Undersecretary. What have you been doing these six months to implement the finding? Which of the proposals of the finding - which we have not seen and which we cannot know, as it has never reached our hands - have you implemented? What have you done to implement the findings? How will this finding or any of your policies prevent us from having five-year-old children beaten up by a club? And an announcement came up. I want to be clear. My reproach is not against the police. The police are moving in the context where you, the political leadership, and you and Mr Chrysochide, define. Depending on the context you define, these people move. The responsibility is solely yours. Your answer for beating with a five-year-old gob, with the mother yelling and whistling on cameras that just two minor children crossing the adjacent spot, reported an disturbance in the neck and that it is an event that took place two hours later. We have protesters, we have on camera complaints about how the protesters only flew, that there was a drop of chemicals in the store, that the world was trapped and that they grabbed the kid from the girl, that they hit the kid and a girl, they were dragging people and the kids were crying and yelling. Another witness said there was no tension before the police took place. Mother called "the child, the child" etc. You really need to explain to us how these will change radically. To be honest, the only way to change is one: you and Mr Chrysochoidis resign today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u22	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already pointed out, in my position on other issues of responsibility of the Ministry of Civil Protection, the Greek Police acts within a strict, clearly predefined legal framework. Its mission, as well as its heavy responsibility as a critical arm of the state, which ensures the stability and defence of our democratic culture, requires that we treat ourselves in the public debate with due care and with absolute accuracy of our words. The individual issues raised in the current question are three. I am not going to abuse the time limits under which the parliamentary control procedure is being conducted to refer again to the findings of the Special Committee on the administrative investigation of disciplinary misconduct by the Greek Police staff, given that there has been a detailed report earlier. As regards the events that took place at an unplanned gathering, in the Lambrin region last Sunday, two minor children, who spent two hours with their relatives after the forced intervention of the police, were disturbed by the neck that their relatives told the competent authorities. The press release of the Directorate-General for Police of Attica, which I present today in the Minutes, in full terms of what has really happened, restores the truth. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I am here, therefore, before the House, to develop all the parameters that happened a few weeks ago in the center of Athens, removing all shadows that are attempting to leave around the handling of Greek Police officials in this case. The morning of October 15 was marked by a series of strike movements that took place in the centre of the capital and especially in Klathmonos Square, as well as in the Propylaea of the University of Athens. Members of numerous bodies and federations held meetings, while all necessary measures were taken by the forces of the Greek Police for order, safety and traffic, with a view to the undivided exercise of the right to assemble, but also to the maintenance of public order and security. A focus of tension was caused by a group of about a hundred people and their attacks with stones, marbles, molotovs to police forces on Amalia Avenue. This resulted in the arrest at 11:30, not of course of some passingman who was at the point, but one of the participants in this group of the minor, to whom you refer with your timely question. His arrest was made because of his unlawful actions and not, of course, because of his participation in this meeting, as you claim. He was directly transferred to the State Security Sub-Director, where an application for violation of the Criminal Code and Law 2168/1993 was made against him. At this point I would like to stress that, when the case-file was formed at the expense of the detainee, all the provisions provided for were complied with, pursuant to which both he and his mother were informed of his rights. I would also like to point out, once again, in the most unequivocal way, that all legal investigations, as well as the drafting of the required inquiries, have been carried out by the lawyer and mother of the minor, and that the relevant prosecutor has also been informed. The following day this minor and four others, who were also arrested for incidents in the context of these mobilisations, were brought before the Prosecutor of Minors of Athens, which referred them to the first interrogator of the Department of Minors of Athens. The interrogator ordered that their detention be maintained until reimported before it on 19 October at 11:30. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise emphatically that this minor has been detained in the specially designed detention areas of minors of the Sub-address, photographic display of which I am tabling in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] There he received visits, despite the circulation of clearly false information about the opposite, both by his attorney on 17-10-2020 at 12 noon and by his mother at 12.35' on the same day, and at 14.00' the following, 18-10-2020. Finally, following his re-importation before the interrogator, he was released on a restrictive basis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u24	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. As soon as the Alvizatou report has arrived, which states that it has identified reluctance from the investigating bodies of the Hellenic Republic. collaborate with the Citizens' Counsel, a division of the investigating police officers, which is manifested in a system of acceptance of impressive similar deposits by the police involved and the performance of much greater gravity in their testimony than in their citizens' statements, without any justification. Also, a systematic delay in the submission of documents requested by the Counsel, non-compliance with the conclusions of the Counsellor, inadequate justification of the disciplinary decisions of the Greek institutions, especially in the field of the investigation of the racist movement. That is why you did not publish it, Minister. That's why it took you six months.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u26	You don't read it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u27	Anything you want to read. And I hope they're being given direct to publicity anyway. Indeed, as Mrs Bakadima has reminded you, there is an obligation, and by your own decision, for the discretion to be visible, that the number of every police officer who attempts during events, etc. be visible. It is common place that this does not apply. It does not apply, Minister. So, I don't understand why you brought this to the House. Indeed, Mr Alivizatos asks for it in his proposals. You have not applied it so far. On the contrary, we may see on the helmets expressions and phrases that refer to the Golden Dawn. This is the reality of police, but it's not the problem with men and women of police. They work within you, the political leadership is in place. With a different political leadership, with a different policy framework, the men and women of the Greek Police would be "law and order", as you say. You want there to be police brutality! You want there to be a violation of citizens' civil rights to intimidate! You want the family to be intimidated to be near any demonstration of protest against the social consequences of your policies! You want parents to be intimidated so that they don't dare dare to protest about the conditions in the schools, which you are now shutting them down! You want this. It's your central policy. I therefore ask for your resignation and Mr Chryssohoid.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Economou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u29	There is no doubt that the image of a minor being brought before the competent judicial officers for crimes committed is not a pleasant development for anyone, especially for the officials of the Greek Police, who, unfortunately, are faced with minors who, through their violations, bring to light a series of social problems that exist every day around us. It does not, however, benefit from being omitted, nor from being tampered with, critical aspects of this issue. It does not promote, through this approach, the monitoring of the activities of each government, nor does it promote public information. The facts once again are specific, leaving no room for misinterpretation. With clear, consolidated institutional framework for the exercise of the right of assembly of citizens, the Greek police forces, as its guarantors, have strictly defined responsibilities and take the necessary measures on a case-by-case basis for its areas of responsibility, such as public order and security. It does not serve anyone to rule out the fact that the Greek police forces are legally obliged to intervene against every person responsible for committing criminal offences. The implementation of the law is not an option, but an obligation for the police personnel. Furthermore, it is necessary to stress that the cooperation and information of the competent official of the public prosecutor's office is permanent and intimate, as the officials of the Greek Police take pre-examination action under the direction and mandates of the Greek Police. Exactly these procedures were implemented in this case, and specifically the Greek Police acted under the direction of the Prosecutor of Minors. In the reports you made on the content of the Alivizatos Committee's findings, if you had followed me in answer to the previous question, you would have realised that our ministry preceded the Alivizatos committee's comments. In any case, however, as I have stressed, we have created it, highlighting with this our political sensitivity and the obligation that the staff of the Greek Police really have to be accountable, within a regime that guarantees full respect for human rights. As I said before, under the uniform there is no immunity of any kind. Therefore, we do not repeat the same and do not blame and responsibilities where they really do not exist. We have from the very beginning made every effort in the past to make all possible efforts to ensure that disciplinary control is carried out in the Greek Police to correct and correct at a very rapid rate. Instead of trying to compose a narrative that has nothing to do with the facts, it may be better to look for and work on the deepest causes of some young people of this age to take such illegitimate action. Such an approach will undoubtedly help to bring us closer to cases like the one we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept that there is a solution to the meeting?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-06-S1-commons.u31	With the agreement of the House at 10.59 p.m., the sitting is closed for Monday, 9 November, 2020, at 15.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
