ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 10-11-2020, the minutes of its meeting of Tuesday 10 November 2020, including the debate and the vote of the bills:]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like a few communications to this House. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade submitted its reports on the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: A. JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Portuguese Republic on cooperation in the field of tourism’; B. Other: ‘Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Republic of Kazakhstan for cooperation in the field of tourism’; and C. Other: ex II. ‘Creation of the Cooperation Protocol to Tourism Cruise between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Tourism of the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Ministry of Energy, Trade, Industry and Tourism of the Republic of Cyprus’. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the updates of Friday 13 November 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Vassilis Vassilis Kokkalis, Member of the SYRIZA, on the subject of 'Biodiesel production, distribution and energy crops', by No 123-6/11-2020. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 130/9-11-2020 of the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr Georgios Kamine to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: 'Double lockdown prisoners in prisons', for eight months - the health of detainees and officials in direct danger'. 3. The question by No. 141/9-11-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP Lesvos, Maria Konnaka, to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "Direct and full compensation for the earthquake affected in Samos and compensation for damages - Measures to provide substantial support and relief for workers and professionals". 4. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arseni, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Extremely expensive and ineffective the Recycling and Composting Engineering Factory (EMAK) of Gender". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 124/6-11-2020 of the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Alexandros (Alexis) Gift to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Creating a targeted programme of non-refundable support for the focus sector". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 131/9-11-2020 topical question by MP Arta of the Change Movement Mr Christos Gokas to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Organisation of Urban Transport". 3. The 142-9-11-2020 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki, to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "The construction of a new school complex of the Single Professional Gymnasium - Lyceum and the Special Training and Training Laboratory (EEAEEC) in the Municipality of Heraklion". 4. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arseni, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "In the status of working hostage, workers in the management of protected areas, IMPs". 5. The question asked by MP Halkidiki of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance Mr.Syrias Malamas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The military is sinking and the government is not moving towards the protection of the village and the residents' property". 6. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on "To be hunted and amateur fishing in the category of sports abroad and allowed following a SMS mission." 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 143/9-11-2020 topical question of the Greek Communist Party MEP Nicholas Papastastasis to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "The problem of housing for the officials of the Santorini Airport's Fire Service." 8. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arsenis, Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Governmental reward for illegality in Io'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the three questions to be debated today. We begin with the first question under number 121/3-11-2020 of the first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nantias) Giannakopoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "At the beginning, the taking of responsibility for the health and protection of pet animals. What role does the central veterinary services play in the health and protection of kept and stray pet animals?’ The current question will be answered by the Minister of Development and Food present, Mr. Mavroudis Vorides. Here, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have asked you this timely question, because we are aware - in fact - of a pandemic - of reports from leaks, communication from operators, how the transport to the Ministry of the Interior of the Department for the Protection of Animals and Other Animals of the Directorate-General for Veterinary Affairs of your Ministry of Health is being proposed. Along with this, Minister, it is also stated that the competences for the management and operation of the online electronic database for the labelling and registration of pet animals and their owners - and you certainly know this as a competent Minister - are fully accessible by the police, by the veterinary regions and by the municipalities. I would then like to tell you two about the reactions of the institutions. We are not forgetting, Minister, that the Prime Minister, as early as 2018, had announced the modernisation of the legal framework for pets, namely the transfer of their online electronic logistics from the Ministry of Rural Development to the Ministry of Interior. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At that time, the Panhellenic Federation of Geotechnical Officials with a press release had told it - and had explained it - that this leads to the misuse of this database, since it is used for traceability - the documentation, rather, of traceability - and the monitoring of important zoonoses - such as rabies, which reappeared in 2012, or is also used for vaccinations of wild animals, especially in northern Greece and elsewhere. I'm going to give you this press release, so you can keep it in mind. He also informed that the veterinary services in Greece, as well as in the majority of the Member States of the European Union, are all in operation within the respective ministries of agriculture in these other countries. And that's in the record, which I'm going to testify to. The Directorate-General for Veterinary Affairs of the Ministry for Rural Development and Food has, moreover, been designated by its establishment as the central veterinary authority, which in accordance with the Directives, coordinates and supervises, Minister, the implementation of the programmes for the management of stray pets and dominant animals. I will present to you the instructions of the world organisation, which are saying exactly that. Also in 2011 the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, under parliamentary control, had replied that the programmes for the collection and management of pet stray animals are linked to the programmes for the control of zoonoses and that is why veterinary supervision is required and therefore - the Ministry of Rural Development then responded - no technical or scientific reason exists to remove this competence. I shall present this answer to the Minister for Rural Development in mind. In another question, Mr Vorides, under number 63/31-8-2011, I do not know if anything reminds you, because you also signed it, as a Member of the European Parliament, at the time - the then Deputy Minister for Rural Development, Mr Drivelegas, states in his reply: 'The authority to manage pet animals, like in all European countries, belongs to the relevant Ministry of Agriculture, where the veterinary services are.'
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u5	Ask the question, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u6	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'll testify to this, too, so I can freshen your memory. And I move on to the question, Mr President. The subject of the computerised database was voted on by the PASOK government under the office of Mr Scandalidis, and even our country, our country, is one of the eleven - one of the twenty-eight - who have this specific basis. What do I mean by all this? What I mean to say is that what you are going to do is a European originality. You improvise and improvise dangerous! And the question is this. Why, Minister for Rural Development, Mr Voridis, contrary to what you said and believed nine years ago, do you now accept that the competence and computer database for the recording of stray animals and kept pet animals should be removed from your Ministry of the Interior? You say you want better control and supervision...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u7	Ms. Giannakopoulou, I can't leave you any more. I left you too much time. Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u8	I'm closing, Mr. President. You said you'd be more tolerant.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u9	But for two minutes, you've spoken for six. It can't do any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u10	You said you wanted to better control the municipalities. Of course, that's right. There are many deficits in their management.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u11	Good, the Minister will answer you. Now you tell him what to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u12	So what are you going to do? Why do you operate in secret? Is there anything you want to hide? Why don't you make a complete plan? Why don't you consult institutions and parties?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u13	Good. We're done, Mrs. Giannakopoulou. Minister, you have the floor, in the relative comfort of time too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u14	I don't think I'm gonna need it, Mr. President. I'll stay in my three-minute. First. I will first speak on the subject of order, which you have raised, to deal with this, although, in my opinion, it is the bad argument to support your opinion. In any case, however, you have put it. On matters of order, shall we end this as follows? The Prime Minister has electionically formulated his position. Its position was known to the Greek people and this position was voted on by the Greek people. And, indeed, with very strong legitimacy, to move in any direction we choose to move. So we're running out of order? So why the Prime Minister chose to say this was something that, obviously, was involved and was the subject of public debate and public debate. To be a little more productive in this debate, however, the point of this position is obviously that we are interested in strengthening the welfare of pet animals. I also think you will agree with me, Madam President, that once the system of management of undominated animals has been passed on to the municipalities, there is objectively a link here, a relationship, to the Ministry of the Interior. Also, the funding that we are currently giving - and that has not been given for too long - goes for the creation of these shelters by the Ministry of Interior. So there are some data. I understand your contribution, which I value and appreciate positively, to the thoughts of a dialogue which has begun, which I also follow with the documents which are submitted and where, as you know, there are, of course, strong and firm opinions. I think the important thing in this debate - and this is the point of the Prime Minister's intervention - is that an effective system for the management of undominated animals, which is effectively supervised, must be created. I think that at the moment we are, with all the frustration of the previous period and the considerable funding we have made today in order to make these shelters, we are not satisfied. I don't know if he's a content man. We are not satisfied. We are not satisfied with the fact that few municipalities, compared to all the municipalities, have built shelters and, therefore, there is no effective management of undominated animals, but we are not very satisfied with the way in which the existing shelters are operated and managed. So we have to do something to improve it. You will allow me to tell you that discussing competences, in my opinion, is a very small part of the overall effort that we must do. And you should know - and I close my prototype, Mr President, and I thank you for the understanding - that the view that we must approach must be that one, namely that we will have more effective supervision and control in the management system of undominated animals so that, in the end, what today is a difficult situation to reach a point where we are satisfied with this. The involvement of the Ministry of Interior in this, the mechanisms of effective monitoring and control of municipalities, will all be a framework for discussion which will be wider and larger, a small part of which is the subject of competences. And to reassure you and respond directly to your question, which is "will you not follow the basic international standards?", we answer: No, we will follow the basic international standards.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u15	Mrs. Giannakopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u16	Your answer is very interesting, Minister. Indicative of the government's arrogance. Indicative! I asked you a specific question and you said that it was the Prime Minister's election commitment. Question: With whom did the Prime Minister ask an election? I'm asking clearly. Has he consulted the agencies? Has there been broad consultation with all those involved, against what is true throughout the European Union? Is that what you're telling us? Did Mr Mitsotakis make a decision beforehand that responsibility will be left from the Ministry of Rural Development, as it is in all the other European countries, and that he will go to the Ministry of the Interior? Because, yes, there is a problem, we all recognise it, and it has to be solved. And you tell us that this is the solution, because all of a sudden, the divine enlightenment of Greece has come against what is happening in all the other countries? It's so simple. We are a country of the European Union. We are, the Change Movement, and you are, European forces. Is that the European conception of things you have, the improvisation of the Balkan type, Mr Voridis? Because that's what you're doing! I have given you very specific evidence, not that something someone said and moved forward. So I'm telling you, and I'm asking specific questions. In the Ministry of Interior from which competent veterinary scientists will be monitored at the base on which you want to send the basis? By who? It's such a concrete question. As regards the improvement of the base, the upgrading of the base. This base, I stressed, and you know it better than I do, is public. Someone could come in. And the municipalities come in, too. Because I read very carefully and the interview you gave. This is a public base. Therefore, it should be managed, as in all other countries, by the Ministry of Rural Development and veterinary services and for reasons of public health. And from there on, the issues you have rightly raised and there are - and first of all we say that the system needs to be improved - can be solved through synergies. Do we need more resources? Of course they do. Can you give them one? Of course you can, and there can be synergies. Does this mean that there must be a transfer of powers? Because that's just a communal trick. At least I understand that. There is a major issue, so serious, which is about the well-being of pet stray animals, and you tell us that as magically speaking, because, against European data, you will carry it from one service to another, the problem will be solved! This is a completely communication way of dealing with serious issues. So what needs is this transport being done, since the welfare, veterinary public health, animal health, is monitored by the Ministry of Veterinary Affairs of the Ministry of the Environment? I wonder, how exactly do you think about it? I am sure all of this is inconsistent, Mr Minister, with the image of a normality of a state of service. And because it is very suspicious of all this haste and the prelude, which you are showing, especially in a pandemic time, about transferring competences, I honestly wonder what interests it serves. What interests does it serve? Because certainly the welfare of animals, which is so important, do not see it served. In support of this, I would like to say to you - and I will present this to you - that of Mrs Kyriakidou, on behalf of the Commission, to a question from the Member of the European Parliament, namely your party, that the committee supports the work of the World Organisation for Animal Health, the guidelines for the control of the populations of stray dogs, the way and the way it is done by veterinary services. So the big thing is that we are all openly and clearly defending a progressive, innovative legislative framework and strengthening it and complementing it, which, unfortunately, we do not see on your part. I would therefore expect you to be much more open to such a serious issue, to submit it to a public consultation. You yourself, on your own responsibility, open up a consultation with all stakeholders and all parties, so that we do not lead to communication flares, but to an essential solution to such a serious issue!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u17	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u18	Madam President, I think you are committing the classic error of reasoning petitio principii in the reception of the person concerned. You have come here to tell us that we have decided to transfer responsibility. I have told you that what is happening is this: we are considering as a small part of an overall action that will produce results for animal welfare, which, if any, powers, from which, to be informed. Why, you see, now, we always need to do the basic job, so we don't have to do communal terrestrials. Animals and Animals Protection Department: This is the part that deals with this issue. It has thirteen powers, as determined by the Presidential Decree, by the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry. What are you talking about, which you think we're carrying? Because I didn't tell you anything about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u19	For the electronic platform...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u20	Why have you received it all as data? That we carried the department, that we carried the platform, that we carried it and took it somewhere where it is, etc. All of this, why is it data in your thoughts and, indeed, bail against a regulation, which we have not done? Why are you bailing? What's wrong with you? Let's see.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u21	For the leaks, Mr. Voridis...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u22	Let's see! What happened to you? There is no room for opposition, and now you must oppose a hypothetical issue, in which you think we have already legislated, while we have not, that we have already been placed, while we have not? You have taken all of this as data and put it against them. Let's see what I told you. I told you that we would sit down and see an effective OTA control and surveillance mechanism, to see what's going on there. Do you object to that? I also told you that the debate on competences opens only in the context of the wider debate on effective control and supervision of TAs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u23	Are the bodies lying, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u24	Mrs. Yannakopoulou, you don't have the floor. What are you doing now? Please do not write anything in the Minutes than Mrs Giannakopoulou says. Here's the Minister, and he's answering you responsibly, and you report rumors of actors. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u25	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u26	Ms. Giannakopoulou, you know, I can impose other things. When the President speaks, you will not ignore him when, in fact, you are tolerating seven minutes! Continue, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. However, if you have any questions about the bodies and their positions, please put them to the bodies. This is where you ask the government. I'm not an agent to explain why I issued the alpha or the beta announcement. You're going to the agencies, you're going to tell them...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u28	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u29	I do not know what you mean'say lies'. I've read the announcements. Entities are involved in a dialogue in which they want to say their views on this issue. They're good. They're telling their opinion. You're asking the government, my colleague. You ask the government! The government is in place? Did you hear me say that the same authority is leaving, that everyone is leaving, that the department is leaving? Have you heard me say that? Why do you take it as a request? If you asked your question differently and said "Listen, there is this public debate, what do you think?" I would tell you what I think. You tell me, "You have done it, you have done it, you have broken everything" and I have done nothing. So let our thoughts evolve. We must, however, set the criteria in this debate. Listen, this government, in this year, has done things to protect animals, which have not been done for too many years. We banned the slaughter of the subspecies in Greece. Until yesterday it was allowed. Now he's banned. We banned the export of subspecies for slaughter. Until yesterday it was allowed. Now it's done. Torture became a felony. And of course I would like to thank, once again, the whole of Parliament, which has voted and supported this position. That is right, but also the government's legislative initiative. It wouldn't have happened otherwise. Because I see Mrs. Fotio that she wants to pluck it all herself. I therefore welcome Parliament's attitude, but do not question the government's position on the issues of well-being, topical issues. This is how we will approach this issue as well. I'm telling you again what the question is, though. It is a question of finding an effective system for the management of non-dominant people. Because now, Mrs. Giannakopoulos, we're not happy with the system as it works. So we need an effective OTA monitoring and surveillance mechanism. Because they have the management system. They're doing their job. They are the ones that are every day rubbed in this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u30	And they pay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u31	And they pay. So here as a central state, which is of interest to us, we do not want to see a static situation, nor do we say 'how nice it is'. It's not nice. It's not nice, it's a lot of hardship and a lot of work and a lot of road. In this context, I say again, which is the great debate, we welcome every contribution from both the institutions and you. I'm recording your position. However, do not consider the government's position to be given. The position of the government will be expressed in a rational and perfect way, when we choose to express it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u32	You are clear. We move on to the next two questions which will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Domna - Maria Michaelidou. The second question will be discussed under No 135/9-11-2020 in the first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Direct restoration of the illegally circumcised allowances for disabled people". Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Secretary, Mrs Michaelidou, we also had an attempt to resolve the issue by telephone yesterday, which I very much appreciate. I think it is very important for the citizens to know that, in addition to the efforts made here in public, we are trying to resolve matters at private level too. In fact, we are talking about two topics: the reduction of the scientific allowance for blind persons and the reduction in half of the privileged disability allowance if the disabled receives an additional orphan's pension. The main issue here is that this cut is illegal. That's not what I'm saying. It says the recent 15-page opinion of the Citizens' Counselor in October, which was filed in the appeal by the clubs of the blind to the illegal and unjust decision of the Ministry. I read to you how the Citizens' Counsel ends: "Since this document refers to the Secretary-General's decision, it neither intended nor could it lay down new rules of law. It does not commit any individual administrative act based on that document, instead of the applicable binding legal rules on which it is reversed. According to the above, it is non-legislative.’ That's what the Citizen's Counsel says. We really should not have to come here to have this debate. It is clear that we are talking about an illegal decision and an illegal application of a decision, which cannot go beyond the legal framework laid down by our law or constitution on laws, order of laws, joint ministerial decisions and Mr. A decision by the Secretary-General cannot violate all this. So the question is why, while we know that this procedure is clearly illegal, do you allow the Ministry to go to court, rather than replace - which you have the institutional right and the power - this illegal act of the administration, which involves, at the end of the day, people who have too many problems - we will also discuss them below - and not many, namely the budgetary burden is very small? With the President's tolerance to describe a little what these fellow citizens are. First of all, Article 21 of the Constitution states that disabled persons have the right to enjoy measures ensuring their autonomy, professional integration and participation in the social and economic and political life of the country. So people born or acquired harm in the course of their lives become disabled by social and state structures that exclude them. Disability is a social treaty, not a medical problem in practice, as it appears from other countries, and as such the state commits itself to a number of policies. We would like this debate today, Mrs Michailidou, as we spoke yesterday, to be about how we can create an accessible society for everyone and all. In this case, with the disabled, blind lawyers, how will we have procedure in the Greek courts that are in accessible format, a form, for a crippled lawyer, who will arrive there with the public transport media, without any problem - as happens in other countries - who will have a sound warning to stops, through roads that will have roads with sound signs, wide sidewalks, which will allow him or his dog to move, fellow citizens who will know if they need to help him, who will return to his office in the same way and can move into accessible mortgages, taxes and any other state service they need. It will be navigated on accessible websites and will generally live independently, without the need for assistance it is required to pay daily. This gap covers, in essence, the allowance that is abolished. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I call for little tolerance, Mr President. I'll use less time in my dentistry. Let's go to what's the charge that's covered by the half-preferential allowance. I'm talking about the disabled receiving an orphan's pension. These are people who have never been able to work in their lives, who, for the vast majority of them, have lived their whole lives with their parents as caregivers. Now that they have been alone, orphans, without any other provision from the state, are telling them that if they were to receive before the orphanage, which is EUR 200 to EUR 300 a month, they will now receive half of the allowance, which means EUR 364 and EUR 300 the orphanic, totaling EUR 664, that is less than the entire benefit they are entitled to. We're talking about fellow citizens who take the orphan's as indirect insurers. They're incapable of working. They receive the orphan's pension that is part of the deceased parent's pension. It does not exceed half the amount of the unemployed's allowance, without taking into account the exception guaranteed by two Circulars of the Ministry of Health of 2001. They are people who are entirely dependent. They can't do it alone. And if you want, the reason why there is no corresponding legal action is because in this case you cut this benefit to people who are impossible, they are the most marginalised disabled, they are the most vulnerable citizens, they have no way of being informed of the procedure. Most people don't have access to computers and internets to initiate appeal proceedings. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u34	Good, thank you. The State Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, we talked yesterday, the truth is that. And we spoke yesterday because the truth is that, taking today's news of today's timely questions, I felt a little surprise that I carried you yesterday. And who was that? It was of course not the fact that I saw a question from you. You are, after all, a very active Member of Parliament and always documented and very well put your questions. My surprise was precisely because, reading your question, it seemed familiar to me. With a simple search on the file of parliamentary questions in my office, I understand why. I'd answered her. And, indeed, I had answered it not to another Member, but to you. So we have answered this question in this Parliament on 17 June. In fact, in your question - since I have answered you orally to Parliament in this question - you say that since April you have not received any suggestion about the Ministry's position on this matter. So, rather, this conversation we're going to play today, you've forgotten about it. Anyway, we're here today. There is no Rules of Procedure in Parliament to urge the repetition of the same questions. But what I have explained to you yesterday is that I think that, especially for a responsible MEP like you, it is a pity to miss a question of parliamentary scrutiny, especially from the point where none of the elements for which you ask yourself are changed. I'm going back to your question. I begin by stressing that our Government, with what it has done for our fellow humans with disabilities, has proved to be at their side and located alongside them essentially and with strong help, especially during those months of the pandemic. In particular, in these difficult conditions of pandemic, we have taken every measure to protect them and facilitate them. Fortunately, I have a question after Mrs. Fotio, so we will go to them in greater detail. However, for example, I would like to mention the following: We have incorporated workers with disabilities, those who are benefiting from open care structures, regardless of their age. We have ensured, in cooperation with the OAED, for the first time that beneficiaries of social tourism programmes with children of AMEA are not excluded this year if they have received social tourism last year. Together with the National Deaf Foundation within the Koroni period, we installed thirty relay stations, so that our deaf fellow citizens can be served mainly in hospitals, in collaboration with the Ministry of Health, where we started this facility. It is also very important that we have extended for three months the payment of disability pensions and allowances, due to the suspension at the time of the meetings of the CSDP health committees. In these days, which were imposed by the second Lockdown and, of course, in consultation and detailed and thorough searches with the relevant committee for infectious diseases, we decided that we would be able to keep the centres of two-day and day-to-day care of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the CSR, CSRs, CSRs, CSRs, open, so that this valuable assistance can continue to be provided to the children and their own families as well. All of this is an undisputed witness that, as a government, we are ensuring that the state performs its duty toward our fellow citizens, especially the weakest. I could extend myself to the National Disability Action Plan, which was in consultation until a few weeks ago, but I understand that time is not enough. I shall confine myself to pointing out, however, that the relevant Minister, the Minister of State, Mr Gerapitris, has drawn up the most comprehensive and more detailed disability support plan for our fellow citizens, a real section for society and the entire disability movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u36	Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, I think your answer is more appropriate to Mrs. Fotio's question. I shall focus a little on the questions relating to this question, which are, once again, - and I shall repeat - the abolition, in essence, of the scientific allowance for disabled pensioners and the reduction in half of the privileged disability allowance if the disabled receives an orphan. I will insist, because I would like you to respond to that. It is true that in the summer we had had a corresponding debate. In a similar question you answered that the checks carried out by OPEKA in the scheme concluded that these allowances were excessive and that is why you are cutting them down and that your objective was the legality and equivalence of the beneficiaries of the benefits. Since then, however, all the disabled associations and the Citizens' Counselor who have been disobedient to this have come to you. That is why I would particularly like you to give us information on what you have said. How many are retired scientists who are legally continuing to work, basically, lawyers, whose allowance was cut? Why do you consider them the highest pensioners? What is the total amount you save by sharing the poverty of the excluded, which your non-inclusive state - our state, of course - makes social margins? There are registries, books of costs, presentations of courts, legal services contracts. Check which professionals practice the profession and restore unlawful and unfair cuts, for reasons of equal treatment with the lawyers seen. I will insist on the heart of this matter. It is based on an illegal act. The Citizens' Counsel tells us that the Secretary-General's decision is illegal, as it cannot lay down new rules of law, it does not commit. And any individual administrative action based on this, in this document, instead of the applicable binding laws and legal rules that this document is reversed, is manifestly non-legal. That is the essence of the matter. After the decision of the Citizens' Counsel, I invite you to abolish this decision and restore these allowances and, indeed, retroactively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too. Mrs. Michaelidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, you are once again using the term 'unlawful cuts' in your question. In fact, you have also referred to the report by the Citizens' Counselor, which, of course, the services will take serious account of. You mention as illegal cuts the issue of receiving blind scientists and so-called 'orphan pensions'. I repeat: we had discussed this in detail and there has been no evidence that has changed. I tried as much as I could to explain it to you. In short, I refer to the debate that we held on 17 June and I return: 'The reduction in the amount of the allowance to which you refer is due to a precise, detailed implementation of the principle of legality, i.e. the rules of law in force, which deal with specific cases, which have been identified in the context of administrative control and cross-checking'. So what do I do? I would remind you: Our government, the Ministry, I personally have never changed in the regulatory framework anything. There is no change of regulation, no change of case law. The former Deputy Minister is here. He acted exactly with the same regulatory rules. At this level, nothing has changed. What has changed, however, is that the competent body, OPEKA, has started to carry out legality checks, so that a more effective use is made for the funding of the benefits provided, but also to ensure transparency, good administration and equal treatment of beneficiaries. Since the online cross-border in February 2020, these problems have been identified - in total, the following problems: The vision allowance is granted to about sixteen thousand beneficiaries. Of these, the two hundred and seventy-eight beneficiaries received the allowance of EUR 697 a month as lawyers who proved to be lawful and were also beneficiaries of a pension from a social security institution. There, we have three counts. We have - if you want - the blind lawyers, who are pre-retirement and practice their profession and get the legal scientist's allowance blindly. There is the category of retired blind lawyers who do not work. There is also the charge of blind pensioners working for lawyers. So in the first category, the one of the blind lawyers working, they get 100% of the allowance and 100%, of course, of the value of their work. In the second category, which is the category of blind pensioners who do not work, they receive 100% of the pension and 50% of the allowance. In the third category, which is the category of blind pensioners working, they receive 100% of the pension, 50% of the allowance, as well as in the second category I have explained to you now, and, of course, all the work they have done. So this category why, why - and that is why there is case law - should be dealt with differently from the legislator? The legislator treats it as the second category, in which, because of 100% of the pension, the allowance is cut by 50% and, of course, they also have all the income from the workplace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u40	We arrive at the last question for today, in the first question under number 227/8-10-2020, of the circle of petitions and questions of MP B3' South Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Theanos Fotio to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Tens of thousands of disabled people in God's mercy in the midst of pandemic, without pre-primary disability benefits which they deserve, due to tragic government failures". Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u41	Madam Secretary, a month ago, just on 8 October, thirty-nine SYRIZA Members tabled a question on a major problem created by the first lockdown to the disabled by suspending the operation of CSRs. That is why you have not answered the question of thirty-nine Members in a timely, but in new circumstances today, in a second lockdown. Then, in October, we asked you and we had the data that twenty - six thousand four hundred welfare workers, or about six thousand five hundred, were expected to be examined by the CEPD and lost in the midst of a pandemic of benefits and allowances that they were asking for because of your own oligopoly. Of these thirteen thousand six hundred demanded an extension of the disability allowance already being re-examined by the CEPD, while the twelve thousand eight hundred disabled were for the first time seeking an allowance from the OPCD, apparently considering from the CEPD. The problem has been mentioned five months ago in the House. In other words, when you voted in favour of the MDG in May on the first steps in Lockdown, we then proposed that you give the benefit directly to the people who first applied for and who had a complete file, because they are extremely vulnerable people, are particularly affected by the pandemic - we all know that - they are generally insecure and have no other income, neither are they nor their family, while the majority of applications are statistically approved in 75%. So the cost of the wrongly paid would be small by month and we told you that and then. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, you will give me some time. You answer us then that you would have handled all these cases in June. You did not obviously hear us and, as we predicted, you did not deal with them in June. On the contrary, the problem has increased and the disabled and their families are left without any aid. What's going on now? What is the problem for a month now that you have not responded to the thirty-nine Members, with a second active lockdown? And, please, let's be a little specific to what I'm asking. Don't tell me generally what you've done for the disabled, as you said to Mr. Arsenis. Now tell me all of it. We say that, with the data we have, the total number of outstanding requests for benefit for disability benefits is thirty-seven-and-a-half thousand. I mean, that number was ejected. Why? Because what's ready for the CCP, the complete electronic file, is twenty-three and a half thousand. However, for the first time fourteen thousand applications were added to them in the OPEKA system, because the second wave of the pandemic has caused huge problems in the day-to-day operation of hospitals, Mr President and Minister, so that the disabled cannot complete their dossiers with the medical diagnosis they receive from hospitals for their illness. And now, because doctors and nurses, as you know, give a huge battle, very unequal, and with great sacrifice and without enough personnel and by ICU, and they suppress a large part of their daily off-shore operation, there is this story and suddenly found for the first time 14 thousand semi-finished files. And I don't see how they'll be filled with the second lockdown. So today, with the new, second, lockdown, my questions are updated as follows, Minister: First, will you give solutions to these thirty and a half thousand disabled? In particular, we suggest that you extend the allowance to the disabled who have complete files and submit for the renewal of the disability allowance as long as the pandemic lasts. This is 12,000 people disabled, with the information we have. Let me know if there's any other evidence. Secondly, will those disabled people submit a complete file for the first time with no need to pass through CEPD for as long as the pandemic lasts? With our evidence, there are eleven thousand four hundred of them disabled. Thirdly, will you strengthen and multiply the CESR health committees now? You are making this judgment an opportunity to multiply the KDP health committees now that you will have time. Fourthly, will you digitally equip the CSRs to carry out remotely, without the physical presence of the disabled, issues that concern them, other than obviously the crisis, the physical presence of the health committees? Fifthly, will you restore the serious malfunctions presented in the OPEK's electronic system? Sixth, will you proceed to the extension throughout the country of the disabled’s electronic file for the reimbursement of the disability allowance in an electronic way? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President. Seventeen, will you give a solution to the fourteen thousand disabled who have incomplete dossiers, given that hospitals are overloaded with CIVID disease -19 and cannot give them the necessary diagnosiss?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u42	Okay, I said from the outset there will be tolerance, because there are three questions, but that, Theanoux, was a question! It was not a timely question, it was a timely question. A corresponding tolerance will exist to you, Madam Secretary. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Fotou, I'll try to be specific. You said that before Mr Arsenis gave general answers to Mr Arsenis. I would remind you that this is the second time that it has brought us to Parliament to answer exactly the same question. I responded specifically and in general. Thank you for not coming to ask us a second time for the same questions in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u44	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u45	No, that's exactly what I'm saying, you don't. You have, of course, seven questions. I don't know if we're gonna make it through the time we have to answer all sevens. However, I will try to be precise and represent the entire Ministry of Labour, because, as you know, they are CSR issues concerning both the Minister and the other State Secretary. And I think that more information can be obtained from our fellow citizens and from the rest of the Members of Parliament from the Minutes, because there are many figures and figures, but my answer too. You know that the protection of our fellow citizens with disabilities is a priority. And the truth is that, especially in the first phase of the lockdown, there was a direct and effective policy to address the problems arising from the strict measures taken to prevent the spread and dispersion of the coronary. In today's question you raise a number of questions - seven questions - about the measures we have taken as a government, especially the issues of the uninterrupted payment of disability benefits, which I shall try to develop very specifically. I start from the points containing quantitative and numerical data, as I think these are the keys to the proper imaging of the situation and to avoid the creation of false impressions. As far as our disabled people are concerned, in addition to health protection measures, but also because of them, as reasonably understood, a number of issues, with more urgent two, had to be addressed immediately: firstly, the failure to stop paying allowances, where there was no possibility of the planned disability review and, secondly, the adoption of new applications. The solution to the extension was the one that was chosen, precisely in order to protect the health of the applicants, but also to secure financially at this juncture. In your question you are talking about twenty-six thousand four hundred outstanding applications and, in fact, these twenty-six thousand four hundred analyzing numbers as follows: thirteen thousand six hundred applications are for renewal and twelve thousand eight hundred new applications are for approval. However, this does not agree with the relevant agencies and bodies and let me here become more detailed, as I said before. OPEKA from 1 to 2020 until October paid a total of twenty-three thousand three hundred eighty-seven disability benefits through the extension measure. According to the most recent data from the HICP and the e-ECSC and CEPOL, 10 000 five hundred disability benefits were still to be granted in October. Of these three thousand eighty-eighteen were cases already examined by a CSDP sanitary committee. Also, the three thousand seven hundred eighty-nine cases have been put into programming for examination within November, while the five hundred ninety - nine interested parties objected, from which ninety - two had been examined. Therefore, from the total of twenty-three thousand three hundred and eighty-seven cases in extension, 88% has been passed by a health committee, pending two thousand eight hundred and thirty-one cases. In other words, 88% of the total has been checked and 12% is pending. What now has to do with the new benefits applications, again the data you use are inconsistent with those of our services. I would like to present them to you in detail, too. From 1-42020 to 1-10-2020 they were submitted to the OPEKA by thirteen thousand two new applications, about six thousand three hundred, at 47%, pending for consideration by the primary health care CEPOL. To sum up, therefore, the number of twenty-six thousand unfinished cases is not clear either. The pending cases of new applications are only 1/3 of what you claim, a total of nine thousand. However, this is why, Mrs Fotio, is useful and parliamentary control is beneficial. It helps all concerned, you, us, our services, our fellow citizens to determine the facts. The examination of these applications continues at the same pace intensified and their liquidation is a priority for us and our services.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u46	Here, Mrs. Fotio, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u47	Parliamentary control and dialogue are of course useful only in terms of parity. What do I mean, Madame Undersecretary? You told me how many applications were handled by the CSR. I told you how many applications are pending today at the OPEKA. Because, as you know, the files that are ready and ready to sit and wait for the OPEKA to go to CEDEFOP and what the CEDEFOP did. Madam Secretary, you are not right about what you have answered and I told you very specific figures, which are currently pending in the OPEKA. OPEKA is a great body under your authority. To go and ask the numbers today and tell me again, because I know today from the OPEKA that thirty and seven thousand files are pending, of which, I repeat, the fourteen thousand cannot be completed because of the history of hospitals. Do you know that or do you don't know that the hospitals can no longer examine the disabled? In fact, that's a large number and I personally and with all my honesty I'm telling you that I don't know how we're going to solve this problem. I'm going into your trouble, too. I don't know how we're gonna solve this problem with the new lockdown. You answer me as if we were out of Lockdown. Aren't the CSR going to stop working now? Is the crippled people going to the CSR? Thirty-three-and-a-half thousand files are going to take off? What are they gonna do? Will it be reduced? I'm asking you specific things and I'm telling you that one of them is - and I told you again - the disabled who have allowances, have received allowances and go for review, and for these disabled people we suggest that you extend their allowance while the pandemic exists. We're making this simple suggestion. And the second one, which you will answer with a trik, but let us not waste our time now, is the 'primary people', that is to say, those who, for the first time, will go to CEPOL to get a privileged disability allowance. In fact, insurers are the most vulnerable. We are suggesting again with numbers, Madam Secretary, that you give them the allowance for the entire duration of the pandemic, because, from what we have calculated, this is a cost of 1 million per month unduly paid, which will be reimbursed - as a loan - so that people do not have an agony and so that they do not suffer. I also asked you something else, to which I would like you to answer now in your dentistry. We, as I believe, have reformed a great deal, namely the electronic file of disabled persons and the 'electronicisation' of the entire process of awarding disability benefits. That was something that, as you know, started in 2018. Gradually and pilots were extended to various cities and we were aiming for 2020 to go all over the country. So I think that's something you froze, Minister. With this, the disabled no longer need to have a physical presence in anything for OPEKA and the KEPA, only once for their examination. That's why I'm asking you if you're going to run it now, make the judgment a chance again, but a good chance. I would also like to tell you now - because we are actually receiving complaints that you may not know - tragic mistakes occur, there are problems and omissions in the system, that is to say, the opinion from the CIPA to the OPEKA is not electronically communicated. This means that the decision from the CIPA to the OPECA does not go electronically within 10 days, as foreseen by the CIPA. Then the disabled himself should get an opinion from the CSR to take her to the OPEKA. We're talking about the digital state in his greatness! That's what he calls a crippled squat with a tracheostomy. Secondly, disabled people are not notified of appointments with SMS or by e-mail or telephones, and as a result they lose appointments to CEPR. Of course, now, we won't have CSR because of Lockdown. Thirdly, those who have been judged and asked for additional supporting documents cannot contact the CSDP, because they have to ask for an appointment and the phones are constantly occupied, while they cannot book an appointment via the ECA system because such a platform has not been provided. Do something with this platform! Now, as long as Lockdown lasts, you can - and I say it in good faith - get organized to stop all this. But people with disabilities, Madam Secretary - and I'm ending - are also suffering from elderly people in the nursing homes. Since March we have proposed measures to increase staff and to continuous diagnostic tests for workers and beneficiaries, both in public and in private, despite the fact that the private was not your responsibility, and then we were told to coordinate all of you, which we have tried. You started implementing some measures in August, when the coronary had entered the foundations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u48	All right, hang up, please, Mrs. Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u49	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Again, the tests and tests are not enough. Today, more than two hundred fifty elderly people were affected in over fifteen institutions. However, what is incomprehensible to me is that you have now suspended the operation of the elderly day care centres. These are our elderly fellow men who are over seventy-five years old.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u50	All right, don't put a hundred topics on now. The question related to a specific matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u51	You must today suspend your Minister's CIA, you must state that you will be suspending the closure of the CIFs. It's a crime. Will the seventy-five or more stay alone at home?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u52	Mrs. Fotou, please hang up! We will not now put the whole of pro-active policy on a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, in the first Lockdown, the VHS has remained open. So why are they closing in the second lockdown? Can you answer me, Minister? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, but you are asking a topical question about the whole welfare policy. Ask a question, that the State Secretary should come and answer. Mrs. Undersecretary, here, you have the floor and the time to choose what you want to answer. DOMENA - MARIA MICHAELIDOU (Secretary of State for Labour and Social Affairs) Thank you, Mr President. You couldn't define it better. I'll try to answer as much as I can. I'll start at the end. In other words, we have had seven questions at the beginning, which were already too many to be able to answer this year, now we have four more. Anyway, with regard to the nursing homes, the truth is that many of your proposals together with the proposals we have already made since March go hand in hand. We mustn't fight each other here. We must say that, in order for your own proposals to go hand in hand with our own policies, there must be a common sense and common sense. So, with regard to your proposal to increase workers, as you said - and rightly so - we cannot predict an increase in workers in private homes for the elderly. However, since April, as you know, we have increased by 1/3 the workers in social welfare centres throughout the territory and, of course, in the structures of chronic illnesses, with staff COVID - doctors, nurses, carers, bankers - which we have taken specifically into the structures of chronic illnesses that we know have the greatest problem because of the subsistence of the last decade. We have only received five hundred people as a provision and, indeed, with money that we had originally budgeted from the national budget. We have secured European funds, we have returned them to the national budget - the Ministry of Finance was very happy - and we have guaranteed them for a six-month longer. Now, as you know, the policies, in particular the protocols that we are building and implementing, and with ministerial decisions, we regulate for all of our structures, come not only by consultation, but also by recommendations from the Special National Committee for Logistics. With regard to PPC, the open daily care centers for the elderly, which you referred to, and which, after suggesting the infectious ones, we left open to the first wave, and now we close, we do not do because the infectious ones had an ad hoc different view. We had a well-documented view, as we had very specific complaints that the elderly met in these places, at the PPC. So precisely for this reason, in order to avoid a meeting, aggregation and therefore the dispersion of the coronary, the suggestion of the infectious agents was that these centres should be closed down and, if necessary, that the elderly should go to a health center if they cannot be given this help at home. You told me that in the first part of my answer I did not answer your question, Mrs Fotio. No, Mrs. Fotio, I answered your question. In particular, you say: 'Questioned by the State Secretary for the immediate handling of the twenty-six thousand five-and-a-half demands of disability benefits accumulated in CEPOL'. That is why I told you that these figures are not correct, neither for the applications pending nor for the new ones. Now, I shall refer to the pace at which the health committees are working and, in particular, to your question as to whether we have taken steps to help the applicants more quickly, where you specifically ask me and tell me to turn the pandemic into an opportunity. I should like to begin by reminding you that, as you know, the postponement of CSR meetings from 13 March to 14 May had been decided. Then, from 15 May to 29 May, the reopening of the health committees began, initially in the Regional Units of Attica and Thessaloniki, as well as in their neighbouring areas and then in June the Sanctions Committees were set up and met at all parts of the CECs in the country. At the same time, the competent authorities have drawn up a detailed plan for the medical evaluation of applicants with declared inability to move. Finally, the home visits to the CSR committees for people with a very high disability, who cannot go to committee themselves, have begun since July. Following the reopening of the CEPR on 15 May, a total of thirty-four thousand two hundred one cases were recorded, of which twenty-two cases were scheduled for which the examination was postponed, four thousand eight hundred were outstanding applications without an examination planning and seven thousand four hundred concerned new requests submitted during the pandemic period. In order to deal immediately with the accumulation of incidents, we are intensified - and here is the answer - the pace of setting up health committees. In May, then, and specifically in the second fortnight, there were two hundred and fifty-nine committees. In June these committees were more than quadrupled and from two hundred and fifty nine there was a thousand hundred and eighty-five. In July there were a thousand six hundred fifty, six times more than in May. In August there were a thousand and twenty - six, in September, a thousand six hundred thirteen and in October a thousand three hundred sixty - seven. So in your really reasonable question, if we intend to multiply the health committees and - as you have said - to make the judgment an opportunity, the answer is that we have already done so. And if you want the results of this multiplication, let me tell you that from May to November the CSR committees have multiplyed for five times and in the months of July and September it was seven times more than that in May. We have increased the rate of examination by a great deal and I will also present in the minutes the relevant table of our services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-11-S1-commons.u56	With the agreement of the House at 10.36p. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 12 November 2020 at 11.00 hours, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a debate, at the request of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, pursuant to Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure, on the subject of informing the House about government policy on the treatment of pandemic, in accordance with the specific agenda distributed.
