ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour of announcing to the House on Thursday's topical and urgent debate on 27 August 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 971/24-8-2020 of the Member of the State of Change Movement, Mr. George Kamine, to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Koronoy's impacts on police and firefighting." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 981/25-8-2020 is a topical question by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Guidance for women who work seasonally in tourism without conditions". B. EDUCATION OF Second Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) Chamber of Deputies) 1. The question under number 982/25-8-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Yiannis Delis, on the subject: "Disasters from floods in Thassos". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 983/25-8-2020 of the Greek Komunist Party, Mr Leonidas Stoltides, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Disasters from floods in the Municipality of Lagada, the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki". Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement to this House: 1. The Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Economic, Development and Investment, National Defence, Environment and Energy, Shipping and Island Policy and Food submitted a draft law on 20-8-2020: ‘Definition of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Italian Republic on the demarcation of their respective Seas’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Economic, Development and Investment, National Defence, Environment and Energy, Shipping and Island Policy and Food submitted a draft law on 20-8-2020: ‘Definition of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt on the delimitation of the Exclusive Economic Zone between the two States’. The Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs submits its reports to the draft laws of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 1. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Italian Republic demarcation of their respective Sea Living’; and 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt on the delimitation of the Exclusive Economic Zone between the two States’. They shall be referred to the competent continuous committee. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK 1. Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Under the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Italian Republic on the demarcation of their respective Marine Living". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the bills of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt on the delimitation of the Exclusive Economic Zone between the two States'. As regards the procedure for the debate, although Rule 108 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure gives a limited opportunity to speak to those who object, due to the importance of the agreements, I propose that the rapporteurs and special speakers be placed for both contracts for fifteen minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives for twelve minutes, the list speakers for seven minutes and the Minister responsible for eighteen minutes in accordance with Rules 64, 97, 98 and 107 of the Rules of Procedure. I would remind you that if we went under the Rules of Procedure, speaking time for everyone would be five minutes. I also propose that the Parliamentary Groups should be represented, if they so wish, with a circle of fifteen Members as follows: six Members from New Democracy, three Members from SYRIZA, two Members from the Change Movement, two Members from the Communist Party of Greece and one MEP from the Greek Solution and Mera25 respectively. After consulting the Bureau with Mrs Athanasia Anagnostopoulou, although SYRIZA has given two rapporteurs, one for one for the other for the other agreement, SYRIZA will represent him as the general rapporteur only, Mr Katrugalos. Of course, I think Mrs Anagnostopoulou is entitled to be added as a simple speaker to seven minutes after giving 15 minutes to Mr Katrugalos. I can explain why I won't be in the Chair and write it in the Minutes so that the next one knows. This is as far as we agree. Now an objection of unconstitutionalism has been tabled by the Greek Solution, which will be preceded by the opening of the debate. There is also information that any party, in particular the Qualified Opposition, will be asked for a roll-call vote. If this is the case, the Bureau and the Members of Parliament who are in office understand why, we should know this in good time, because now the vote will normally take place in the presence of each Member, but we will be in the rules prior to the release, that is to say, before June, with fifty, sixty Members and we will see when the debate will be over. So, please, if this is the case, by noon, I would ask you to know this in order to prepare for the Bureau. Before we enter the debate, Mr Hetas will have him as saying, then they will be the converging ones. It may be a request if it is one of each party on the issue of unconstitutionalism to shorten our time in the Chamber, otherwise we will take it by the Rules of Procedure, i.e. if it wants to be one of the anti-constitutional and parliamentary representatives, I will ask one of the parliamentary representatives at the end if they want to speak unless they are the same person and do not have to. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Greek Members of Parliament are signing today and we are presenting an objection of unconstitutionality against the two draft laws brought by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It does not have to be a legal person in this Chamber to understand why we are making this move, which I shall explain immediately. What we are doing is at the very least, Mr President, which we can do really to prevent today from voting in favour of agreements which are harmful to our homeland, agreements which reduce our national sovereignty and agreements, which are unconstitutional and which I will explain immediately because we believe these two agreements are unconstitutional. Mr President, on the basis of our Constitution, Article 28(3), which states: "Greece shall, by means of a law adopted by an absolute majority of the total number of Members, make restrictions on the exercise of its national sovereignty, since it is dictated by a great national interest, not prejudice human rights and the foundations of the democratic constitution" and the most basic "to be based on the principles of equality and on the condition of reciprocity". Now let's go see what exactly the principle of equality we're talking about here today. We have two deals. Italy is an agreement which recognises a reduced influence on the islands, which includes instruments and this automatically involves a reduced EEZ and, of course, a continental continental shelf. Let me mention the following, because the essence is that the world, the Greeks and the Greeks, should listen to what is to be voted on today, what you are going to vote on today. Reduced influence: Overseas islands in 70%, Strods in 32%, thus reduced continental shelf and reduced corresponding marine zone. That means containment. The principle of equality, which is expressed in the average line that is going on in this particular case, is automatically violated. Let's go to Egypt's deal, we'll see you very simply so people can figure out what's going on. On the basis of the coordinates and the map we have in our hands, the scholars' calculations show that: Rhodes reduced influence, Minister, 83%. Mr President, Karpathus reduced its influence of 82%. Decreased influence, Kassus 82%. Golden and Koufonissi nothing, zero. Crete reduced impact 87%. This is translated into square miles of the surface, that is to say, to understand how many square kilometres to the surface of thirty - six thousand six hundred for Greece in an agreement with Egypt, which is not equal, it is heterogeneous, because it has forty - six thousand eight hundred for Egypt. Thirty - six thousand six hundred we and forty - six thousand eight hundred Egypt. Correspondence to be heard is 44% to 56%. Who, then, are we talking about? This is where the Constitution, Article 28(3), which speaks of the principle of equality, is flagrantly violated and violated. There is no equality. That's not all. We have great retreat, Mr President, to the Herodotus basin. One of the three pieces is ours. What's this deal doing? To hear it today, the Greeks and the Greeks. We gave 75% of a third that corresponds to us in Egypt. Scientists estimate that there is a mineral wealth of 400 billion euros and we give 75% of our piece to the Egyptians. Gift! I would refer you to statements by scientists and Mr Ilias Konofagou, a member of the Athens Academy for Energy, of approved scientists who say that, but unfortunately, they are not heard anywhere. Mr President, as a Greek solution we have said many times, and in the debate we had on the revision of the Constitution, it is our position and our beginning, this immediate creation - now, of course, you will tell me that it is not a constitutional court. Because if there was a constitutional court today, we wouldn't have had that conversation. I'm going to tell you something else, 'cause there's obviously going to be a lot here today. Watch what you say. Because for EOZ in the Greek Solution and for this political leader you will not speak. Especially for EOZ in Greek Solution and this political leader, who has devoted all his political life to these issues. Mr President, the Greek Parliament is the guardian of the Constitution. Us, the Greek MPs, the world voted to protect the laws and the Constitution. And today the Constitution in this Chamber with the two draft laws of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is being completely violated. We put you all before your responsibilities. The historian of the future records and we will not be part and part of this story, a story that gives a reduced national sovereignty in the country. We will fight to protect our national and sovereign rights and the Greeks will have to learn the truth from here today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u3	In the first place, we're starting backwards. From Mera25, does anyone want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, we will speak in a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u5	From the Communist Party of Greece?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, when we speak, not now, on the issue of constitutionality. When we speak, we shall be able to address all these issues in the speeches. We have already done so in committee, and we will do so in place here. Isn't there a reduced domination with American bases?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u7	All right, you'll say what you want in your place. From the Change Movement for Constitutional Tension who will take the floor? Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I do not know whether this debate is right to take a long time. I don't think it should last, almost at all. I respect all colleagues. Especially with regard to colleagues from the Greek Solution, we have shown respect for each other in the course of one year in this Chamber. I believe, however, today that they do not contribute to the debate or even national ones. I'll just say two phrases. The States when concluding international agreements come as free states and define, in their sovereignty and in their choices, what they define and agree with another state. There is a government signatory, there is a parliament that also ratifys the President of the Republic. So far, anything related to constitutional and non-constitutional issues is out of the question. Now we're going to the second one, which might be worth a phrase. Are we going to Article 28(3) or to Article 28(1)? There can be no confusion, Mr President, between sovereignty and sovereign rights. It's impossible to do this. I do not accept that there may be an ignorance of these terms or a deliberate confusion of these terms in order to have discussions. We are in favour of rejecting this objection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u9	Thank you too, Mr Loverdos, and for the brief. Mr. Katrugalos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. The objection of anti-constitutionality is based on an incorrect condition, namely that Article 28(3) of the Constitution applies and not Article 28(1), as is true. As mentioned above by Mr Loverdos, Article 28(3) concerns restrictions on national sovereignty. So, what does that just mean? When we commit ourselves to the fact that one of our responsibilities will no longer be able to exercise it in the future, for example, because we have transferred it to an agency such as the European Union. Therefore, in this respect, which we have no question of restricting the exercise of national sovereignty, but of concluding an international convention under Article 28(1), this regulation obviously does not apply. Political criticism, which we too will develop, which is that the methodology followed is not obvious, obviously not equivalent to an anti-constitutionality. We should not confuse these two different classes of argument. That is why we are in favour of rejection.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u11	From New Democracy, who will take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u12	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u13	Here you go, Mr. Hatzidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. The objection of unconstitutionality is not correct, and I will explain why. The process of ratifying the current agreements is followed by Article 28(1), as expressly mentioned in the first article of the agreements which we have now before us. The provision of paragraph 3 of Article 28 of the Constitution does not apply, which, in order to be implemented, we need to have a national sovereignty limitation and, as you know, the delimitation of an EEZ is nothing like that. On the other hand, the delimitation of the EEZ strengthens sovereignty rather than restricting its exercise. So, basically, we are energising rights today and we have nothing at all. So we are right to follow the procedure on the basis of Article 28(1). I would remind you that it had been ratified in 1995, twenty-five years ago, UNCLOS, the Convention governing the Law of the Sea, but also in 1977, the Greek-Italy Agreement on the Shelves, then with Constantine Karamanlis. Therefore, this objection is legal waste and, obviously, it is only for reasons of impression. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u15	Before I give the Minister the floor, if she wishes, Mrs Sacorafa has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, the influence of the islands is declining and we have noted this in our speech yesterday and it is one of the reasons why we regard the agreements as problematic for the time being, but also for the future. But the principle of reciprocity has been respected. So there is no question of unconstitutionality. The rest will be placed in our speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u17	Thank you too, Mr. Sakorafa. The government has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u18	Mr. President, to God! Why the five minutes? Anyway, thanks for the generosity. This is obviously a legal error. It has been mentioned by colleagues. 28.3 here finds no application. 28.1 is applicable. As far as the rest of the matter is concerned, they are completely inaccurate, but these are issues of substance. It means, if my fellow Members would allow me, with all due respect, on matters so seriously that at least a sufficient analysis of the provisions can be made before anyone can invoke them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Heta, you spoke. You have no further speech on this matter. When your time will come, then you can talk again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u21	I believe that the clear positions of the parties' representatives are clearly what you want. The objection of unconstitutionality is therefore rejected. We are starting with the rapporteur-general from New Democracy, MP Serres Anastasios Hatzivistiou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we have two historic and important agreements, two agreements which the government has negotiated responsibly, protecting the national interest. Today, for the first time, the country defines with neighbouring states exclusive economic zones and this is credited to the Prime Minister and, of course, to the Foreign Minister. Previously, during the debate in this Chamber in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the Qualified Opposition accused the Government of lack of national planning in foreign policy making and from Ellassona Opposition we heard comments on desecrated moves. Ladies and gentlemen, with the agreements between Greece - Italy and Greece - Egypt, the government closes decades, proves in practice that it implements a strategy of national integration based on international law only and sends a clear message of self-confidence and determination in every direction. It is, therefore, creating strong legal achievements today, as a result of a political principle based on international legitimacy alone. Within just one year he signed two beneficial agreements, confirming the right of islands to AEZ and continental shelf. Within a year he showed the country as a factor of stability in the region and showed the way to how bilateral loose ends are settled. Negotiation with good faith, application of international treaties and conventions, of course without threats and no blackmails. You call that a lack of strategy? Is that what you call a lack of planning? Greece today increases its geopolitical footprint and safeguards its jurisdiction and rights. With these agreements, therefore, it ensures that our islands have both a continental shelf and an EEZ. The Greek-Italian agreement was clearly the beginning and gave the trigger, while the Greek-Egyptian slowly restores order to the south-eastern Mediterranean. Today, about thirty years after the entry into force of the UN Convention, known as UNCLOS, Greece closes the loose ends of demarcation of maritime zones with neighbouring states. And because things have been heard about the EEZ over the last few days, I would like to relive Article 74 of the International Convention saying that: 'Definition of EEZ between neighbouring states with objects or adjacent coasts is done by agreement under international law. In the case of non-conformity within a reasonable time, the two States must resort to a judicial settlement.’ In fact, the same article encodes customs law which also applies to states that have not ratified UNCLOS, such as our neighbour Turkey. So it is clear that the most appropriate way under international law to demarcate an EEZ is to reach bilateral agreements. Especially in the present circumstances, with increased Turkish provocation, the two agreements ensure far more for the country than they explicitly describe. They send a message everywhere that Greece is a calm force, a force that not only invokes international law, but now proves that it can make use of it to actually guarantee its own rights. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement with Italy on demarcation of our maritime zones is the first agreement signed for maritime zones from our country and is the result of multiannual processes. Mostly, however, it is the result of a persistent and systematic effort by the government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in recent years. This text confirms in the most fascinating way the right of islands to maritime zones. The delimitation is based on the average line of the existing Greek - Italian - 1977 Shelter Agreement. With the present agreement, the average line will apply to the overheads of the continental seas. So the 1977 demarcation agreement now extends to an agreement which includes all maritime zones and therefore also the EEZ. And the choice for the whole of these areas to be in line with international practice is obviously in the interest of our country. Regarding the demarcation, the use of the average line in the definition of the continental shelf and the recognition of the island's rights once again demonstrates that Greece remains stable in its fixed positions. This agreement is a secure model and an excellent precedent for similar negotiations with other neighbouring countries in the future. In particular, fisheries and environmental protection issues shall be dealt with in the framework of joint declarations. Indeed, it was the issue of fishing that dealt most with both sides. The Italian fishermen fought the possibility of an agreement with Greece on the basis of the bad experience they had gained from the respective Italian-French agreement in 2015, which was never ratified by the Italian Parliament because of the reactions of Italian fishermen. Thus, the Italians considered that they had acquired historical rights through their unconditional activity in international waters open to the Ionian Sea. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs strongly reacted to the historical rights of Italian fishermen, since the Italian argument is completely unscathed. It was therefore decided jointly to send a letter to the Commission requesting the future amendment of the Fisheries Policy Regulation so that when Greece decides to extend the territorial waters up to 12 nautical miles to the area, the Italians' existing fishing activity in the interim zone currently constituted by international waters. But here the Foreign Minister has achieved an important prediction. When Greece extends its territorial waters, only a certain number of Italian vessels will be able to fish in the zone from 6 to 12 nautical miles and of course under the control of the Greek authorities alone. Furthermore, it is foreseen that the Italians will be able to fish exclusively for certain species which are not of interest to Greek fishermen. Italy thus accepts limitations on fishermen who so far fish uncontrolledly in those waters and at the same time strongly confirms our country's right to extend our national territorial waters. At the same time, the Joint Declaration on Mediterranean Resources was signed under the Agreement. In this statement, the two States express their commitment to balanced and sustainable management of marine resources and, of course, agree to hold consultations in the future to assess any impact on fishermen's existing practices from environmental, legal, climate or other developments. Italy's decision, a great and serious European country, to conclude a balanced and legally strong agreement with Greece means recognition of the credibility of the government and, of course, of our own country. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement with Egypt - to come to the next item - is just as important a political and symbolic agreement. This is a completely legitimate agreement between two sovereign states. It is part of the wider strategy of bilateral openness and of building alliances with third parties, defending above all national interests. It is the result of the most intense processes of Greek diplomacy, with discussions starting 15 years ago and the agreement being concluded after 14 rounds of negotiations. Of course, the very good relations between the Prime Minister and Egyptian President Ceci also played a key role. And this agreement clearly confirms our country's firm position that the islands have both a continental shelf and an AEZ. The message that this agreement sends in all directions is that our country does not make illegal agreements. Greece does not force other countries into linguist agreements without legal effect. On the contrary, it negotiates and makes demarcations under the Law of the Sea and International Law, not with illegal gambling. I would like to point out that Turkey has recently offered Egypt an alternative agreement on our own, which has given Cairo more sea space. But the Government of Cairo made its choice and chose international legitimacy. So clearly, he chose to conclude a legal and recognised agreement with our side. After all, the good climate in the relations between Greece and Egypt has also been confirmed by the immediate ratification of the agreement which we are discussing today by the Egyptian Parliament a few days ago. Furthermore, this agreement between Greece and Egypt also abolishes the illegal Turkish memorandum signed last November between the Turkish Government and the Tripolis regime, that is, Mr Sarage's status. Together, it breaks the Turkish view of the region. Besides, Ankara's strong reaction has been explained for the past few weeks. So the illegal Turkish memorandum is cross-checked with a legal delimitation based on international law. The two texts, the turbine and the Greek-Egypt agreement cannot be compared either politically or legally. It's two completely different things. Why? Firstly, the Turkish memorandum is not in accordance with the Law of the Sea. Secondly, it was concluded by two countries that are not neighbours. Thirdly, his validity was even denounced by him, Libya's legally elected parliament. And fourthly, its undermining role against stability in the Mediterranean has emerged from too many countries, including our partners and allies in the European Union and NATO. So, with today's Greek - Egypt's agreement, Greece's rights are guaranteed in an area of almost thirty thousand square kilometres. In fact, the whole marine region that Turkey claims with the illegal Turkish memorandum is now recognised as an area of Greek jurisdiction. So Ankara's claims prove illegal and unrealistic. And that is what everyone recognizes in the international community. Furthermore, the current agreement fully overlap with the areas that Turkey has announced it intends to grant to the Turkish oil company, the so-called 'TPAO', for hydrocarbon investigations. Furthermore, this agreement, combined with the Greek agreement, creates a suffocating pressure regime in neighbouring Libya. From now on, Libya is among two legal demarcations, Greece - Italy and Greece - Egypt. Any Libyan government in the future will be forced to enter into talks with Athens, so that we can legally complete the demarcation of maritime zones south of Crete. This is also a great government success. With regard to demarcation: Originally Egypt did not agree to demarcation of a middle line, comparing the proportionality of coast objects. But in the end, recognizing our mutual interest, our excellent bilateral relations and the international environment, it agreed on an interim solution, that is to say, a line which, on objective criteria, meets the interests of the two countries and is very close to the objectives which both sides had set in the first place. So the distribution of the seaside space between Egypt and Greece moves to 55% and 45% respectively, a particularly positive result for our country. Of course, this delimitation is partial. This means, however, that it is part of an overall, later demarcation between the two countries. The partial delimitation, ladies and gentlemen, does not mean denial of our sovereign rights. The priority is clearly the abolition of the Turkish memorandum, which we are achieving. Article 1 of the Agreement expressly provides that both parties shall continue their talks to complete the delimitation beyond the extremes of the agreed line. As for the part that we agree today, its delimitation is final, binding and is not capable of any change. And here is another important, positive result of the government strategy: Egypt has accepted that this delimitation is partial and that it is pending its completion, which it did not accept in previous years. Furthermore, this agreement opens the way for the full exploitation of our wealth production resources in the south of Crete and, of course, we deepen our relations with Egypt, the largest Arab state. And that is of particular importance, especially now that the Middle East scene is becoming more complicated every day. Ladies and gentlemen, the strategy of the government is clear: Faith in International Law, dialogue with the aim of agreeing to full exercise of our sovereign rights. The Mitsotakis Government with confidence and determination closes a period of inertia and hesitation in the country's foreign policy and sends out a clear message in all directions and, above all, towards Turkey, that demarcation of maritime zones, our only bilateral loose ends, can only be done within the framework laid down by international law and nothing else. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the New Democracy is voting in favour of the two agreements. They are emancipated by International Law and they are putting order on the vulnerability that some in the Mediterranean are trying to impose. We also call on the other political forces to do so. Especially now that Turkish challenging continues, national unity is more necessary than ever. No responsible political power can escape major national issues, such as what we are discussing today. And the New Democracy calls for all parties to be clearly placed on the two agreements. Unfortunately, SYRIZA, in his statement, intends to vote'residents' in the agreement with Egypt. Ladies and gentlemen, in national matters, there are no'residences'. National issues want clear positions. I will not go into the internal-party triumph of SYRIZA, of which he wanted to vote for the agreement with Egypt, but I will stand on Mr Tsipras' statement at the Delphi Forum on 10 June, who said: 'We want to negotiate immediately with Egypt on the AOZ configuration, but move on now'. In fact, in a question that he received from the journalist, he explained: “Of course, partial delimitation. We're going in part.” So today, SYRIZA says himself. Trying to balance between supporters of the Greek and Egyptian agreement and those who demand a sterile opposition, he chooses to evade the'residence'. The aim is, obviously, to ensure his inner-party tranquility. So the House today endorses two historic agreements, two texts which are proof that the government and Greek diplomacy are responsible and bold for foreign policy, with certainty and determination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u23	The general rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr George Karugalos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to wish the House's 'good return' to all of you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, during the debate in the committee, both our colleague and I pointed out that every international agreement incorporates compromises, self-commitments of the states and their sovereignty, which are judged to be beneficial or not, on the basis of the national interest and whether or not they are incorporated into a draft national strategy and we criticised the Government that such a plan does not exist. Mrs Bakoyannis objected to us that we are not right, that there has been at least the last fifteen years such a plan, which consists of seeking to create an EEZ with our neighbouring states. The existence of a purpose, however, as it is, is not a strategy if it is not served by a specific methodology. And because - badly lies - our main problem with our foreign policy is our relations with the eastern neighbour, how will we regain its revision, how can we have with him a dialogue based on international law, should also give an answer to this question. In order not to be unfair, during the first New Democracy rule in this century there was - at least as a preplan - a similar strategy plan. We sometimes call it the 'Mollyviats doctrine'. It may be that the three-time Foreign Minister is wronged by his personalisation of trends in previous and intrinsic foreign policy features of the conservative party. So it prevailed, and so I use it, without personally wanting to render any reproach or indulgence to the former Minister, whom I honor and respect. So the methodology that incorporated this doctrine was the strict application of the rule of the middle line and the equal distance to delimit AOZ, combined with the pursuit, at all times, of the absolute influence of our islands. As far as relations with Turkey are concerned, it was practically incorporating a sense of immobility, a logic that the country should earn time, avoid sitting on the table, in short the logic of non-solution. It is clear that both agreements that we are coming to ratify today do not follow the rule of full influence of the islands. In Italy, we know exactly the relatively reduced influence of the islands concerned by this observation. For the Copernicus we have 70% reduced influence, for the Strands we have 32%. And yes, as far as the agreement with Italy is concerned, it is not a major issue because it could be argued that it was the agreement with the continental shelf, that we are a state that respects its international obligations, 'pacta sunt servanda', all of which had been done before the UNCLOS Agreement, and that is why we are simply repeating - because the EEZ is identified with the continental shelf - the existing agreement. In fact, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said before, it seems that - as we have always asked you to do and so far - you will strengthen the strategic depth of this agreement by extending the territorial waters to the Ionian Sea, which, of course, I would remind you, as an opposition you have denounced,'strengthening fundamental positions of our national policy'. Apparently welcome. It's good for someone to correct their mistakes. I would like, Mr Loverdos, to see what you, too, will do to denounce this option, if you will vote in favour, inclined to a modulation that I see in recent times you have to have towards New Democracy or perhaps you are the only party that will vote against the extension of our yacht to the Ionian zone. That's it in Italy. That is why we have supported the convention from the very first moment and we will be voting in favour of it. But what about the agreement with Egypt? In the convention with Egypt we do not know what impact the islands have on the text of the agreement and the Minister for Foreign Affairs refused to give the clarification we requested. We don't know the base lines. We know, of course, that the average line rule has not been followed. The Minister admitted that. We also know that influence is reduced. This is obvious from the fact that the percentage attributed to us in terms of the EOZ is less than what we would have taken under the middle line rule. So the influence of our islands, even of our largest island, Crete, is reduced. We have not received the answers that would help us to have a picture not only of the facts in themselves, but of the methodology followed. However, it is certainly not the country's methodology to date. It is not the methodology - to say it in other words - of the doctrine Maniot. The crucial thing, therefore, is not only the evaluation of the agreement itself with Egypt. It is what you will then do as a government in negotiations with Turkey. Will you apply the contract methodology for Egypt? Then you have to tell us exactly who she is. Will you apply the Molyviat doctrine? But if you come to the negotiations with Turkey on the basis of the Molyviat doctrine, how will you answer the question why, with another methodology, you negotiate with one another? Do you intend to do something third? What was the Minister's response to the methodology used? The methodology was the method of finding a line, ‘a meeting of the will of two sovereign states’. It did not even complete 'according to the Law of the Sea'. So does this mean that we are going to negotiate with Turkey without any standard of methodology that comes from UNCLOS, simply seeking the balance of the will of the two parties? But isn't that exactly what Turkey has been asking for since 1974? Is it to be negotiated on the basis of the vital interests of the two states? If you go to the negotiations with Turkey, without you having accepted our request to discuss, if not in the public debate before the House, at least within a Council of Political Heads with similar lines in the investigative contacts with Turkey, you are actually asking us to adopt a peculiar form of secret diplomacy. In other words, as you wish, in uncharted waters without a national strategy agreed, with a clear discrepancy with what we know, you have so far been negotiating and having applied through the vote that we will now give this House and a supposed approval of the National Delegation without us, ladies and gentlemen of the majority and Minister. We have shown that we are a patriotic power of responsibility. We want there to be a national strategy and we want there to be a national unit that supports this strategy. We have repeatedly called on you to co-ordinate this strategy within the framework of a national foreign policy council. You refused. We have given the committee the lightening of doubt by choosing the 'present' rather than a negative attitude to this agreement, so that you could provide the necessary clarifications. Because we accept that if it joins a national strategy plan, the convention with Egypt can actually plunge the illegal Turkish pact. Of course, it will permeate, that is, to give us a tool, but it does not automatically cancel this pact, as again demagogically and not honouring your obligation of truth to the Greek people, you have said. So you asked, Minister, in your speech on the front of national unity. Sure. But on what basis? There is still time to formulate a new national strategy that is missing. We do not think that the doctrine of non-resolution, immobilisation is the way to resolve disputes. The foreign policy we followed was an active foreign policy that pursued the solutions, emphatically with the Prespecies Agreement, where we accepted demagogic, municipal warfare. But in fact you, too, continue in both these negotiations, the steps we have taken towards a beneficial agreement on our national interests. We therefore reject the logic of non-solution and immorality. But we expect you - because you are the government - to tell us what strategy you will follow with Turkey from now on, which methodology. We cannot go to the void, nor can you ask for a white cheque counterpopulation. We did not tolerate the violation of the duty of truth on your part when, in the words of your own national security adviser, you mocked the Greek people about the violation of our sovereign rights by the seismic investigations carried out by the "ORUC REIS". We will not tolerate the indirect violation of the duty of truth by hiding the strategy you are going to follow by not opening up your papers on how you are going to negotiate with Turkey. You are right to say that these moments are historic. The escalation of Turkey's aggression has indeed taken new, quality unprecedented dimensions. And each of us as a representative of the nation has an individual responsibility to stand against these historic challenges. That is why we ask for a roll-call vote so that each individual and every political force can take its responsibilities and face up to history. We will do it with the sense of patriotic responsibility that has always described us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u25	Good. Now we're going to the Change Movement. There will be two rapporteurs and we will go through the committee procedure. I've reached out to Mr. Kegeroglu. There will be a slight tolerance to him and time will be saved by the other colleague. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor, after the seat has been first cleared.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now coming to the Greek Parliament for discussing and ratifying or not two Greek agreements with Italy and Egypt concerning the demarcation of the respective maritime areas in a period of strong uncertainty and insecurity in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean. We come as far as we are concerned, with the historical weight of the party founded to serve the country and the citizens and gave Greece the lost confidence that it can go with national dignity and independence as an ally rather than a satellite and a policy that guarantees national law and at the same time contributes to peace. Our responsible attitude together with our proposals to be included in the sanction are driven by the patriotic character of our party and by our firm pursuit of our national sovereign rights. In this context, we are also making the harsh but necessary criticism of governmental or unauthorised inertia. Turkey has, for some time now, gone from the stage of infraction to aggression, with a crescendo of escalating challenges and actions which it incorporates in its overall strategy to widen its field of influence in the Mediterranean trial of superpower. The escalating Turkish aggression that continues to provoke Greece and Europe directly cannot be dealt with only with statements and words either of soundness or of lionism. A comprehensive plan is needed by Greece and Europe to include strong and effective sanctions. And if the sanctions imposed by the European Union in the case of Turkey's illegal activity in the Cypriot EEZ were weak, in the case of Turkish aggression against Greece and its sovereign rights were nonexistent. In addition, the company 'IREN' did not honour its title, and the European Union did not set itself before its responsibilities to warn Turkey of the freezing of the customs union in the event that it did not stop the challenges and illegal activities. Result? Disarmament and escalation of challenges, illegal NAVTEX and illegal activity of the research vessel and the convoy. The unilateral declarations and actions of the Member States of the European Union, as welcome as they are, do not create a European response and much more European strategy. NATO, which is supposed to protect the countries - its members from aggressive actions by non-members, what has it done for Libya's aggressive action to sign the illegal Turkish pact that has not been ratified by the Libyan Parliament, but has been combined with military preparations and equipment? For all this, the New Democracy Government is responsible for having fallen short, without a plan and without effective initiatives and has failed to make sufficient use of our country's position in Europe and in the Eurozone, but also in NATO, to provoke the respective decisions and actions of our allies. And since the activity of Turkish ships continues in our field of sovereign rights, your responsibility is for this year as well. This makes it even greater and in view of the Borrell statements tomorrow, which will show whether the late September occasion will be lost. The Change Movement, which supports every national initiative that serves national interests, has stressed the lack of strategy in foreign policy and criticises the government's refusal to demand national understanding for the formation of a strong national line, which even takes features of unexplained inexplainable dissatisfaction along the path of the previous SYRIZA government. The attitude of Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Tsipras does not, as has been demonstrated, offer the national case. We do not confuse time and effort to repeat and insist that the meeting of political leaders is not a photo and statements after that. It is the political will, the preparation, information, the understanding of the political forces and the formation of a strong national line that precedes and is ratified in the Council of Political Heads. From now on, national consultation and strategy is an undeniable necessity for the completion of the demarcation of maritime zones to be progressed on the basis of the following data. Greece respects and moves under the 1982 International Sea Law which it has ratified. It certainly prejudges the average line and the position that the islands have a 100% influence on the definition of maritime zones. Greece and Italy came to an agreement on the EEZ on the basis of a prior agreement of 1977 on the continental shelf which had not been ratified. We have already expressed our views on the agreement on fisheries and the rights conditional upon Italian fishermen and on the responsibilities which the European Union assumes as responsible for fisheries. At the same time, however, we have stressed to the committee that there are differences in the EEZ agreement in relation to the International Maritime Law and the positions expressed in our country. Greece considers that this was due to the fact that it was based on the 1977 Shelves Agreement, which pre-established the Montego Bey Agreement, which started in 1994, and which is why they are respected. We are also calling today for a statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs to be included in the ratification and, following these notes, we consider the agreement with Italy to be sufficient and we are voting in favour of it. I now come to the agreement with Egypt and, from the outset, consider it an incomplete agreement, with many problems, but we are voting in favour of it as necessary because the illegal Turkish pact is perpetrated and can, together with other actions, contribute to its cancellation. At the same time we make it clear that we consider this agreement to be a partial and intermediate one that we must pursue immediately and we can achieve it, but we note it only a strong national strategy for further integration. This agreement, therefore, in addition to what it well regulates, does not in itself ensure positive developments for the next stages, but on the contrary leaves much room for it to be negative. That is why we believe and insist that the component of our strategy should continue to be the position of 100% influence of the islands and the view of this agreement with Egypt as part of the overall approach agreed by both parties to seek. We are putting forward this position and the need for a statement by the Foreign Minister, as we have proposed, on the agreement with Italy to express Greece's position: firstly, that the demarcation of an EEZ with Egypt is partial and, as the Convention itself provides, there will be a continuation of negotiations for its completion between them, demarcating both from point E and west to the limits of Libyan EEZ and from point A east to border of neighbouring EEZ. Secondly, the full influence of Crete, of the islands adjacent to it and Rhodes, which are not all included in the demarcated part of the EEZ between the 26th and the 28th mediterranean will be set for calculation in the future demarcation west of the 26th mediterranum and east of the 28th mediterranum together, of course, with the full influence of all the islands and the Kastelorizo complex in this area. With all this, I am closing my suggestion of a positive vote in the bills of ratification of the agreements, and I would point out, ladies and gentlemen, that we need to realise that the whole political world, particularly, but above all the government, has only one possibility to succeed. This also requires strategic and national agreement on a patriotic policy, away from dangerous nationalism and unnecessarily unnecessarily internationalism, to secure our national sovereign rights, in peace and security in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u27	Until Mr Fraggidis comes, the second rapporteur from the Change Movement, I would like to inform the House that after the clear statement by the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Katrugalos, his party will submit a request for a roll-call vote the President decided that the roll-call vote will take place tomorrow, from 15.00 noon to 20.00 a.m. every hour, every sixty colleagues, for the known reasons. So the groups, the groups responsible, will inform your members of what you have just heard. Mr. Francis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. To begin with, and for the very short time I have, I would like to say and say that I fully agree with what my colleague Mr Kegeroglu said in his speech. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's plenary session we are debating the ratification of two very important agreements between Greece and Italy and Egypt on the EEZ. These agreements come to be ratified at a very difficult time for our country, at a time of great tension with Turkey and after the Turkish pact, which is a flagrant violation of international law. Thus, relations between Greece and Turkey are evolving within a geopolitical framework relating to the Eastern Mediterranean and which has changed radically. In this geopolitical context, Turkey is moving with arrogant and aggressive attitudes, adopting a strategy of great idealism. However, if our country moves consistently, with a national strategy within a European framework and with the support of international law, it can have opportunities that will result in positive results. However, as was seen by the statements and resignation of the Prime Minister, Mr Diakopoulos, but also by the Prime Minister's refusal to conven the Political Heads Council, there is a lack of a national strategy. As usual, the government has been accompanying its signatures for agreements with Italy and Egypt with the rhetoric that this is a diplomatic and national success, but only by highlighting the positive elements and, of course, by concealing the negative ones. To come to the agreement with Italy, I would like to say that the conversion of the 1977 agreement from the then Karamanlis government to delimit the continental shelf into an agreement on demarcation and the EEZ between Greece and Italy was an old foreign policy objective and, of course, with its plus and beyond, a positive development. In order for this agreement to be achieved at that time, our country has, however, accepted a reduced influence on the Strophs and the Overseas Islands and on counter-regions of regions. The coordinates were also agreed in a way that would not bother neighbouring countries as well as Italian fishermen. Of all this, however, we must learn that dialogue between friends of states always leads to a solution to even difficult and chronic problems. For these reasons, we are in favour of this agreement. As far as the agreement with Egypt is concerned, however, it is a fact that the development of the EEZ with Egypt is essential, as is the law of the Sea to demarcate EEZ from one country to another. The government, however, proceeded with this agreement in secret and by concise procedures, under pressure from Turkish investigations in the area mentioned. This led the government to considerable concessions. However, what is positive is over-protected and what is negative in the agreement. The impression has been made that the Greek EEZ is now, even partially, delimited and that Turkish investigations will be prevented. The fact is, however, that it does not cancel the illegal memorandum between Turkey and Libya, but it is perverting it, thus creating an international dispute, which is a good thing. Furthermore, the agreement contains no appeal clause, as well as no reference is made to the principles governing delimitation, in particular the rules of the equal distance between the middle and the full influence of the islands. No reference is yet made to the concept of the continent. Furthermore, and still today, Parliament does not know whether there are and what commitments Egypt has made to Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement, knowing very well the difficulties for the integrity of our country, are being played in our region and always taking into account, as a patriotic party that is, the good of Greece, away from useless divisions and with a strict, critical mood, will vote in favour of the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u29	Me too, Mr. Francis. The special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr George Marinos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government, SYRIZA and the other parties are considering Greece's agreements with Italy and Egypt, seconded by developments in the region. They overcome the problem and the consequences of intense imperialist competition in the eastern Mediterranean and wider. However, the real situation shows that the US, NATO and European Union military forces, the forces of Russia and China and other states do not show up in the region, but participate in competition, in which great interests are at stake, interests relating to the deposits of hydrocarbons and energy pipelines, strategically important and also marine channels. These dangerous developments have taken place and the war of the American-Natural imperialism in Iraq, Syria and Libya has been declared and the aggression of the Turkish bourgeoisie has been manifested in this environment in competition with the Greek. The Greek governments have had great responsibilities so far. The US bases in Greece, set by the governments of the New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA, turning the country into an imperialist forum, are aggressive action against the peoples and endangering our peoples. The alliance with Israel strengthens a state that keeps occupation in the Palestinian territories and murders the Palestinian people. Greece's participation in imperialistic missions abroad is a particularly dangerous option. We raise these issues because they substantiate two important conclusions: firstly, it stresses that the forces of Euroatlanticism, responsible for dozens of wars and interventions with disastrous consequences, are not forces of peace and stability, but are proven opponents of the people. The second conclusion, stresses that the working class, the popular strata, youth must show no confidence in the urban governments and parties whose policy bears the seal of the interests of Greek pluralism and is involved in the country's imperialist competitions. This is the substance that is trying to cover itself through the false New Democracy - SYRIZA whether there is a national strategy or not. Who are you kidding? The pillars of the so-called national strategy are the interests of major economic groups, participation in NATO and the European Union, relations with the United States of America. And you have all accepted that. Therefore, the debate on national strategy and consensus aims to blur water, make the people accomplices and disarm them. The government says: "But how? The allies are on the side of Greece". And we tell you that your allies are with their own interests, their geostrategic pursuits, and with this criterion they make their choices. The facts show that Turkish aggression is manifested with their own support and the statements of sympathy or false solidarity of the European Union are for consumption and what is judged by economic, political and military relations with the Turkish bourgeoisie. You have reached out to yourself, gentlemen of the government, to be indignant about NATO’s attitude. And that is not only the Secretary General, Stoltenberg, NATO, are the United States, Britain, Germany, France. Why? For they draw up guidelines and have the responsibility for the great tragedies and among them, the Cyprus tragedy and the preservation of Turkish occupation for forty-six years on the island. These are your allies, and we'll say something more. Today you are complaining about Turkey's dangerous aggression. But tomorrow, Mr Mitsotakis, as Mr Tsipras has already said, will sit at the same naval table as Mr Erdogan to make joint decisions in NATO against the peoples. The same will be done at the level of Foreign and Defence Ministers. And our people are invited to draw conclusions. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is very worrying. At the initiative of the Americans, NATO and the European Union, a more general arrangement is being promoted in the region, which part of it is the collection of marine zones in the eastern Mediterranean and the Aegean Sea, and the division of Cyprus, in the context of a great compromise of the urban classes and the debate on substantial dialogue is on the subject. The US and European monopolies seek to cooperate. That is why Mr Pompeo and Mr Piat are involved. That is why the German Foreign Minister, who then met with Mr Tsavosoglou, came to Athens. However, taking into consideration with or without recourse to the Court of Justice of The Hague means continuing the cycle in Greek-Turkish relations and increasing tensions in the region. The agreements, ladies and gentlemen, signed by the Greek Government with Italy and Egypt serve or facilitate the great compromise. And this cannot be concealed by government celebrations. The celebrations to demarcate EOZ have short feet. Definition of EEZ made Cyprus, Egypt, Israel and other states, but the one who wins is the energy monopolies and losers are the peoples who go into adventures, because this is the capitalist jungle. Ladies and gentlemen, the delimitation of the continental continent between Greece and Italy took place in 1977, after the Greek-Turkish crisis in 1976. Since then, the International Convention on the Law of the Sea of 1982, which provides for the islands with economic life, has had rights, such as the continental coasts. However, the agreement signed gives a reduced influence to the intersectional islands of 70% and to the Strofades 32%, shifting the average line in favour of the Italian bourgeoisie in favour of the Italian bourgeoisie. Government officials say these losses were covered with the influence of Kefalonia, but these calculations are out of reality, because, for example, the cross-border islands are on the tri-international and affect demarcation with Albania and the issues of sovereign rights do not fit into netting. A joint notification to the European Union has been signed that Italy and Greece are requesting the amendment of the Common Fisheries Policy Regulation and since Greece decides to extend its hayalitis zone up to 12 nautical miles, the activity of Italian fishing in the area after 6 and 12 nautical miles will be maintained. This means that the Greek Government has taken responsibility for conferring sovereign rights, at least on fisheries issues. Furthermore, it is not at all convincing, but the government position on the fishing balance is not enough, because the explanation is that there are restrictive measures for Italian fishermen in terms of the number of vessels and species that can fish, since it is known that the Italian fishing fleet is formed by monopolistic companies and a strong number of units with many advantages. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek-Egypt agreement on partial demarcation of the EEZ is also the result of unacceptable compromise, based on the interests of the urban classes and on the historical importance of defrauding the people. That is why the Government has not given the parties the materials that record the full picture, the methodology for calculating the impact of the islands, the base points and the hydrographic map on what each EEZ contains. The partial delimitation axes to the 26th and 28th meridian blocks the maritime road of Greece - Cyprus, excluding Kastelorizo and half Rhodes, while the area from the 28th to the 32nd meridian is at the forefront of the total bazaar and the claims of the Turkish bourgeoisie, as can be seen from the relevant NAVTEX, the military exercises and movements of the research ship "ORUC REIS". These days government officials along with bourgeois analysts who have raised the imperialist pursuits in the region in religion have exceeded every limit. They discovered that Kastelorizo is next to the Turkish coast, so it is called upon to suffer the consequences, thus opening a dangerous road to all the islands near the neighbouring country. But the geographical location of the island does not lead to less rights than other Greek regions and that applies to all islands. Therefore, the promotion of prefectures of international courts in which geostrategic interests exist to justify zero or reduced influence of the islands is one of the evil ones and falls under Article 121 of the International Convention on the Law of the Sea, which provides for full influence, such as the Continental coasts. To justify unjustified demarcation, the Government is talking about partial demarcation and is cultivating a expectation that they will be included in indefinite time. It is known that the Egyptian bourgeoisie has supported and supports the partial delimitation because it leaves the road open for settlements with Turkey or even so that it does not engage in Greek-Turkish controversy. The line of delimitation of the Greek and Egyptian EEZ was not established on the basis of the mean distance of 50% -50%. It is not a mean line, but a line with a proportional calculation chosen to sign the agreement. And this led to reduced influence of even Crete, of the largest Greek island, and to deletion of islands south of Crete. Ladies and gentlemen, the share of the EEZ was as follows: 44% Greece and 56% Egypt. However, geographical data do not justify such an unequal distribution. But here too, the position of the Egyptian side was satisfied to take the maritime zone south of the demarcation line, part of the Herodotus basin for which there are studies on the existence of hydrocarbon deposits. You are also using the argument that the Greek-Egypt agreement cancels the Turkish-Libyian pact. But this remains, is exploited and will be exploited by Turkish policy by arguing that the Turkish- Libyan Pact was signed by the Sarajean Government recognised by the United Nations and the European Union, by powerful imperialist states that have the responsibility of naval intervention in Libya in 2011 starring France. Drink water in her name. On the basis of the above, the JRC will vote against both agreements. Regarding the question of the extension of the gyalitis zone, the Communist Party of Greece argues that Greece, like other states, has the right to a yaalitis zone at twelve nautical miles. But there are problems. One concerns the partial expansion and exclusion of the Aegean. This entails the risk of being classified as a special case and being exploited in the wider bazaar. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The second is that the expansion of the gyalitis zone to the twelve nautical miles is involved in the bucket of conflicts and competition and cannot serve popular interests. In short, with or without extension to another zone in the twelve nautical miles, the New Democracy Government, like any urban government, will continue its policy of serving the interests of monopolies, the movements of urban classes and the involvement of the country in imperialist planning. The resolution of the problems relating to the kayalitis zone, the delimitation of a continental shelf and an EEZ in favour of our people is linked to the building of mutually beneficial relations between neighbouring states and peoples, the exploitation of marine wealth on the basis of popular needs, the releasing of the country by the imperialist alliances. The Communist Party of Greece is fighting for these goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u31	Until the step has been cleared, for reasons of parliamentary order, I inform you that Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou has formally tabled the request for a roll-call vote on a roll-call vote on Article 1 of the International Convention on Greece - Egypt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u32	The special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr Antony Mylonakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, the truth is that I was surprised by your initial position on the objection of unconstitutionalism put forward by the Greek Solution for the two agreements which, Minister, you signed alone with Italy, since you have of course taken free from Prime Minister Mitsotakis. There are two objections to anti-constitutionalism, I would like to say, which, in their speech so far, special speakers have put them on the table. Mr Marino of the Communist Party of Greece a few minutes ago spoke of an unfair agreement with Egypt, as well as an unfair leonte agreement with Italy. You asked us, Minister, gentlemen of the government, to agree. You have asked for national unity, you have asked for national understanding. But on what? Is there a national line agreed by the political leaders, the parties? He has asked directly since August, I remember, the President of the Greek Solution, Kyriakos Velopoulos, for the convening of political leaders on issues relating to our national interest, our national status. We have asked for the New Democracy to apply immediately what it had promised the Greek people about the infamousness, as it was called, of the Ambassadors' agreement. The New Democracy has not made any move, although we have asked for a committee of inquiry to see what has happened in signing this agreement. In our view it is a shameful betrayal agreement. And the New Democracy was talking about a treachery agreement before the elections. Not everyone, but some MPs. In this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, I am very surprised that some Members who are essentially responsible do not take the floor today. This is a very big impression not only to me, but to other parties, as other Members have said to me with whom I have spoken. It's not possible. Where is Angelos Syrgyrgos, a professor of international relations, who comes out on the channels every day and defends government policy, or does he, in any case, speak and determine the government's positions on foreign affairs? Where's Mrs. Marietta Giannakou, a serious politician? Where's Mr Manolak's general? Don't they belong in a club? Unless the New Democracy makes a club of people who need to talk about these two agreements. I'm really sorry, I'm surprised. Not that the Members who are going to speak are not capable, but I am surprised at some of the Members who are essentially responsible. In any case, I will listen carefully to a policy that I respect and is experienced in foreign policy, Mrs Bakoyannis, and I will also listen to Mr Kyridis. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have told you in my first speech in the committee that I do not think you believe these two agreements either. A national decision has not been taken, with the political leaders deciding what our attitude will be, the national line. I read today in 'SPIEGEL' and you can deny it, Mr Minister, that while you are pressing on the European Union and Mr Borrell, the Commissioner responsible for external affairs, for sanctions against Turkey, the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, promised the German Minister for Foreign Affairs, who was here yesterday - and, of course, saw Mr Tsipras - that there would be no sanctions, no sanctions. Sunday, short celebration, Minister. Tomorrow, on Friday we will expect to see what sanctions the European Union will impose on Turkey, in this aggressive outbreak of Turkey, which does not even say much or much of it says to us: 'Have a good look, do not move. And there will be talks between you and me, you will come to unconditional talks, and the terms are only ours. The conditions we set ourselves are, starting with Thrace for the Turkish minority, demilitarisation of the Aegean islands, what Turkey says, that is what the Foreign Minister, the "cat" Cavusoglu, says. How does the Greek Government answer? 'From the 28th and the east you have no right'. Don't they really have any rights? Can we take our freshness right now where the 'ORUC REIS' goes and walks and goes in, Minister? Unless he doesn't violate our national sovereignty. What you are saying is that the Turkish freshmen, the ornament, the 'ORUC REIS' should leave the area in which they are being investigated? Because he's doing research after all, Mr. Diakopoulos can't have lied to everything. That's why he finally left. You are asking us to vote in favour, to ratify two agreements. Two agreements, Minister, for which Mr Tsavosoglu and the Turks celebrate. "The agreement between Greece and Egypt is of interest," said Tsavosoglou. And after a while, the "ORUC REIS" entered and started research in our own maritime area. "The agreement with Italy is very good for Turkey," said Cavusoglu. I ask, is it possible for us to vote, welcome, ratify an agreement with Italy and one with Egypt, which is applauded by the Turkish Government? How do you ask us to do that? I am honest with the attitude of the parties. I did not expect that even the Communist Party of Greece will take a stand on the unconstitutionality of these two agreements. SYRIZA said "present" about the agreement with Egypt and at the same time calls for a roll-call vote. Why? For two reasons. Or why some members of the Officerial Representation have a different view, so they can be freely expressed and voted in favour of this agreement or why they want to humiliate the New Democracy. Can we see which of the super-patriots, Mr Katrugale, of the New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u34	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u35	That's it! Thank you very much. So here we have two things. New Democracy and SYRIZA go hand-hand. These are political games because if it were SYRIZA across these agreements, it would vote 'no'. In our national affairs, there is no yes but. There's something or something. It's not both. We can't be with the officer, Mr. Catrugale, and with the ranger, we can't do that. You cannot say'residents' because the agreement with Egypt is perpetuating. I see and write ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt on the delimitation of the Exclusive Economic Zone between the two States’. It doesn't write about partial delimitation. Watch the title. The title is wicked, no matter what the text says in it. I would like to ask you, therefore, why you are not taking a clear position, because the agreement is not good, since it confers our sovereign rights, since it gives 10% and, above all, what Mr Marinos said, I think you have said, too, given the Herodotus basin in two-thirds of Egypt. Egypt has closed a very good deal for it and has defined the Exclusive Economic Zone. Greece is losing. Greece lost. What's a partial influence? What's the title? And I asked Mr Loverdos who really does this. She didn't answer us yesterday. I don't know if he's gonna answer us today. Is the term "partial influence" in the Law of the Sea? I would like to see it please very much, because even Katrugalos and Mr Marinos have said that there is no partial influence, there is full influence. Unless we're all wrong. We would like to see what happens in part. Because by partial saying, Mr. Loverdos, from these little, the trivial, if you want to start the big ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u36	I didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u37	And I told you yesterday, read the book of Ignatios "From Imia to Madrid". Read the Madrid Agreement to see what it said. Mr. Pangalos said it. "Signature" all our foreign policy? What's going on here? Do we follow the Savior's foreign policy? Grill the Imias, are we taking this area down now? Ours? Where's the Highness' complex of being included in it? Fourteen whole islands! Why isn't it included in it? What does it mean to be included when it's decided? Why wasn't it decided now? Because the game is set. It's a plan since 1997. We will take a step - step by step, we will talk about a partial inexperience of the islands, we will close with Italy, we will talk with partial influence and the disappearance of zero influences of the complex of the greatest, that is, Kastelorizos, that is, that is, the partial influence of Rhodes, the partial influence of Crete, the Megalonissos. And then we go from the 28th to the 26th mediterranean to go up, Minister, and I don't know if this hot potato will be in your hands to ask the Turks for the demilitarization of our islands and the partition of the Aegean. Because at the end of the day these two agreements will come to an end. We're really afraid of this thing. You spoke of Exclusive Economic Zones. Since 2007, I think you have been in Parliament, Minister. I wasn't in the House. I was watching outside. He was the President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, who spoke of Exclusive Economic Zones. Why has no government dared so far to declare and demarcate the Exclusive Economic Zone of Greece - Cyprus? What was this obstacle, which vetoed every time either the Cypriots asked to demarcate with us the Exclusive Economic Zone or voices from Greece talked about it? Why didn't it happen? What's happened all these years? And what's going on today? Minister, I would like to ask you a question. At the Geneva meeting, Mr. Tsavosoglou asked you why we are not sitting at the negotiating table and you answered that we will have to deal with the Greek society and said to you: 'This is another thing'? Is that why the Turk started to harden his attitude against our country? Just think about it, please. You're an honest man. Not all of this can be done by a Nikos Dendas, it can't be done. This thing can't be done. Unless we've all made such a mistake. What is it that blackmails you? Who's blackmailing you? The Germans, who are the only ones who want this thing, as it seems at least. It is no accident that the German Foreign Minister's coming and it is no accident that his meeting with Mr. Tsipras is not. The Greek Solution is impossible, incomprehensible and would be criminal to vote and ratify these two agreements, an agreement with Italy in which the middle line disappeared, giving the Overseas Islands and Strofods 70% and 30% on the EEZ the influence, coming to the Agreement with Egypt to eliminate the entire complex of the Maximum partial influence on large islands and islands that are inhabited, have life. I fear you will come to the negotiating table under the pressure and blackmail of the Turks, who, instead of leaving the area as requested by the Greek Government, remain. And it will remain, he says, the "ORUC REIS" and the ornament and will be gone whenever he wants. By 2021 he'll make, he says, investigations. What do we do? We see it and come and do law, agreements, which are against the Greek people and our country? We therefore call on the Greek Government not to continue this foreign policy. The political leaders must be convened immediately. We're afraid that from now on things are going to be very difficult.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Mylonakis, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u39	I shall conclude, Mr President. The Greek Solution in conclusion is against these two agreements, Minister, is voting against them and calls on you to stop this slippery path taken by the Greek Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u40	Prepare the Step and close the list of rapporteurs and speakers with my colleague, Sophia Sakorafa from Mera25. Here, Mrs. Sacorafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming today to discuss the two agreements between Greece and Italy and Egypt on the crucial issue of maritime zones and EEZ respectively. As we have already pointed out, unfortunately, we are not discussing Greek moves that are part of a comprehensive national strategy, a national foreign policy planning. And I stress the regrettable fact that a situation is consolidated in which Greek foreign policy is exercised by means of moves which are merely reflexive, not to mention spasms, reactions to the moves of others, and in this case Turkey. Both these agreements would not have been signed if the notorious Turklibi memorandum had not been preceded. Greece is dragging once again behind the developments condemned to try to rescue that it can be rescued in the face of already shaped situations. The reflective nature of the agreements also defines the imperfections of their content in such a crucial issue, such as the delimitation of maritime zones and of EEZ. During the debate in the committee, we analysed the crucial points of the agreements, which demonstrate that national concessions existed for their destiny. That is why the Government has had to present the agreements with the necessary introduction that each bilateral agreement contains compromises. The important thing is that these compromises are concessions to the principles and provisions of international law and the law of the sea. However, this is supposed to be the'style stone' of the positions of Greek foreign policy, since we mainly place the support and protection of our national rights and interests. Both agreements do not comply with the rule of full influence of the islands which are supposed to be the permanent Greek position. Even with our ally and partner in the European Union Italy, while our objective was an EEZ agreement, we only reached an agreement on maritime zones. The delimitation is based on the old shelf agreement since 1977 and follows exactly the coordinates of that agreement. It is indicative, as I have said in committee, that the US Ambassador, Mr Piat, has publicly described this agreement as an example of how these things should be done. At the same time, however, he said that all the islands have the same rights as the mainland. This does not, however, apply to this agreement for all the Greek islands. The Foreign Minister, Mr Denktash, wanted to point out that this was an agreement between two sovereign states. Here one sovereign state recognises the right of free fishing to another in its own territorial waters, even under specific restrictions. At the same time, both sovereign states refer to the European institutions the amendment of the common fisheries policy in a manner compatible with the interests of both parties, as it says. Even in this they cannot agree on the two sovereign states. In any case, Italy is the shareholder and trade union owner of the Greek kayalitis zone and the European Union also assumes a co-management role. But let's move on. Both agreements do not guarantee the protection of Greek rights under international law and the law of the Sea. In the agreement with Egypt, the delimitation does not include Kastelorizo, but not even the entire Rhodes. Greece appears by deliberate omission to legitimise or prescribe the legalisation for the Turkish expansion strategy for the Eastern Mediterranean for years east of the 28th mediterranean, which cuts Rhodes down in the middle. Indirect but clearly we recognise and certainly appear to reserve rights in Turkey in this area. The agreement leaves the region uncovered after the limit of 27 and 59 and creates a gap in Greek sovereignty for Turkey's benefit. The crack here on Greek sovereign rights is obvious. I would remind you what Mr Angelos Syrgos wrote in 2015: "It is estimated that Egypt would prefer to sign with Greece a partial demarcation up to Crete and leave the rest of the region to the international one. The acceptance of such a proposal would be incorrect, would give the reasonable impression that Greece has given up its rights in the rest of the region.’ Anyway, let's go on. The agreement prescribes almost a certain perspective where the Megisti complex will fall within Turkey's mainland EEZ. Kastelorizo will be altered to ground enclosed by Turkish jurisdiction, condemned in a suffocating Turkish cord with all relevant absolute negative effects on the economic level. Furthermore, Egypt is entitled to intervene in the delimitation of Greece's EEZ with other States even in the delimitation of an EEZ with Cyprus. However, the most dangerous, ladies and gentlemen, is the regulation with Turkey, where Greece will probably be negotiating against two allies. We prescribe, in other words, the drastic weakening of our position. The agreement undermines the long-term Greek positions on two fundamental issues, on the average line and on the full impact of the islands on the demarcation. The content will have a direct negative impact on Greece's positions regarding the demarcation of other maritime areas. Finally, it is obvious that Greece is being dragged into confiscated agreements involving concessions from the principles of the Law of the Sea, but also erosion of Greek positions and interests. Apart from that, we prescribe inevitable future tensions, which we certainly do not have the political capacity to manage. And I stress that I am referring only to our political capacity and not to the military. I will repeat what I said in committee. Let us finally ask ourselves: is this a national plan? Is it possible to present itself as a national policy?'? Alas, if we end up acting on the basis of orders from others, even on such key issues, which concern directly the national interest and the prospect of our country. In the end, is that where his possibilities are exhausted, 'will we do what is necessary' so that they do not do what is necessary? The same tactic, of course, followed with persuasiveness by the previous government and now Dedicated Opposition. That is why, today, it cannot be said that it is a sensitive opposition. And I prefer to avoid any designation of the vote with the SYRIZA's'residents'. Let it be apologised to its members, and let the citizens be concerned. No more worthy of speech. We as a PART25 will vote against the ratification of the agreements, not on the basis of a pillistic targeting, nor of opposition micropsy. I repeat that in committee too. We shall vote firstly for reasons of principle. We are in the position that individual bilateral agreements for the delimitation of EEZs or maritime zones cannot be a solution for the South-East Mediterranean, where there is objectively a duplication of the impact zones of the States in the region. The specific geographical configuration of each full demarcation agreement between two states is a presumption that it will also include interference with the rights of at least one third country. The bilateral negotiations also have a crucial role to play in self-determination or imposed objectives, acting on the basis of their own interests, interests and priorities, such as the United States and Germany. A real and sustainable solution, with security and perspective, can only be found through a regional international conference of all the countries of the Eastern Mediterranean, aimed at resolving the EEZ and maritime boundaries. That is why we have proposed that Athens should take the initiative to convene this international conference, which will work in principle and in line with only the International Law and the Law of the Sea. Such an international conference will relieve the region of long-term transnational conflicts and political games, with dead-end diplomatic complications, hot-care and war tensions. At the same time, it automatically cancels the self-interest of any third country. One more thing. If a country is chosen, under any pretext, to refuse its participation in such a conference, it will be irreversibly exposed and will suffer the negative consequences. In other words, both the international isolation and the settlement of the conflict. Finally, I would remind you of the position of our party against mining. This is also a matter for the continental continental shelf, but also for EEZ. Our position is that we want the Greek EEZ to be guaranteed, to ensure that mining is prevented from taking place in the area. The delimitation of the EEZ is, of course, necessary for us and is crucial for the policy of 'green' transition and, in particular, for the development of an efficient network of renewable energy sources at sea. I shall conclude with some thoughts, which I am actually obliged to present after the debate in the committee. After my position, I was honoured by Mrs Bakoyannis, a political figure, with a specific history and scope, which has indeed been the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He wanted to mention that the agreements on maritime zones with all countries had been prioritised since 2005. I then read from the Minutes because it is of particular value. 'The strategic objective' - Mrs Bakoyannis says - 'it was to close the whole agreement bilaterally. Ms. Sakorafa, Greece cannot do Yalta. Don't be fooled now. Bilateral agreements had to be made, so that we could move on with Turkey, where during all these years the exploratory discussions were going on. That was the national strategy and that is the national strategy. From there on, there are other factors which undoubtedly either speed up or slow down the procedures." The disarming honesty of Mrs Bakoyannis managed admirablely to condone in a few phrases the concept and practice of the conservative party in Greece. First of all, we should appreciate Mrs Bakoyannis' efforts to convince us that there has been a long time since her State, in 2005, national planning and national strategy. Even if we accept it, however, it is of very little importance, because no agreement has been reached on real policy for so many years. With the exception of the agreement with Albania, which for certain reasons had the well-known unsuccessful conclusion, it is the only agreement we are discussing today, the first ones and, indeed, the specific content, which took place only after the Turklobian pact. Assuming you're convinced that you really had a national strategy, then you have to apologize for the catastrophic failure in its service. And I mean that all the governments of these decades should be accountable, which obviously includes those of your resignation. Mrs Bakoyannis told us, of course, that there are other factors, which are undoubtedly either speeding up or slowing down. Obviously! All these factors have contributed to the delay in the procedures, and the Turkish pact alone has been accelerating them. In practice, of course, we all know that. Unfortunately, in our foreign policy - and not just in it - the only factors that determine our ability to develop are the will and commands of our well-known international protectors. I guess that's what Mrs. Bakoyannis wanted to imply. Let us now come to her answer that Greece cannot do Yalta. It is certain that Mrs Bakoyannis - I believe this personally - is not unscrupulous. No way. He knows very well what Yalta was. It was the result of a world war, and in it the Great Powers defined among themselves the fates of the smaller nations, of course. And it certainly wasn't a random report at all. The concept of a conservative party is the only way in which decisions are taken and developments are defined. The big ones decide for the small ones, the strong ones for the weak. I will just say that our proposal sets out exactly the opposite, the removal from self-determined protectors and the settlement of the critical issues from the states themselves in the region. Again, however, we will find in front of us the argument 'Let us not be fooled, Greece does not have the opportunity'. I'm going to be like who's making fun of who. This is the well-known idea of the conservative party, both old and the one based on its policy, the idea of small Greece, a weak country that is doomed to be a subordinate, a merciless state that does not have the ability to protect its rights. This is also reflected in the statements made by the current Prime Minister that Greece is a given and obedient ally of the mighty to whom it expects protection. The term ‘according’ is used completely misused. Just describes in three words the subtle: "Data, obedient ally". Greek history has many examples of such statements. For Cyprus, who look away, that for the union of the Germans we will sacrifice the Greek allowances, that "we are not going to veto" the current government, etc. The whole history of our country is being persecuted by the attitude of governments who have been under the circumstances, clinging to the doctrine of this national realism, the weakness and have determined the fate of our country. Well, gentlemen of the Couple, things aren't like that. No country is small and weak unless this is the choice and limits of leadership policy. You, as it turns out, have chosen these limits for your extradition. Mrs Bakoyannis described it very enthusiasticly so that everyone could understand it. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] However, Greece deserves better luck and we who believe that will fight to overthrow this data. We remember that Greece, which you want to condemn as small and weak, gave asylum and care to the Palestinian fighters, brought Miteran and Gaddafi to the negotiating table and ended the French-libyian conflict in Chad. He played a leading role in the international peace initiative of the six, with global influence on the Peace Movement. A Greece which does not overestimate but refuses to exploit its potential. That is what our proposal for an initiative for an international conference is. You stay in the phony-patriotic rhetoric, which in practice translates into a passive and speculative attachment of Greece into the occult perpetrators of the international player in the region. Continue to function on the basis of the doctrine of small weak Greece, but do not forget in your reasons to always add the demagogic right account for the so-called strong Greece, an equal member of the European Union and NATO that is a factor of stability in the region. This has always been your tactic, sublime and retreat outwards and great misleading words about internal consumption! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u42	President Kyriakos Mitsotakis, President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, has the floor shortly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the exclusive theme of today's debate, let me begin by expressing my congratulations to the Port House, as well as to the Armed Forces, who worked together last night, in adverse conditions, to the biggest rescue operation in the Aegean, west of Halki. Under difficult conditions almost a hundred lives have been saved and treated by the Greek state. It is yet another transcript that our action in the seas is not only national but also humanitarian. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is the best answer to those who insist on spreading take news about Greece's allegedly indifference to people at sea. Ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting is a meeting of special importance, since the Greek Parliament is called upon to ratify two flagrant agreements with Italy and with Egypt, two official texts delimiting maritime zones between our countries, but also express regulations, decisive for our wider national interests. They therefore have a major historical and political weight. That is why I would like to point out - and the Minister for Foreign Affairs did so in the debate that took place in the committee responsible - that our reason, especially today, must also be measured and responsible. Because what will be heard in this Chamber is, at any time, documentary evidence that some may want to use it to undermine the country's national strategy. So let us, especially today, be very careful. That's why I'm only talking once. It's my intention not to secondary. The two agreements that we have before us have been signed with a few weeks' difference, but with the neighbouring states for decades. They are founded in International Law recognizing at the same time national EEZ and continental shelf, with sovereign rights in the sea on all our islands and, finally, they are perverting illegal action in the region, thus making our seas a new reality of peace and security. Above all, however, these two conditions mark the return of Greece to a role that not only deserves, but must already justify it on a daily basis, the role of the guarantor of the eastern borders, but also of Europe's interests in the Mediterranean, the role of the ambassador of international law, the role of the stable arm of dialogue and cooperation on this very troubled side of the map. It is precisely this role that is recognised internationally more and more strongly. That is why President Makron introduced the most important term 'European sovereignty in our sea' just a few days ago, referring to the Mediterranean. 'Mare nostrum', 'our sea', I remind you, were his words. While Chancellor Merkel spoke openly about rights of members of the European Union whose question cannot be tolerated. These are important statements that produce political facts. They are, of course, framed by similar positions of the United States, Israel and also important countries of the Arab world. Because, indeed, the Greek agreements with Egypt and Italy are bilateral. But they have power over everything. They emit global radiation because they enrich international practice with a bright example of transnational understanding, based on the principles of International Law and the Law of the Sea. It is a proof that systematic diplomacy can eventually overcome obstacles that seem insurmountable and bring mutually beneficial solutions. They therefore deserve congratulations to the Minister and to the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who have worked quietly and methodically and who have negotiated not only with dynamism, but also with skill, with their foreign counterparts, so that we can finally achieve this dual national success. Ladies and gentlemen, you are aware that for every development on our national front I personally inform the political leaders. This has happened before - I stress it before - since the signing of the Treaty with Egypt. And especially for the two recent agreements, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has already made a detailed presentation to the parties and here in Parliament, both at committee level and at plenary level, the debate is, as far as possible, a detailed one. That is why, from here on, the Step will be limited to just a few comments, following the chronological sequence of events. At the beginning of June, the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of Greece and Italy signed the agreement on the definition of maritime zones between the two countries. Appropriate amendments to the Annex to the Regulation on the common fisheries policy shall be notified to the European Commission together. This agreement is certainly a separate milestone because it is the first signatory to our country, the first to establish the boundaries of the Exclusive Economic Zone with a neighbouring country, but also because it responds positively to national demands. It is based on the Law of the Sea, it adopts the "average line" as a method of defining the zones, recognizing a continental shelve on the islands and sovereign rights in the seas around them. As, in fact, the Treaty with Italy follows the 1977 limit, which is also used to the practice and case law of the demarcations, it ensures that we have a holocaust and an EEZ in terms of their extent. It turns out, thus, that the country remains unresolved in its fixed positions for the 'average line' method, as well as for the influence of the islands, even when they are across the continental coast of another country, with a greater extent. For this reason, and against any reduced influence of some small islands, the "average line" moves in favour of Greece are compared to other demarcation points. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement with Italy was the precursor to the agreement with Egypt, always in the same spirit: our excellent bilateral relations should be upgraded by defining exclusive economic life in the Eastern Mediterranean, with the same background, the Law of the Sea and the same objective, to serve national interests while overcoming a chronic deadlock. Because you are well aware that with Egypt this issue has been raised in the 1980s. Bilateral discussions began in 2005, swirled in fourteen consecutive rounds and seemed to have no end. And all this while the gaps from the long-standing Greek Egyptian hesitation tried to cover third parties involved with void and provocative decisions that multiply the difficulties. In our consultation, it was our priority that the Agreement should be concluded under the International Convention on the Law of the Sea, because it is precisely the one establishing the principles of maritime demarcation, that recognises to islands sovereign rights and jurisdiction over all maritime zones, as well as the crucial presumption that in seas such as the Mediterranean, the surface and the boundaries of the continent are identical to those of the LOZ. The continental shelf, moreover, is well aware - it applies from the outset and automatically - ab initio and ipso facto as lawyers say - and certainly nothing prevents our country from expanding its territorial waters to twelve miles, whenever, of course, it considers this appropriate. First of all, the way to partial demarcation has been chosen. Of course, look out! Already since the first Article, the two parties expressly commit themselves to continuing negotiations on the continuation of the demarcation line. The immediate delimitation was undoubtedly urgent, as the illegal operation of Turkey is developing in the region to deal with Libya's forces to the detriment of the sovereign rights of other countries. In addition, a rapid partial delimitation had been proposed - I understand - and public opposition too. We have thus agreed on a demarcation line which serves the interests of both. I will not go into the details that are reflected in relevant maps. I will, however, note three key points: Firstly, the Greek sovereign rights zone is now growing by almost thirty-eight thousand square kilometres, added to the seventy-seven thousand square kilometres that emerged from the agreement with Italy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Secondly, the final demarcation line confirms that the islands have an EEZ and a corresponding continental shelf, given the crucial for Kastelorizo as well. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Thirdly, Greece actively retains its sovereign rights both in the region east of the 28th and west of the 26th, always in the context of international legality. With regard to the latter, it should be stressed that Egypt, in the course of the discussions and after many discussions with President Ceci, has reformed its initial inflexible position of the Agreement to relate only to the space between 26 and 28 November, has accepted, namely, the negotiation to continue and conclude with a wider subject, but agreeing that this partial demarcation is final and totally binding. In other words, Cairo rejected tempting proposals, which were supposed to bring Egypt much greater marine and underwater space. At the same time, he pledged to walk with Athens on the path of definitive demarcation and the rest of the regions. He effectively neutralised Ankara-Tripolis methods, demonstrating the subordinates of Turkish views, but also justifying the Greek positions on sovereign rights in the demarcated area. Ladies and gentlemen, the national, political and symbolic burden of the agreements currently being ratified by this House is much greater than the areas that are being mentioned, because the settlement of maritime zones with our neighbouring countries is, as I have said, lifting chronic loose ends, reintroducing international law as the main regulator of transnational relations, confirming all our national demands and, finally, allowing common resources to be used. It turns, in other words, the seas that divide the states into well-being that unite their citizens. Above all, however, the conditions with Italy and Egypt re-establish a legal status in the region, marginalise arbitrary unilateral practices and demonstrate that cooperation has a way of gaining a strict legal status in order to make a barrier to the most violent behaviours. And all of this did not happen, of course, either suddenly or at random. It has preceded multilateral, multi-level cooperation between the country and Israel, with Cyprus, with Egypt, with the United Arab Emirates, and Saudi Arabia. There were almost weekly contacts with European leaders, there was a strengthening of Greek-American relations, as well as firm contacts with the entire Arab world and Greece's decisive role in the Balkans. It is true that at times the country's foreign policy seemed to have only defensive features and rate rather slow that any developments in the future have been relegated. However, stillness marginalizes when the correlations around us are constantly changing. Inaction often restricts national targets. However, procrastination is not far from passivity. Often today's concerns are at risk of becoming painful compromises tomorrow. Forty-six years we have been invoking sovereign rights to which we have never given bilateral legal status. I would remind you that while the continental continental shelf and the LOZ do not constitute national territory, they are the field of exercise of sovereign rights. For this to happen, however, we must first of all demarcate ourselves according to the Law of the Sea. This active diplomacy is being pursued today by our country, a policy which is gradually unfolding on every front that concerns it... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ...a lot more as today there are forces that rush to fill gaps, caradocons to create fascinated, taking legality as discomfort and their own courage as the weakness of the other. They are, however, making a great mistake, because oligopoly no longer has a place in our foreign policy. For a year now this government has been talking a little, but it has been working a lot. It embodys the interests of the place at the juncture, combines determination with flexibility, creates alliances with a guide to International Law and, above all, does not hesitate to take bold initiatives that result in all open challenges. That is what we have also shown in Evros that has led Europe together to defend its eastern borders, not only Greece's borders, but Europe's borders! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That was also the first letter I signed with eight leaders who proved to be the precursor of the European Recovery Fund. This has caused France's recent active coexistence in the Eastern Mediterranean, and that is now confirmed by the agreements with Italy and Egypt. It is the result of a new patriotism, but now a compass of the country on the international stage. In this context, I announce to the National Representation today that directly with a bill submitted by the government, Greece extends the yacholitis zone to the west from six to twelve miles! Greece is growing! [[All standing Members of the New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] Others have said that. But we are the ones doing this! In this way, we are making a sea region, namely the Ionian and Ionian Islands, up to Cape Tina in the Peloponnese, the exercise of an undeniable sovereign right in accordance with Article 3 of the Convention on the Law of the Sea. A right which our country reserves to exercise in the future in other maritime areas and which our neighbours have already exercised with respect to the Convention on the Law of the Sea and the implementation of the average line where the distance between the coasts is less than twenty-four miles. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has already informed the counterparts of Italy and Albania about this decision. It will soon also visit Tirana to discuss with the Albanian Government the final solution to the pending delimitation of maritime zones on the basis of the Convention on the Law of the Sea, in which both countries are parties. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps there is no better confirmation of the correctness of our choices than the spasmist reactions that are unfortunately causing to neighbouring Turkey, not to its people, but to its leading group. A staff member who insists on using words only to shout and not to discuss and actions only to provoke and not to compose. That is why he is becoming more and more captured in the nets of political and diplomatic isolation. Why is it that condemning Ankara's actions in the Mediterranean from all over the world? And how different from a desperate dehydration can it be the last provocative decision to turn into a mosque the pan-human monument of the Chora Monastery of Constantinople? This downside, I fear, is not a momentary event. It is part of a lasting crisis that is a strategic defeat and will escalate if this wrong choice is not changed in time. The more people will trample under international law, the more they will be treated by the international community as riots. I will not go much further, because our positions towards the neighbouring country are crystal clear. Our determination to defend our national rights has already appeared where and as necessary our armed forces are always on guard. The strong Greece in the field, however, feels so strong at the dialogue table. Because the weapons of international law, good neighbourly relations, civilized behaviour are weapons irresistible. Greece therefore has every reason to lead Turkey to the point of legality. That is why I will repeat that the way to reach agreement on the one open issue we have with Turkey, that of demarcation of maritime zones in the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean, is open, can also open up for Ankara on one condition, but it can immediately stop the challenges. In history, however, the Greeks first established the olive grove industry. So they know that he cannot have thorns. So six words are enough. Challenges are being stopped. Let's start the discussions. Ladies and gentlemen, I close without any reference to the pandemic and its consequences. This huge issue will concern us - I imagine - and in the days ahead. I do not want to undermine the importance of the national issue that we have before us today. Because the armoring of the country is not an option, it's a check. And that is exactly what the agreements with Italy and Egypt are about to be ratified. Today I spoke to you clearly and honestly, fully aware of the history of the moment. At such a time, abstention from today's vote means abstention, and the awkward'residence' is equal to abstentions from historical responsibility. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I understand, Mr Tsipras, that you have requested a roll-call vote. It will be the first time in this Chamber that a request for a roll-call vote is made to finally vote 'at present' and not to express a clear position on such a crucial issue. This must be done on your own initiative and on your own fault. I would like to ask you to reassess this request for a practical reason. Because the Minister for Foreign Affairs must go to the Council of Ministers tomorrow with the agreement voted on and not for regular reasons to delay you to resolve your internal objections. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I wonder whether there will be a party discipline in this matter on your part. Because I do not think there can be any party discipline that undermines national responsibility, because not a few of your Members have advocated the agreement. So let us see how they will vote in the roll-call vote that you are causing! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In any case, it would be a wish to revise your opinion on what you will vote on and not just on how you vote, because the national line must be clear, it must be common, it must be straightforward. It shouldn't be blurred or devastated. That is why I think that the vote on this agreement from all the sides of the House is necessary, despite the individual objections, reservations and objections which have been expressed in committee and which have been recorded and taken into consideration by the Government. It is very important for us all together to give united added power to the implementation of international law and to guarantee our national rights. It is very important to empower everyone from this Chamber, friends and opponents, a strong signal of strong and responsible policy, and an example of a diplomacy which is in motion, a diplomacy with a plan, with a view to solutions of harmonious, coexistence and creative cooperation. The two Agreements with Italy and Egypt can be converted into two positive steps in question by historian Fernand Brudell. He said about the Mediterranean when he wrote in the middle of the 20th century that "geography is a lever that slows down history". Today we can tell him that in the first decades of the 21st century it is up to us all to make our common sea a creative accelerator of history. Let's dare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u44	Mr Alexis Tsipras, President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, is in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we are going through an extremely critical period of tension in the region, a critical period for Greece, for Cyprus, for Greek-Turkish relations, because we have a Turkey that is becoming increasingly aggressive toward us, taking advantage of the support given to it by the international factor, which is provided by the United States of America to Libya, by exploiting weaknesses of the European Union. It is a neighbour who wants to play a regional force, to become a naval force in the Mediterranean with a leader who especially after 2016 is in another sphere. He considers himself a global leader of the Islamic movement and does not hesitate to provoke with his statements and his behavior. We have a Turkey that has not hesitated to conclude an illegal memorandum with the Prime Minister of Libya - it has not been ratified by the Libyan Parliament - an irresponsible legal memorandum, which, however, violates international law and does not hesitate - soon, says - to declare land in this area illegally south of Crete. We have a Turkey that intensifies the infringements in the Aegean Sea and continues to violate the Cyprus Exclusive Economic Zone. We have a Turkey that has done an inhumane job of refugees and migrants in Evros in order not only to blackmail Greece, but above all to blackmail the European Union. And we have a Turkey which has long been a member of a reformist concept, reasonable to international conditions and, recently, to a provocative move has turned Agia Sophia into mosques by violating fundamental universal values. And we also have a Turkey that, over the last fifteen days, has violated our country's sovereign rights in Kastelorizo, east of the 28th and threatens one of its neighbours, threatens Greece. In the face of this Turkey it is obvious that unity is required. Faced with this unprecedented aggressive but clear strategy, on the other hand, one cannot claim that one does not understand what our neighbour is doing, one cannot claim that it does not have a strategic aim to challenge our sovereign rights in the Eastern Mediterranean, but also in the Aegean. In the face of this Turkey, we obviously have to be united, but that is not enough. There are not enough reasons for unity. A clear national strategy is also needed with principle, middle and end. I listened carefully to Mr Mitsotakis' speech in the hope that even at these critical times I will be able to see elements of this structured national strategy towards a neighbour who is escalating an aggressive strategy. I am sorry, but I did not collect this strategy, I did not understand this strategy. He said at the beginning of his speech that we should all be careful today. We have historical responsibility, however, for all of us to speak the language of truth at a critical time in the national Parliament. It is also an obligation for the country's counter-multiple and, above all, the Officerial Response to speak the truth in national matters, and it is the duty of the government in question as well. So to us, ladies and gentlemen, it was and will be clear that such a national strategy with the beginning, middle and end can and must have two very specific objectives: firstly, the decisive defence of our country's sovereignty and sovereign rights, and, secondly, the reopening of the exploratory talks with Turkey to resolve our dispute over the continental shelve that is identified with the AEZ by means of an appeal to The Hague, if necessary, if the investigation fails again. Because Greece is a peaceful country, it is a country that wants good neighbourlyness, dialogue, national relations, it is a country where its arguments stem from international law, but at the same time a country determined to defend its sovereignty and its rights at all costs. This is the message the country sends, it emits, and it must continue to transmit. This must be a strategy with clear objectives and with a framework for these objectives to be served. For us it is clear that they can only be served if Greece is a pillar of peace, stability and security in the region actively promoting international law through an active and multi-dimensional foreign policy. This, Mr Mitsotakis and ladies and gentlemen, was Greece who, after thirty years, left the policy of immobilisation and solved in its interest and in the interest of the region, the issue of the name of our northern neighbours with the Prespecies Agreement so that today the air defence of our northern neighbours is covered by the Greek Air Force and not by Turkey. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This was Greece that, through this agreement, reversed not only the fate of northern Macedonia, but two countries at our northern border and Albania, in order to completely collapse, as was apparent in 2017, and become the slaves of Turkey and other forces, eventually took European orbit. This, Mr Mitsotakis, was Greece, which has ever come closer to the fair and sustainable resolution of the Cyprus issue, proposing the right demands in the negotiation, and has fought for the valuable acquis of the Gutiéras framework, the abolition of guarantees, that is, the withdrawal of the occupation army from Cyprus. And it is an acquis that is the framework of Gutierres, from which the talks must and must be relaunched. This was Greece that first secured the condemnation of Turkey in the history of the European Union last year in June, for its actions in the Aegean Sea and in the Cyprus EEZ, but also a valuable framework for sanctions, which you did not use. This was the Greece that took the lead in 2015-2016 in the Euro-Turkish dialogue, with three visits at the time in Turkey, and which made a commitment to the neighbour for the first time to drastically reduce the flows and accept migrant returns. This was Greece, which established, together with France, the European countries of the south, which also launched in 2018 the strategic dialogue with the United States, which established multilateral partnerships in the Balkans and the Eastern Mediterranean, which agreed on the EastMed pipeline and guaranteed the shape "3+1" with the United States and Israel. This was therefore the Greece of active, multidimensional foreign policy, the pillar of peace, security, cooperation, but also the decisive force to defend the international law and its sovereign rights resulting from it. The question is what is going on today. For this Greece was decisively defending its sovereignty through the Greek Armed Forces, strengthening alliances in favour of the country, promoting dialogue. So I listened to you today and wondered what we are doing, how many dangers we are running if we continue without a strategy. For what all Greeks have seen, for 15 days, cannot hide. It is a government that is unable to defend its own decisions, good or bad, but is unable and above all unable to effectively defend our sovereign rights east of the 28th mediterranean. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It is a government that watches the European Councils pass, one after the other, with our alliances for sanctions in Turkey weakening rather than strengthening, despite the escalation of violations, a government which agrees with regulations in relation to maritime zones, which can cost us dearly in the future, and a government that firmly proposes dialogue in Turkey, but has no concrete plan on how to return to this dialogue. We are particularly concerned about that, too. To be quite clear, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr Mitsotakis, you have decided to sign the Agreement on the demarcation of the EEZ with Egypt, an agreement which we have actually negotiated in many rounds and the earlier ones have been negotiated, and you have done well. You know very well that not only have I supported and supported the Greek - Italian agreement, despite the serious compromises on which it was based - but we are fully aware that there is no international agreement without compromises, it is enough for this agreement to be forward - not only has we publicly supported the need to reach an agreement with Egypt to water down Turkey's illegal agreement with the Libyan Prime Minister, but also, in my public statements, I have underlined and that we support a partial agreement that allows the region of the Kastelorizo complex to be demarcated at a later stage. And I have had the courage to say, in talks that include Turkey, because we are not in the strategy of alleged isolation of a country like Turkey. We are clearly saying our strategy. And that was our design. But what do you do right now? I shall refer to three main points of criticism. First, you finally signed an agreement that didn't dare even approach the Turkish red line of the 28th mediterranum, leaving out not only Kastelorizo, but half of Rhodes. And you signed without any prediction and no plan for the defence of our sovereign rights east of the 28th mediterranum, in the patterns of deterrent actions that you know, know them, and our armed forces, since they had to implement them successfully in the past - and I am referring to 2018. I want here to be clear so I don't get any misunderstandings. Our Armed Forces and today, as in 2018, as in ever, have accomplished and perform the tasks assigned to them by absolute professionalism, self-depression and temptation, as required. But the executives don't decide the operational planning. They are recommended to the CSCE, but it is the political leadership - and rightly so - that decides on planning. And your decisions were decisions about the eyes of the world, they were decisions on communication. Our foreign policy, however, and the defence of the country is not communication, and I wonder why we had to watch this whole operetta, this sad performance for our country, where you said that the Turkish research vessel was not doing any research, because there is - it says - noise from the adjacent ships, from the Turkish wells accompanying it. It is not researching, so it does not violate our sovereign rights. So why ask for the activation of international law, and of international law, and of the European Union for sanctions, since it does not carry out investigations, but does walk around? These clear contradictions one faces when he walks with his unique compass and when in his mind all he has is how he will calm down his inner-party audience, who learned to wear chlamydas in the shallow waters of the Prespes, but now he wears pajamas in the deep waters of the Aegean. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] They will all assume their responsibilities, Mr Mitsotakis. The three hundred MPs have a responsibility at critical times, and the country-critical agreements must be ratified not only by the vote of the parties, but also by the vote of the last Member, who must come to Parliament to assume his responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u46	The 'present' is non-voting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u47	Yeah, yeah, I'll explain what it is. Because, in your logic, those who object, those who object, those who criticise not even speak - you told us at the beginning of your speech, don't talk, laugh, Greece - but also vote 'in favour' in the name of the national interest or 'in favour'. In other words, you are equal, as you did in the Prespecies Agreement, which you were 'in favour', which you kept, kept and honored, but you voted against by taking off the Greek people and dividing them, taking him on the road to protest and protest. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We will also be taking national responsibility here. But don't interrupt me, listen to my criticism. I'm still on the first point of criticism. The first point of criticism is that you have gone ahead without having a clear operational plan to defend our rights after the 28th mediterranean, which you left out of the agreement. And more tragic, of course, it is not only that anyone who was telling the truth forced him to resign, such as your National Security Symbol, Mr Diakopoulos, who, for reasons of self-esteem and dignity, told the truth, is what I said to you, that by yourself with this rhetoric you are weakening the country's arguments at international level, unless you can explain to me how the violation of our sovereign rights took place without Turkey carrying out investigations, as you were saying. But let's go to the second point of criticism. You signed the Agreement with Egypt, not only without defensive prevention planning, but also without diplomatic planning. While Turkey has committed the most challenging violation of our sovereign rights over the last 20 years, not only have there been no joint declaration of twenty-seven, not only did you not have a plan to strengthen the voices in favour of the prospect of sanctions in the European Union, but even our close allies have advocated that this debate be entered into the Greek bells. However, if you had listened to us and opened the debate on sanctions very early - we have been shouting since the first days of your governance - even in November, after the Turkish pact was concluded, instead of your responsible ministers then say that it is your strategic decision not to ask for sanctions and not to raise a question of sanctions and if you had heard our suggestions in the context of a strategy that was targeted and did not ask from June - but did we at the European Council then - accidentally see Turkey's strategy? Do you remember that? Mr Varvitsiotis sits next to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and if I'm not mistaken you were a deputy when you said that. Here are your statements, 17 December 2019, “Prime decision of the Government not to raise a question of sanctions at this stage”. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] If, too, you had decided to play a leading role in the Euro-Turkish dialogue that was reopened in March, instead of being absent, and if you had pressed for a summit of the European countries of the South to strengthen our alliances in the Mediterranean, it might have been different today. At this point I would like to stress that it is unacceptable for the European Union not to assume its responsibilities and to represent the neutral mediator in these developments, to decide every three and a little sanctions for violations of third country rights, but to whistle indifferently or at best represent the arbitrator when it comes to violations of the sovereign rights of a Member State - a Member State of the European Union. That is unacceptable! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Third point of criticism, the medium- and long-term consequences of the agreement. You have reached an agreement that can create very negative precedents for the country, if we let Turkey take advantage of it in its well-known rotating way. I will not only focus on the criticism of the reduced influence on our biggest island, on Crete, but also on other islands, or on the fact that you accepted to take into account only one piece of Rhodes and not the entire island in demarcation. However, I would like to stress that you are insisting, even today, that you do not answer the question, not to tell us whether the principle of proportionality was used in this agreement, rather than the principle of the average line. This is crucial because it changes a strategy to address, our national strategy changes in the areas of Exclusive Economic Zones. That is crucial and you need to answer that. I want to be perfectly clear. If you want, Mr Mitsotakis, a genuine national understanding to address this great challenge for the country, called "Greek Turkish relations" with a neighbour who escalates his provocativeness, you have nothing but finally to call for the convening of the Council of Political Heads to record the positions of the political forces and the government and to conclude, if possible, a national strategy. You choose to keep up to date, I don't confront. Indeed, let me know and I have no complaints about this. But here we are not talking about simple information, here we are talking about consultation and a national strategy. You don't want it. If you want to reach agreement on a national strategy aimed at restarting the exploratory and appealing to The Hague, if necessary, as we wish, you should speak openly to the Greek people, as we spoke openly in an historic agreement, that of the Prespecies, because your party, Mr Mitsotakis, was the one that rejected Helsinki when the country had the opportunity to resolve the only dispute with Turkey, in that continental shelf. Your party is the one that established the doctrine of total influence on all the Greek islands in the negotiations and you were along with the Change Movement to the Government of Mr. Samaras that you voted for the law of Maniatis, according to which in the absence of an EEZ agreement the boundaries of the continent - in this case Kastelorizos - is at the ultimate limit of 100% influence of all islands as well as of Kastelorizos. You have set these limits of national red lines, and we have set these limits, these red lines for four and a half years, we have honoured them and defended them, because the national lines that are decided and voted on are not just a card. We honored them, what are you doing now? You are now coming to change this frame of our national line. If yes, say it open, not mocking and lying. One doesn't do research because the wind that was blowing and it was west, but he took it from the other side, the other doesn't investigate it because it's a fuss. What's this? I think you are the last people to speak of bilingualism in foreign policy. Your former President, the former Prime Minister of the country, Mr Samaras, and high-ranking officials of your own party for so many years have expressed the need for agreement on the exclusive Economic Zone of Greece - Cyprus, without third parties, directly, by the assessment that Kastelorizo has 100% influence, because if Crete has 90%, Kastelorizo has 90%? Does he have 110%? It can't be done. They all spoke against the financial agreement. Where are they today? They're on vacation. So don't move now the finger on the Left, which in four and a half years has managed to protect our alliances and dialogue with Turkey to keep alive and upgrade the country's geopolitical dynamics. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I fear that none of this is possible today, and I say this with great pain because we cannot welcome it in national matters. The ship on which we are sailing is common. It's the country. He has to go forward. But this weakness that I see cannot be hidden behind a reasonable approach to the issues through communication, nor, of course, can you ask us to silence and stigmatize anyone who criticizes you. If he's yours to fire him, if he's in the opposition, you'll rank him across the street. We are giving, he says, arguments to Turkey. That's what you're telling us. You do the same with the pandemic. Anyone who criticizes you is sprayed. This is a complete concept of democracy and politics. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It's dangerous. As far as national issues are concerned, however, it is also the duty of the political forces to record their position, to speak the language of truth, not to self-determination. A few days ago your Government spokesman, the same Government representative who had accused the Civic Opposition, reminds you, as Turkey's Trojan - and on the other hand you resign because we do not want conciliation - said that tensions with Turkey are mostly verbal. He told us that our attitude is irresponsible. You obviously mean that it is a responsible attitude to vote against, when you have disagreements or are responsible for being applauded for an agreement that lacks a national strategy can lead the country to serious developments that no one wants to see. I assure you that. We have a responsibility to prevent. But today, ladies and gentlemen, despite our serious disagreements on this agreement and the lack of strategy on the part of the government, we are not moving towards a sterile and equitable opposition. We cannot vote in favour of this agreement. I explained the reasons. Everyone assumes a historical responsibility. History may not make our fears vindicate. I'm telling you, honestly. We shall not vote against, however, because we are fully aware of the importance of voting against an agreement which, despite its weaknesses, cuts the Turkish - Libyan illegal pact and an agreement which, perhaps, as you do, will very soon be called upon to implement and manage the Turkish - Libyan memorandum. We're not going to do that like the Prespes. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We recognise the criticality of the period that we are going through for the country. But we are not plundered into ethnicism, as you have done, not just in the Prespecies. In the refugee crisis you said that SYRIZA brought refugees and that it was all the fault. When I was in Turkey, or when President Erdogan came here, they would go out and say that you trust Erdogan more than the Greek Prime Minister at the time. That's what you said. You did so personally, Mr Mitsotakis, when you dare in this Chamber say that I sold Macedonia to earn pensions. You didn't have the courage to ask public for an apology a year and a half later. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But that's who you are. A flag of opportunity for national issues. To prove this to you, I have nothing but to remind you of what you were saying a year ago almost for the government's past decision to extend the territorial waters to twelve miles in the Ionian Sea when we announced it on the departure of Mr Kotzia from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and when I announced that after the European elections I will bring it to Parliament by law rather than by a presidential decree. I have here to give you the statements by the Head of State at the time of the New Democracy, Mr Kumucaku. He said “with unprecedented preoccupation Mr. Kotzias and Mr. Tsipras separate the country in the middle. They proclaim the expansion of our territorial waters only in the Ionian Sea, and indeed with the consent of Mr Tsipras." He was talking about Kotzia. "They gave Turkey the opportunity to insist on its well-known position that the Aegean cannot fully implement the Law of the Sea, because it is allegedly a special case. Once again, the government with cheap impressions is undermining fundamental positions of our foreign policy." [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left coalition, Mr Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] That's what you said. Today you all stood up to celebrate, but that's what you were saying last year. "If the government's reasoning is adopted then a partial extension of our territorial waters will take place which creates a negative precedent for the country." These are statements by Mr Kumucaku, here, in the House. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left coalition, Mr Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] "Foreign policy is not a field for stunning exercises and even when the juncture has the characteristics of tension. Don't do it." he urged us. "You know that I am referring to the thought you have leaked or notified of some of the actions you are considering in the Ionian for the extension of territorial waters. Don't do it," you told us. That's who you are. Foreign policy on national issues of the country flag of convenience each time depending on whether you are in the government or in the opposition. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left coalition, Mr Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] So you want to do a nice cubicness in the sea zones and extend to twelve miles in the Ionian Sea. Welcome to cubism. But have the courage to say it. Do you want us to support a dialogue with Turkey, to set the clear guaranteed conditions for the country's interests? You must have the courage to say this and, above all, to inform us in advance rather than to learn from Mr Tsavosoglu that your diplomatic counsellor with Erdogan's diplomatic adviser is in Berlin and are negotiating. We wouldn't have told you not to go. But have the courage. And have the courage to admit it instead of saying that there are talks that are supposed to be going on between service actors. You want national understanding. Stop putting communication above all else. Stop splitting the Greek people by imitating the worst traditions of your resignation. You know what? Neither you nor anyone in this country has the right to ask for certificates of national physics from anyone, especially from the Left and the Democratic world. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Besides, the patriots and merchants of nationalism live exclusively in your own home, not in our own home. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So stop this game. Stop firing anyone who's telling the truth. Stop pouring anyone who criticizes your foreign policy as irresponsible or philosophical, who is supposed to give arguments to the other side. These are the prerequisites, if you really want national understanding of a firm national strategy with the beginning of the middle and end. Mr. Mitsotakis, I will close my intervention with the words of one of your short-sighted ones whose homeland owes much. I know you admire him. I'm talking about Eleftherios Venizelo. So he said the politician must have the gift to see beforehand what others see. If he did not have the gift, it is impossible not to lead his homeland to calamity and destruction. I say this because the moments we're going through are critical and we need to see what's coming. So I urge you not to take my position as a firm criticism of your Government, but as a constructive attitude to national responsibility. I urge you to speak frankly to the Greek people, because the national is always the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u48	The President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) is now in office.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are here today to talk about very critical national issues and only about them. However, because there are very serious issues relating to the coronary pandemic that employs Greek citizens, I would like to ask the Prime Minister's Rules of Procedure to accept before day-to-day discussion at the level of the Heads of State, to discuss issues relating to the protection of public health, but also to open up the schools, because the old ageing and lack of planning are also concerned with us, but especially with the Greek citizens asking for answers and asking for a concrete plan on these issues. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not vote 'no' or 'no' on this crucial issue. At this time, which requires a sense of responsibility from all of us, the Change Movement does not hide the head in the sand, but puts back on the place. Because that means to us 'patriotism'. Patriotism is a part of our identity. And how do we understand him? We put above all our country. We do not retreat on matters of sovereignty, but also on the defence of our sovereign rights. With respect to International Law, using our alliances and, of course, we love our country, but we do not hate our neighbours. Ladies and gentlemen, this patriotic stigma has been the seal of PASOK since all the years of post-multipleism and has defined the role and power of the country in previous years. We never saw Greece as a small regional country waiting for the decisions of others to see what will happen to her, what will come dawn on her. On the contrary, we saw it and now as an important player in the region, a country joining the European Union, and we fought at difficult times for this place to keep it within the European Union and, of course, with large international organisations. What does national policy mean that leaves a stigma and identity stamp? It means joining EMU means the accession of Cyprus to the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, our country today has been paying the price of the absence of a national strategy for nearly the last decade. Under the responsibility of the New Democracy and SYRIZA, it pays the party agendas, their obsessions, their ambiguities, and it is too many times, I am saying this, unfortunately, about the place where they were caught in sleep on national issues, which did not anticipate in time the moves of Turkey and its geostrategic views. So the big issue today, ladies and gentlemen, is above all where Turkey is taking it, but at the same time what our national strategy is that can put a brake on its own plans. Is there? And how effectively do we defend our sovereign rights? Prime Minister, I would like to tell you directly that you are also following the logic of'seeing and doing' in foreign policy. Engrave the country's foreign policy really on the leg. Not all of your last moves stem from an integrated national strategy and this - today especially we see this depopulation of Turkey - can be extremely dangerous for the interests of the country. Prime Minister, you follow, you do not take the lead, and this is one of the biggest problems facing our foreign policy at this time. You don't lead. This deficit would never exist with PASOK governments, with the governments of the democratic party. Ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear that Turkey has now chosen a different strategy from the European road. Now Turkey is developing a new Ottoman strategy, attempting to revise the treaties, and it itself is being promoted as a strong regional force, a protagonist of Muslims in the wider region. A power that seeks to speak with all the powerful countries and international organisations, on all its own terms. Today, therefore, the European Union, the United States of America and NATO must realise that Turkey's moves are not just about our country, but are a threat to peace and security in the wider region. This is your responsibility, Prime Minister, to do so. When they talk about de-escalation, they should expressly refer to Turkey alone. What were our moves toward the neighboring country? Why are they talking like we've both been having a problem in our behavior and attitude all the time? So I told you that it is very much your responsibility for everyone to understand exactly what is happening and take their responsibilities in particular and, in practice, because only your clear attitude will trigger them all. The European Union, which must not allow this policy to continue from Turkey, with specific sanctions, but also NATO that must stop inaction and the policy of equal distances and cannot continue to do so, that it does not understand, that the sovereign rights of a Member State are being violated by another Member State. I have said this before, Turkey does not only understand from declarations. Specific sanctions are needed. And he showed it in the clearest way, as he responded to the German initiative, demanding, in fact, unconditional dialogue. They cannot, therefore, continue to do that they do not understand Turkey's actions in Syria, Cyprus, Libya that breaks the embargo, the transformation of Agia Sophia and the Chora Monastery into a mosque, the attempt to break the European borders in Evros, as well as blackmail with immigrants and refugees. Of course, I find it incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen, that the 'ORUC REIS' continues to swing around the Aegean Sea and directly violate our sovereign rights, attempting to indirectly delimit arbitrary and illegal maritime zones. Really, Mr. Mitsotakis, I've been wondering by watching all these last few days that you meant when you told us that no challenge is going to remain unanswered by your government? Turkey therefore insists on extending NAVTEX illegally. Dialogue with Greece, which has been pressing for large countries and which seems to have been a mediation role for Germany, Turkey obviously wants to be blackmailed following the creation of a fait accompli, and after action which, in its opinion, will bring it into force, even today, has continued its aggressive challenges in Halki. So it's clear what the Turks want. The question is how do we respond? Temperature cannot be considered as weakness. For us, the investigative contacts cannot be made with the ORUC REIS to directly violate our sovereign rights. And that is what we all have to agree on in this Chamber and send this strong message everywhere in every direction. And the dialogue should only concern our real difference in demarcation between us of LOZ and continental sea zones, and this should also be made clear in every direction. We, at least, are discussing this only and if dialogue does not end up, our position is only a promise on this issue and an appeal to the International Court of Justice in The Hague. This is a clear position, a clear strategy and we have said it publicly, officially from this Step from December 2019. I am pleased that more and more political forces tend to adopt this view. Greece has never denied dialogue with Turkey and its neighbours. But, Mr Mitsotakis, I would like to ask you directly, do you think that this dialogue with Turkey can be held to put the gun on the table? This is not dialogue, this is pure extortion. And I want to make it clear today that at least we, the Change Movement, cannot accept that and we want a clear answer from you. Is it possible to continue under these circumstances? You have a great responsibility for this. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people are demanding determination, unity and, above all, efficiency. How's that gonna happen? He needs a sluggish national front. Is there? No, unfortunately you do not allow it to be shaped. You deny it all this time, and you know how critical the situation is. I told you before that he's on his way without a national line. Your choices are undoing one another, your policy is distinguished by instability and contradictions. But there are, Prime Minister, red lines that no one has the right to ignore and allow to be violated. Prime Minister, in the last two weeks we have seen a ping pong with the NAVTEX version between Greece and Turkey. I said before that the "ORUC REIS" is swinging around the edges of the Greek continent almost undisturbed with the Greek public not to know what the reality is. We were informed by the former advisor of National Security, Mr. Diakopoulos, that the Turkish research vessel normally stretched its cables within the Greek continent and instead of being informed then we and the Greek people from your Government about what really happened, all we learned is that you left him alone. So we are waiting here today from this step to give us answers, Prime Minister. What really happened? You reluctantly refuse to ask the President of the Republic to convene the Council of Civil Liberties. I have been asking for the Change Movement for a long time since we distinguished the dangers of our foreign policy and our national issues. Now it has recently begun to adopt this proposal and the Qualified Opposition, as a government, of course, also strongly refused it. Why do you deny it? For the same reason that your predecessor has refused it, because you want to have your hands broken, because you do not want to make any commitment at all. You have chosen to handle all the issues on your own and it is clear that you have chosen the secret diplomacy as well. But I must remind you that all this in the recent past has finally led to concessions and concessions. So don't forget that. With your refusal to create the necessary national line, Prime Minister, you have fully assumed your responsibilities - you have to take them - you are solely responsible for what is happening in our national affairs and our foreign policy. But the absence of a national line also leads to another phenomenon of reef nationalism and you must take this very seriously into account. The country at the moment needs genuine patriotism and, as far as we are concerned, we will not allow populism and patriocoagulation to prevail on these issues. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the two agreements are concerned, the agreement on the delimitation of the EEZ with Italy has now been considerably delayed, but not until recently. Should the Government explain to us, of course, exactly what influence it has recognised for the Ionian Islands, particularly in its northern part, and whether this can adversely affect the demarcation agreement with Albania and what fishing rights it has recognised in Italy in the Greek territorial waters to reach the agreement? I would like to make it clear that we will be voting on this agreement because it resolves a long-term stalemate in accordance with the principles of international law and strengthens the country's position. Now, with regard to the extension of the territorial waters you announced to the Ionian Sea, I would like to say that we have heard that from both Mr Tsipras and Mr Kotzia. Of course they never did, they never finished it. He needs a little attention. Foreign policy cannot be exercised in terms of communication, and it takes twice as much attention at this juncture and with the deficit of an overall strategy, because you are in danger of saying that you, with your initiatives and your choices, are marking areas of our sovereign rights and leading the Aegean to a special regime. Be careful you must not say this in or out of Greece. At least we want this to be averted. So it must be very clear that such a choice is only the beginning. Now with regard to the second agreement with Egypt, it is true that we have been negotiating for 15 years, Prime Minister. All these years, however, we have sought the complete delimitation of our maritime zones, not a total agreement, but a partial agreement. So don't celebrate the deal, it's a forced option. And as far as we are concerned, there was no chance that we could vote on it and accept a partial demarcation if the illegal Turkish turmoil had not been prior to it. The first thing you need to make clear and commit, Mr Mitsotakis, is that a partial agreement does not mean a withdrawal from the fixed positions of our country and we do not grant anything to prevent any suspicion of creation beyond the 28th of September from Turkey. We therefore expect a clear statement from you today on this matter. The Change Movement votes 'yes' in the agreement. Why? Because we believe that the illegal Turkle pact is indeed being pervaded. It does not cancel, as your parliamentarians and ministers say. I would remind you that you told us it was illegal and void. It's illegal. Annulled, unfortunately, it has been shown that at least in practice it has not yet been done. Prime Minister, let me tell you that all we know about the demarcation agreement with Egypt is that it is perverting the Turkish pact. For all the rest there is a multitude of speculation and appreciation, which is extremely dangerous for our national interests. And I'm explaining. There are many unanswered questions. You say that we will continue to negotiate - and I have heard you today - on the conclusion of a comprehensive agreement. When do you expect this to happen? Give us a timeline. Themes are being created, with regard to the influence you recognized on the islands, from Rhodes and Karpathos to Crete. Did you recognize, Mr Mitsotakis, reduced influence and just how much on these islands? What are the baselines for assessing demarcation? We are also asking for clear answers from the government today. I must say, however, that at this point in time we must all think that at the critical times when we live in the internal race on this subject, and the divisional conflicts only favour the Turkish side and offer it additional arguments. After all, and with all the problems that have been analyzed all these hours by most of our speakers, this agreement offers arguments to our country, strengthening the battle against the Turkli pact. That is why we are voting for the agreement as a forced option because of the situation. We do not, however, give a white cheque to the uncertainty of your foreign policy, and we demand a national line. We condemn a fertile Greek-Turkish dialogue, which will not be inherited in the next generations of grey points, but a true community of peace and security in the south-east Mediterranean. This is our debt and responsibility towards the next generations of Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's greatest responsibility is not only the lack of a fixed line and constant recourse to tactics, as I said before,'seeing and doing'. The main responsibility of the government is that it has not considered the need to draw up the foundations for a long-term strategy for defending and safeguarding our national interests. The Turkish reform is not just about the Eastern Mediterranean and the Aegean and the maritime zones. It extends to questioning the dominance of Greek islands, threatens to tackle minority issues in Thrace, attempts to expand its influence west against Greece. These impose a coherent and comprehensive strategy for the redevelopment of the country, reorganisation with radical modernization of the state in all areas, before all. We can no longer proceed with "Maximus SA" and with this centralism. There are no ministers here. Greece, by exploiting all the potential of our people and the dynamic contribution of the Greeks of the diaspora, can and should be shown as the reliable strength of stability and security in Southeast Europe. To be the point of reference of a united Europe in such a fluid environment. To strengthen decisively before all our defence and develop the national defence industry. I've been seeing you for years, but nothing happens all this time. We're looking at businesses falling apart. We have all potential and we have the most suitable human potential to achieve this. We must, however, decide and start it immediately. Most of all, however, it takes a moral reconstruction of the country, beginning with where? From the political system itself and the behaviour of leaders and parties. I had spoken long before the elections about the logic of 'go away, come on,' but, unfortunately, we are living it again in a tragic way. What one denounced is now the other. The previous one hopes that some time he will come back to do exactly the same that he is accusing today. But, this must finally end and the Greek people will end. This is not the way the country goes, Mr. Mitsotakis and Mr. Tsipras. We are not here in Parliament for our parties, but for the interests of the Greek people, which requires other conduct and choices from all of us. One cannot send undersecretaries to hate celebrations and another to have youth revive division. Finally, we're not going back to the Civil War. This period ended definitively with Andreas Papandreou, PASOK and the democratic party. Take the decision at last. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] You do this consciously, because only through division do you live. We in the Change Movement have worked out and deposited a complete plan for national reintegration. I therefore call on you in a dialogue on these issues and not on meaningless and unscrupulous conflicts, when our very national status and our sovereign rights are threatened. The Change Movement, ladies and gentlemen, is why it exists. This is our debt and our historic commitment and I urge you to build our national unity at last, which leads to power for the country. That's what we'll all be judged of today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u50	For your information, I tell you that Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis will have second thoughts when the list of all political leaders is closed. The President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, you want the Greek people on the same slow viewer as you want to watch restless and confused games on the imperialist chess board. A project repeated by all governments and Prime Ministers, whether they were called Simitis, either George Papandreou, or Tsipras, now Mitsotakis. I don't mention the others. I just wanted to focus on the king's most royalties, where one after another took the greatest steps towards the cliff, which our great allies had taken to open. So today's agreements with Italy and Egypt on demarcation of the maritime areas ratified by your Government open up the paths of the abyss, indeed integrated into the dangerous pursuits of the United States, NATO, the European Union throughout the region. Part of these aims is the co-existence of the maritime zones of the Eastern Mediterranean, the Aegean Sea and the imposition of a diplomatic solution to the Cyprus issue. Yesterday, the German Foreign Minister, Mr Maas, was simply the messenger of bad guesses, since he made nothing but a painful compromise for consideration. And this proves, among other things, that, after here, she flew for Turkey, which, as we all know from the German bourgeoisie, Mrs Merkel and Mr Siya, is in the middle of the day, because it is a big market, it sells goods there, it is equipped with military equipment and so much else. That is why Erdogan, with more courage, said the day before yesterday that Greece has no right to declare NAVTEX in the region. "Greek with its attitude..." - said - "... she pulled herself into a chaos she cannot come out of alone. "From now on she will be responsible..." - said - "for any negative event and it will be the only country to be damaged." "As we know..." he said - "...the Greek neighbours must also know that those who throw Greece in front of the Turkish fleet will leave it alone in the event of difficulties". If this isn't a direct threat to escalation, for a war episode on their part, what is it? At the same time, Turkish newspapers report that Turkey is studying two versions to establish a Turkish naval base in Cyprus, either in Famagusta or in Trikomos. If this is also not a provocative escalation into the plans for partition of Cyprus, what is it? Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about coexistence and compromise, we are talking about coexistence between energy-saving colossians who act at the same time and compete with each other, which, of course, has nothing to do with genuine interests of neighbouring peoples. Unfortunately, this is precisely the case that individual agreements are preparing with Italy and Egypt, with unacceptable compromises. They prepare the biggest and most painful compromise, the one of the marine zones, with the blessings of course and the plans of your allies. And these designs do not even have one fair one, as you would say, share in this lovership. These strong allies have only upgraded Turkey to share, and that is what we are signing. What you say about historical agreements, of course, about national success, Mr Mitsotakis, is intended to hide that these agreements do not serve people's interests. This isn't the first time. We have heard the same about the Ambassadors' Agreement by the SYRIZA Government. We heard the same thing from both of you about dangerous military agreements with the United States of America and Israel. Never and nowhere in the modern-day capitalist world agreements between governments, that is, between urban classes, do not serve people's interests. Because nowhere in the world are people's interests identified with the interests of their exploiters. Definitely the objective of geostrategic upgrading of the Greek ruling class, that is, essentially the upgrading of its own only interests, in an area where a large bazaar of imperialist is under way, in no way matched by the realization of life, peace, friendship of the people. On the contrary. Today the position of the people's interests is the position of no border change, no change in international conditions, no participation in bazaars for the management of the Aegean, the Eastern Mediterranean. Because the borders only change with wars, with acts that the workers, peoples and young people finally pay for with their lives. International conditions change when the young people are signed to abolish the old, the previous ones and finally complete the crime against the people. Our people don't have to look away. One look at it in our neighbourhood, in the Balkans, will see that the borders have changed twice and three times with the blood of the peoples of the region, and this change has the seal of NATO, the European Union. In fact, you have the courage to extremize to the new generation that the European Union and its precursor, the EEC then, supposedly guaranteed for more than seventy years from its appearance of peace on its territory. When we all know that the European Union and its forces organized the NATO war in Yugoslavia twenty years ago. We remind the seventy-eight days of ruthless bombing, two thousand three hundred airstrikes in the heart of Europe. A total of four hundred twenty thousand missiles, missiles, bombs, used thirty - seven thousand cluster bombs, which caused most casualties to the civilian population. With the blood of these civilians the new borders were carved, the new conditions were signed. So who can guarantee our country's borders, its sovereign rights, its territorial integrity? Do those who have implemented and continued to reason divide and rule around the world? Those who do not recognise borders between their Member States, such as NATO, who consider the Aegean as a single operational space and where NATO Secretary-General states that differences with Turkey need to be solved "in a spirit of Allied Solidity". The Greek people have experienced this very painfully in the spirit of allied solidarity proposed by Mr Stoltenberg. Who can truly protect the territorial integrity of the country? Can the United States, which, with State Department statements, speak of questionable waters, legalise Turkey's claims? They are the same US, of course, which have provided Turkey with cover for the interventions in Syria, northern Iraq and have also been covering the occupation of Cyprus for forty-six years. And in order not to be mocked, these unacceptable statements come to disguise different views that distract the right of EEZ from the country's sovereign rights. But defending sovereign rights, territorial integrity, borders are not general theories, hollow words. They only get real meaning when they go hand in hand with the fight to get the country out of the dangerous plans of NATO, the Americans, the European Union, with the persecution of military bases, with the people running the place. For the dangerous plans of all this people pay us 4 billion a year, over 2% of GDP, not, of course, to protect borders, the territorial integrity of the country. Because the criteria for these specific armaments are not to strengthen the country's defence, but to acquire more means of participation in projects imposed by the objective of so-called geostrategic upgrading, to participate in imperialistic missions, against the real interests of the Greek people and its rights. It is confessed by your allies, the Americans, when, for example, they said without halving that the upgrading of Greek F-16 will enhance NATO's power in the south-eastern ward of the Alliance, as well as the upgrading of the country's military infrastructure, i.e. their military bases. Therefore, the race of military armaments in which the governments of the New Democracy, PASOK, without of course the SYRIZA government is an exception, does not serve to defend the country's sovereign rights. More specifically, for the agreements with Italy and Egypt, for the EEZs that we are debating today: When we talk about the Exclusive Economic Zones we are talking about the country's sovereign rights. The islands under the Law of the Sea have the same right as the mainland. Anyone who calls into question this basic position puts water into the mill of the aggression of the Turkish bourgeoisie, the questioning of the borders, of course, means. Turkey does not recognise this right of the Greek islands. What's he doing? It focuses particularly on Kastelorizo, where along with Strongli and the complex of islands and rocky islands in this region is the key to delimiting an EEZ between Greece, Egypt and Cyprus, much more so that the basin seems to have significant hydrocarbon deposits. The question, of course, from Turkey of the right to Kastelorizo is accompanied by the question about the Dodecanese, Crete and the other islands in the region. But where exactly is the retreat in the agreements you signed with Italy, much more with Egypt? First of all, the extension of the gynaecitis zone to a part of the territory and not as a whole can be mainly interpreted on the Turkish side as acceptance by the Greek side of the existence of grey zones in the Aegean. In fact, the agreement you signed with Italy, among other things, has given rise to this: the Greek side has agreed to retain the rights of the Italian fishing fleet in the maritime area between the six and twelve nautical miles as they were when the area concerned was under the offshore regime, before the agreement. What does that mean? This means that the Greek side has accepted the granting of sovereign rights - certainly in terms of the right to fishing - for the part added to the Greek kayalitis zone. We are, of course, listening to all the arguments put forward to convince that the agreement is for the benefit of the country. "Just for everyone," the Foreign Minister said. Where and yet a partial delimitation is fair, leaving Kastelorizo and half of Rhodes, an area of particular importance that is at the forefront of the claims of the Turkish bourgeoisie, as it seems, also from the NAVTEX respondents, the military exercises and the movements of research ships? The Greek territory is uniform and must be dealt with in this way. And let's leave what those who now know that Kastelorizo is near Turkey, that is, away from mainland Greece. They've even taken the messenger to measure how far it is from Attica or the Peloponnese. Kastelorizo is part of the Dodecanese complex, part of the Greek territory and is entitled, like all the islands with economic life, to be fully influenced by sea zones, such as the mainland coasts, in accordance with the International Convention on the Law of the Sea. So let some people who go to intelligence, because all they do is question the international conditions that have defined the borders, and let them not beat indifferently when we remind them that there are other islands near the Turkish coast - Lesvos, Chios, Samos and others - because they only play the game and open the appetite of the most aggressive circles. You say, of course, that negotiations with Egypt continue and that if we now exclude Kastelorizo and half Rhodes, this will be corrected in a new agreement when the conditions are ripe. When and how exactly do you see these conditions ripening true? As are decades matured for the yet unsolved Cyprus problem? As do the granules of Erdogan's blue patriots? You also know, very well, that the line separating the Greek and Egyptian demarcation line was not determined on the basis of the average distance of fifty plus fifty. It is a clear-cut line of purpose, just to satisfy Egypt's positions and to sign the agreement. Unfortunately, this logic also prevailed in the non-performance of Crete and the other islands, in the removal from the map of the islands south of Crete. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece, like other states, has the right to a yacht zone up to twelve nautical miles and to its determination on the basis of the average distance, the 'average line' where needed. And that, regardless of the exercise of the right. However, the Greek people must be aware that the expansion of the yacht zone into the twelve nautical miles, which has been announced today by the Ionian Sea, cannot function alone in favour of the people's interests, because it may also be a reason to increase conflicts, urban classes, states and governments. It is part of your interests and designs of imperialist alliances. It can trigger new tensions and threats of imperialist war. Our people cannot trust you because with and without expansion of the yacht zone in the twelve nautical miles you will continue to serve the interests of the monopolies, to serve the interests of urban classes, to engage the country in dangerous US projects, NATO, the European Union in the region and their various competitions that put our people at risk. The resolution of the problems relating to the kayalitis zone, the delimitation of a continental shelf and an EEZ in favour of people's interests is linked to the construction of relations of mutual benefit between neighbouring States and peoples, the exploitation of marine wealth on the basis of labour needs, the redemption of the country by imperialist alliances. And these and you of the Government and you of Officers and other urban parties cannot guarantee them. You are fanatical wars of all these necessary steps that really open hopeful paths for the good of the Greek people, the sovereign rights of the country, peace, security and stability in the region. We're watching you evict for your alliance with the Egyptian bourgeoisie class. But you know how they are and, above all, know how they change when the interests change. And the Egyptian Government, despite any controversy with Turkey today, keeps the issue of negotiations on the demarcation of Turkish EEZ open. From the very first time of your agreement, we asked very specific questions, but we did not get any clear answers, because they would simply reveal the unacceptable retreats and real, final plans, that is, that geographical relief does not justify the reduced extent of the Greek EEZ you signed, the fact that I mentioned before, namely, that the sharing took place with 44% of Greece and 56% of Egypt, on the basis of the published figures, of course, which are probably even more unequal. Also, the estimate that a maritime zone south and near the demarcation line, which was of particular interest to the Egyptian Government, is a source of hydrocarbons, has come to the public for a long time. You knew it. In fact, in a study hosted on a website a few days ago, it is reported that the demarcated marine area has an area of seventy-three thousand ten square kilometres and based on the coordinates of the demarcation line of the relevant map, the agreement gives an area of thirty-two thousand five hundred twenty-five miles [300 km] in Greece and forty - three hundred - eighty - five in Egypt. Why didn't the Ministry say so? Your claims that the agreement with Egypt cancels the unacceptable Turkle Pact also fails. Turkey's claims concern a wider maritime area, including the Greek continental shelf, in which plots have been designated as being prepared for exploration and exploitation by the Turkish state-owned oil company. Can you also ask your allies, the European Union, the Americans, NATO, exactly what is the agreement Erdogan signed with Saraj, or did you even forget that the Sarajevo government in Libya came from the US and NATO intervention? France, for example, played a role in defending the interests of TOTAL in Libya? Have you forgotten? Did you forget that this UN government has been recognised by the European Union? NATO Secretary-General himself said NATO is ready to support the Sarajean Government, obviously and recognise the agreement he has signed, which will of course be used in the plan for more general resolution of problems in the region on the basis of Euro-Atlantic interests. Your agreements with Italy and Egypt are actually studied but dangerous feasibility compromises that are part of the overall planning for the even greater compromise that will follow with Turkey. While Turkey is talking about zero influence, you are, in practice, promoting with these agreements the reduced effect of even zero influence on certain islands. The argument you are suggesting that we will supposedly avoid war if we proceed to a painful compromise with Turkey, namely, the consideration of the Aegean and the lands of Cyprus, is also false and dangerous. It is for the time being false and dangerous as well as for the future of the country's sovereign rights, for peace as a whole in the region. Because here in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean, the Aegean, an area rich in hydrocarbons deposits mainly of natural gas, they compete with very powerful states such as the United States of America, France, Russia, Britain, Italy, Germany, China, about who will put the wealth of this region in hand. All these competitions occur in this territory. And these competitions lead to warfare, as has been tragically proven many times in the past with various interventions in the Middle East, in North Africa, to catch our neighborhood here, and elsewhere in the world of course. Our people must reject all the extortionist dilemmas, not accept any retreat to sovereign rights. And to think that both in Greece and in Turkey as in other countries, we must take a road on which we ourselves, in the Balkans and in the Middle East and in North Africa and throughout Europe, must take the road that will lead us to actually take the power of workers, workers, the people of the country. Only on this road would the people find the way to solve and any differences arise. So that's where we have to go as a people, as a country as a whole. There must also be our struggle in Greece and in every other country from its own peoples to other regions. We do not claim that agreements will be signed, that there will be no dialogue, that there will be no compromise on this path. But we say that we are firmly opposed to feasibility agreements, agreements which express the interests of urban classes and not of the peoples. Today, such agreements like those which you are bringing in the middle of even severe imperialist competitions are only dangerous. This also applies to the deposits and their exploitation by the various monopolistic groups, whether French, German, Italian, American, Russian or Chinese. For above all we must put Greece of the workers, farmers, the bio-professionals, craftsmen, traders, scientists of men and women, young people and pensioners, and not a Greece of the monopolies, the cosmopolitanism of the great capital and their every kind of political managers. For all these reasons, therefore, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote 'no' on both agreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u52	And we thank Mr. Koutsuba. It is now Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, President of the Greek Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President. Fourteen years ago or I imagined this day. I imagined her, Mr. Ministers of the New Democracy Day of Joy, day of celebration, because at last our country decided to do the self-evident, its inalienable right to build and declare and demarcate an EEZ. Unfortunately, I feel very sad because I never expected the New Democracy to fall into such a national slip by making partial proclamation and delimitation. Today I have become truly wiser because I have discovered a new political term, 'partial governance'. This is what the New Democracy is doing, partly in power, partial social policy - we have seen it from economic programmes - partial health policy, partial economic policy! All you do is partially. Now we have the partial EEZ, and we also have the extension to twelve nautical miles in the west - the Prime Minister said - partly that too. You're a government part of it. You have to understand that when you rule a country you govern it in total and not a few. Partially, I would say that it leads me to an association that is very strange. You consider Greece a puzzle and you put a few pieces from here and there. Greece, unfortunately, is total. Greece is Greece and you can't get out of Kastelorizo. Kastelorizo is written with two lamps and it is Greece for those who want to understand, as are the Strofodas and the crossroads. Mr. Prime Minister isn't here, it's okay. He prefers to listen only to Mr. Tsipras, anyway he agrees with most of them and with Mrs. Gennamas. There is a troika here within parties that are totally in agreement and - I say it - and behind-the-scenes. And it seemed from their total presence. It looks like Mr. Maas' massage was good for Mr. Tsipras and whoever understands, understands. This is where we came in to tell the Greek people truths. We can't make fun of the Greeks. The German came one day before the conversation and met Mr. Tsipras. This is an institutional problem, because it did not meet anyone else. I did not want to see him anyway, but I did not understand what he had to meet with Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis one day before this debate. I wonder. The historian of the future may look. Of course, opening the extension of the twelve nautical miles to the west despite the opposite things that were said a few years ago in SYRIZA, the New Democracy's people are opening ferries. What are you doing now? You say I go to the west at 12 miles but in the Aegean Sea I'm afraid to do it. Why? You're scared. You are lifting a flag fearing Turkey, saying that I am unable in the Aegean Sea and I am only doing it in the Ionian Sea. Of course, I would expect the Prime Minister today to tell us whether what the magazine 'SPIEGEL' says is true. Mr Denkias is here, and he is honoured - and I may disagree with him - in order to impose sanctions on Turkey. That is what Mr Dendias has been asking for for a long time and it is right and national for what he is asking for. Has the Greek Prime Minister pledged, according to the 'SPIEGEL', to Mr Maas, not to ask for sanctions, canceling the foreign ministry's policy? That's what SPIEGEL writes today and I didn't hear the Prime Minister deny it. I expect Mr Petsa to disprove it and on Sunday when the debate comes to see what Greece is going to do. Will he raise a question of sanctions? That is the first argument, and we are going to the second one. When was the New Democracy lying to us, gentlemen of the New Democracy? When you said 11-8-2020 here and throughout Greece, when you made the private communication lately, that there is no violation, is our continent not violated? You told us here in the House and there's a announcement. And you sent a letter on 11-8 to the UN, now, protesting that the Greek continent was violated. I shall submit the letter to the UN in the minutes. Or you lied to us in the Greek Parliament all in the New Democracy and the Minister responsible and the Prime Minister that there was no violation or then just your protest is about garbage. Since you have no violation of what you complain to the UN? Here's the document. So let's go to what I honestly regard as complete. Mr. Tsipras said so too. I disagree with New Democracy in partial governance, in part EEZ, in fragmentation of Greece to newer ones. That's what you're saying. So I'm making partial delimitation until further notice. There's no partial, there's total, and I'll explain it to you in a little while. Since 2007, I've been in here. Mrs. Bakoyannis is here. I remember you had a fight, and I'll give you that to delimit the EEZ with Albania. If she remembers, as I said, that Albania has a constitutional court and she will cancel the agreement. He did the fight, we made the deal and the Albanians went to the constitutional court and canceled the deal and we don't have an EEZ with Albania. Don't have any illusions about what you're signing up to. What you're signing against our country for partial EEZ remains as a acquis on the opponent. But the opponent can change it whenever he wants. I'm telling you, so you know you didn't mind. In 2009 this story was made, and in 2010 in the House I was shouting and then that you are wrong with Albania and I voted against it at that time, I was the rapporteur because I am well aware of the matter. You said, for a few days now, you have put your trolls on FACEBOOK, the New Democracy for a full-on fight against SYRIZA and the other parties that disagree that they serve and serve Turkish propaganda. You told us that too. And you are making statements of various strange types from Turkey that Turkey has become irritated. Turkey was not upset at all. There is the statement by Cavusoglou on 10 August 2020. Do you know what this statement was about to be cut off all the channels, why do you check all the media and do whatever you want, and do the fish meat whenever you want? Listen to what he said: "Turkey is justified by Egypt's agreement with Greece. Retreats have been made from the sovereign rights of islands and Crete. That actually strengthens our positions. This agreement is of interest to Turkey because no one can tell us how we are causing tension in the region and we can go wherever we want in the region." It is a statement from your friendly site, in.gr from the Cyprus News Agency and from the Turkish "ANADOLU". That's what Turkey says. He's happy with the deal. You are fooling people with the journalists of the thousand euros - not all of them, but many of them - who have become the traffic lights in your partial government, are holding a light. And here are the 'News' - you know, Mr Marinakis is the newspaper - that says the same thing. I'll testify to that in the Minutes and that. So this story of totalitarianism from New Democracy "whoever disagrees with me is my enemy" let us stop. And the worst thing is that he's your enemy, but you throw him mud. You consider him a philosopher, you consider him a Turkish seed. There are trolls at FACEBOOK that those who disagree with you with the partial rule, the partial EEZ and the fragmentation of Greece consider them to be Turkish seeds. This is New Democracy, totalitarianism. Now let's go to PASOK. Reminded me of a little pregnant PASOK today, I apologize. But it's consistent with his PASOK attitude. Why? On Georgios Andreas Papandreou in 2003 - we will say the national crimes of everyone in here - Cyprus has started to make an EEZ. He asked Greece to agree with Greece in 2003, please. In the Minutes of the Cypriot Parliament, there are statements made by Roland. That was a national crime and Mrs Gennamas came here and told us that she saved us from everywhere, that PASOK was fighting for everything. They didn't do anything! Forty years neither EEZ did, nor mining, nor did research, nor have they ever done oil. Because this story with the AOZ isn't about the eyes of the Great Helena. It's about natural gas and oil in the area. And I will tell you what is there because I have been dealing with these issues since 2007 in Parliament. One cannot give me reminders or suggestions on a subject that I was graphical in 2007, 2009 and 2010 in the House, namely the issue of oil and gas. I'm emotionally loaded because I know what I took that five-year time. So Rolandis, the Minister for Trade and Industry, proposed to Greece in 2003 for the EEZ and agreed with Egypt, please Cyprus - says Rolandes himself - on a line that was just to the point where the Greek EEZ began and accounted for Kastelorizo. In 2003 he counted for Kastelorizo! Who was the Minister of Foreign Affairs? Mr. GAP, Mr. Papandreou, who, of course, asked Mr. Rolandes, said so in the Cypriot minutes of their parliament, because this is treason, that the EEZ of Cyprus should move easter so as not to touch Kastelorizo. Take the Minutes of the Cypriot Parliament, Rolandes! "Giorgos Papandreou," says Rolandes, "court the Cypriot side not to sign the line to where the Greek EOZ began." I mean, they've taken Kastelorizo out of 2003, Mr. Comrade. These are the Minutes of the Cypriot Parliament! I'll put it in the Minutes and put it in the Minutes. "And he asked to be transported easter eight nautical miles that is about ten kilometers," effectively leaving Kastelorizo from the outside. And to say something about the New Democracy now. Do you know Mr. Yannis Bassia? He is the President of the Greek Hydrocarbon Management Company. Look for Mr. Bassia, if I'm not mistaken he's also centre-left, he must be your man. I don't care, but he was there. In August 2019, therefore, he asked the Government to open a tender on five sea plots with suspected deposits of two of which south of Crete. The answer of Minister Hatzidakis was negative. South of Crete before it became the Turkish pact - which was neither illegal. There is no agreement for us - to be given to international colosses, 'Exxon Mobil', and so on, these plots. And Mr Hatzidakis blocked the country's chance to put on the international players with whom the JRC disagrees - his right - in this game. The Minister's refusal at that time is undoubted. It was a lost chance. I am not saying that, as Mr Bassias says, Mr Konofagos, who is an expert on these issues. No one knows more than him in the House. I also want to tell you this because I hear some from New Democracy, the young people you brought to your party, because you are a patriotic party, so I want to believe in principle, but you brought many martyrs who jumped into your area and who are very advanced in their views on national sovereignty. They adopt a Turkish argument, and unfortunately many say it: Kastelorizo is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u54	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u55	A lot of people have said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u56	Nobody.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u57	A lot of people have said it. Look for it a little further, Mr. Hatzidakis. A lot of people have said it, don't go on. Let them look for the offices to find the statements for themselves. Here Agathonisi said the President of the Republic is far away. The President of the Republic said the island of Agathonisi is far away! So because it's far away on the island, I'll prove to you that you're sadly saying what you want. The Canary Islands, do you know them? There was a dispute with Portugal on this matter. It's farther away from Spain. Here's the map. They were taken by the Spanish who are farther away. International law! You have transnationalists who, of course, often have embassy lenses and see only one side, do not see the other side. The other side of Mr Syrigos, for example, is Mr Manolakou from New Democracy. The list given for speakers has learned that some have left the list 'they' because they say things that may not be right on the basis of partial governance and partial EEZ.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u58	Not partial government, deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u59	Partial government. I know what I'm saying. Let's actually go. So I say this once again: Partial EEZ you are making, in part, a partial extension of twelve nautical miles, partial economic policy you do, partial health policy, partial mask policy you do, 'partial' do everything, you want to do it, you do not want to. Let's actually go. China-Philippines case. The Philippines are islands, they've been vindicated by The Hague. Because I heard a lot of people agree on The Hague. Tell me, gentlemen, why should I resort to The Hague? You tell me. While the court lost it, China wrote it in its oldest shoes as a powerful one, because from the time of the caves there is the law of power, the law of the mighty one, and I will tell you again - the great terrorist of the Mediterranean is Turkey, the most inexperienced factor and destabilising is Turkey. Who guarantees me that the Hague, if it decides for us, will send an army to enforce its opinion? He doesn't have an army. It can't be. What do you want to say now that International Law has justified us? So what? Prevent and display power, this is the solution, understand it. So now let's go to what you've given. Because this is where the party starts. Listen, dear friends. Because it is not a plot and a chip or your home Greece, who gives the right to give 56% to Egypt? Who gave you the right to give 56% of the property of the Greek people in Egypt? That's what you did, 56% - 44%. Is that your land? Would you give home by 56% to a stranger if you had a plot? Oh, no. Why are you giving it here? You got a guarantee... to hear a sense, because the Prime Minister said a half truth, didn't lie, he said half truth, he told us. He sharply told us about Egypt. And what I pointed out to him is to make a military alliance with Egypt in case of attack and involvement, and I hear it, I say that, although I disagree with your logic. But that's not what you did either. Egypt's commitment that if anything happens with Turkey Egypt will be assisted by soldiers, and that's not what you got. So let's go to AOZ. So I'll read what experts say, not what I say. Because with what you did, you admitted other things. Basically you admitted and admit, with this contract that we want to become accomplices to the crime you commit and speak of national unity.... It's a crime you're doing. I don't care what the websites say, my conscience I want to have clean me. Here's the Door Rusopulus. In 2007, in 2008, in 2009, in 2010, in 2011, I was here, screaming for the EOZ and for the oil. I was saying, no one listened to me. I remember Mr Papaconstantinou, who called me "oil". He saw me out in Peristyl, saying "The oilman, the MP, came, because I was talking about oil and gas. Today Greece is in danger of having unscrupulous treasures, unfortunately or happily for the homeland. Admission: The size of Crete has reduced influence. With this agreement you admit, Crete has a reduced influence. I won't say percentages, I'll say reduced influence. Crete, reduced influence. What did I have to claim if a large island like Crete has a reduced influence, then what did I have to ask about Kastelorizo, which is a smaller island? With the mistakes you make, mathematics creates data and header for the next negative developments. I'm not talking about the 28th meridian, honestly. But Rhodes? And Rhodes reduced influence? You'll soon be having a reduced influence on the Thermaikos Gulf. Rhodes' reduced influence? And because I want to be consistent: Confessor, the speciality of everyone for Herodotus' Launch. There's no better, there's no more expert, I'm telling you. Since 2007, 2009 I have been working with him, learn from him things and many, such as Mr Foscolos, and many teachers from Germany. We say, we gave 1/3 of our own Basket, Herodotus, 75% of Egypt. Now listen. With today's assessments, ladies and gentlemen, the Herodotus basin, the Egyptian Geological Institute, I tell you, is 300 to 400 billion. In other words, we gave the Egyptian baxes to agree with us about 80 billion euros. We gave it to them from our own property. Do you understand what you've done? Without a military deal, an alliance for attack common if the fatality occurs. You didn't do the same thing. The value of Herodotus’ Greek basin is three trillion cubic meters, or 100 trillions. Cubic feet, i.e. between 300 and 400 billion. gross as value. To understand what you've given, this little pink you see here is Greek. You gave it to Egypt. The pink piece, one/3, you gave it to Egypt, and that's what I'll sign? You want to make me an accomplice to this thing of me? You'll never make me. I'm telling you that. The pink, here. Pink is Greek and we gave it to Egypt, so that the Greek people know what we've given them, it's important. Why didn't you make an EEZ with Cyprus directly? Neither Egypt would need anything, EEZ with Cyprus. You know, the transmigrants here have another point of view. You know what they say? "Come on, though, they don't do that." Why can't they, guys? If they don't, say publicly that you can't do it and make an election and leave. Say, "I can't do AEZ with Egypt, I'm afraid Turkey doesn't make a war for me and I'm leaving." It's not bad, it's not bad to say, but to make a shameful deal, baptizing it positive, there's a difference. But that's not all. Let's go to the intersectional islands. You're bringing us a deal with Italy. What Italy? Do you know who Italy is? The greatest enemy for those who know history - and this is where a lot of history is taught - is Italy. Italy is always a host country with Greece, since the Roman period, Byzantium, with the Pope. Did you forget that? '40 am I going to talk? In '23 what did they do to us in Cilicia? Always. Why are our enemies? Because we're the door to Suez, Ellas. Geo-economics, geopolitical strangle them. That makes sense. And you go and make an agreement with Italy, which Italy is now doing common high schooling with Turkey under Crete. At the time you bring the deal with Italy, the Italians do common high school with the Turks under Crete. I apologise for the tension, but you have no idea what you're signing. Unfortunately, I say it with a lot of soul pain. You don't understand what you're signing. Overseas islands. He says Professor Zelidis, New Democracy is the man, university professor, look for him. So I read his study. He's the expert who searched the whole Ionian. It's very rich in oil and gas deposits. What have we done with the agreement, what do you as a New Democracy give with this agreement? The Gulf of Kyparissia along with the Strofods has great anticlimax. The geology professor, not the internationalist. The internationalist says his own, based on what they taught him at the university or on what he imagines. Geologist is a scientist. Science means research, one and one does two. The internationalist is like journalists, from theory we're big, from nothing. It's the biggest look of the Southeast Mediterranean. The stare at Strofodas, says the professor, much greater than the Zor-Egypt, the neo-democratic professor of geology Zelidis. And you gave it all to Italy, and you want me, which since 2007 I have been in here - do not save and go back into the House - to sign something like that? I'll never do it. Never! So the Italians asked for it, you gave it to me. What did Mr. Zelidis say? From the Ionian Sea alone Greece, if it exploits its mineral wealth, can have twenty years of energy dependence on Greece. He doesn't talk about the rest of the place, another thirty years. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, I personally entered the House with a dream, actually to talk about this issue in Parliament at some point. I'm sad, I'm really sad about what's going on. I came here to listen to political leaders and I am ashamed of what I have heard today. I believe that everyone has agreed with you, with the New Democracy, is an agreed story. I have not heard anything real about substantial disagreement. I told you, Maas did a job, he did a massage, and in particular, the Chief of Officerial Opposition, who came here to tell us what Kumoucascus said before, what the New Democracy said before, to remind the neo-democratics of the Prespecies Agreement what crime they did against them. For me, the New Democracy's attitude was nationally decent with the Ambassadors' agreement. But I would welcome it if the Committee of Inquiry on Kotzia brought it to the House. Mr. Tsoulus is here. Mr. Tasoulus never brings her. President is, whatever he wants to do anyway, that's his point of view. To discuss who led us to the Prespecies Agreement, Mr Kotzias and the others. You're not bringing the exam. That's the crime you're committing. Let's actually go because he talked about this deal. Gentlemen of Northern Greece, Macedonian MPs, Greece's agreement on enclosed state and international law enables Skopje to request maritime bases in the Gulf of Thermaikos. I've told you ever since, I've told you again. Look into it. The article inside is written wicked, but unfortunately some do not understand it. There have been crimes. In the article in question, therefore, the Prespecies Agreement, which is the interim agreement which has been made at earlier times in Article 5, speaks of rights in the Skopje Thermonuclear Gulf. How will you look at your voters in Macedonia to see a port of scop in the Gulf of Thermaikos or a port base, why would they have a connection with the Desert with riverships? You know, no Greeker of the Greeks, friends and friends. As you invest in your allies, you invest in Germany, America, France, the aliens, Sirius, Andromeda - I don't know where you invest - I tell you again, no Greeker of the Greeks. That's the truth. We must be ready, we must be bold, Greek and determined. We owe Greece and not Greece to us. That's a truth. However, the way you have done the contracts and the agreements we cannot consent. We think you're making a tragic mistake. I'm not going to say you're not talking about a helmet at all. If you really want to agree on a serious foreign policy, let us make a National Security Council. We're the country that doesn't have it, just as it doesn't have a constitutional court. Let's do this. That's not what you're doing. If you want to agree you make AEZ with Cyprus, extend the territorial waters to twelve nautical miles across Greece. It's not just the Ionian, it's the Aegean. Expand them everywhere, so we can hear you! I have no desire to fight or fight with anyone. I think that Greece needs a new big idea, since they love Venizelos here. Mr. Tsipras has come too, our Prime Minister. Greece needs a new great idea, a truly great idea as much as it seems odd, a vision that will be followed by all Greeks and parties together, a leader, any leader. I say this because great ideas are born of the great men, but great men do not make discounts on national sovereignty. Big leaders never made discounts. Venizelos didn't make any discounts. A huge Greece was envisioned, with its mistakes - because it also made mistakes - but it led a Greece where it had to. Unfortunately, today with what we do, we do not grow up in Greece, you do not grow up in Greece. This is evidenced by the mistakes you make in foreign policy. Prime Minister, we talked about it, and in private, I told you about France. We could do with France, not because the French love us, but strangely enough, I would say that France has had a pro-Greek attitude for centuries. It's true. However, it has it because they are confusing its interests today - France, not Macron in particular - with our own interests. Let's not forget that in Lebanon, Syria, France had colonies. So why don't I take weapons systems from France, if you want to get weapons systems? But it must be France! But the obligation on Cyprus too. They are based, Prime Minister, but they also sign a strategic aid agreement between France and Cyprus. Give me a base! You gave the American bases so much: Alexandroupolis, Souda, Araxos, you gave it all. But it matters what we got. Nothing! Give me a base! But when you give bases to get something else. There's a reason I give it and I take it. Ellas is the country that only gives and never gets. That's the reality. We can cooperate with the French, ship building, etc. Here our friendly Spain helps build the Turks helicopter. Italy, I was telling you before, is giving them military helicopters. Turkish helicopters are with Italian engines. The Germans don't give them Leopard and they're drones. And you expect them, Prime Minister, to save us? We're alone! Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Koutsoubas, Mr. Varoufakis, Mrs. Gennimatas, other fellow Members, the Greeks, we are alone and always were alone. Let's figure it out! Because I have to invest in the international law that does not exist, because if there was international law, the Turks would have left Cyprus. Who are we kidding? If there was international law in 1974, the Turks would have left Cyprus. They never left. Unfortunately, we are living with delusion, living our political system with delusion, living with fantasies. I wish there was international law! Read Thucydides, it's good. In conclusion, I would like to say this again for France. The only country that really helped us is France. Can I tell you why? He gave us Mirage and didn't give the Turks. In the Germans we paid the four submarines - and it is well that we received these invisible submarines, despite the problems they experienced, did not grow and we now have superpower in our submarine fleet - but at the same time they also give the Turks six submarines. This is the good military market. It buys F-16 Greece from America, Turkey also buys. Why, Prime Minister, don't you go take from Russia Suckhoi 57 and within two years of surrender and wait in 2030? The same price for thirty Suckhoi with two years delivery and we will have super armor in the air. You'll tell me, naval force, etc. It's Natali too, it's Turkey, it's got S -400. Why should I be the good guy all the time and not help me? Be a good boy, but help me! They got us in the carpet. That, when I say it, may be a bad thing, but we must have the strategic doctrine of the Pimp. I'm perpendicular to this. Only by the doctrine of the Ptipple can Greece resuscitate. ‘In order to achieve the deterrent, we must have a chance of strategic impact or equivalent’, a Tyre. He said it, he wrote it, but who reads it, and who pays attention? Of course, we have a lot of suggestions, but I'll tell you something? At these critical times - time is pushing me and I want to say a lot of things - Mr Prime Minister, you have not listened to me today, but I do not mind, but I would like to close your words, your words. I fully agree with what you say here. I think it was your best speech. "It is a national mistake that offends the truth and the history of our country. Inferior to the circumstances your Government is mocking political life with drunkenness. Personalities are falling, public life is being ridiculed and our national interests are being undermined. You secretly negotiated by violating a policy calling for wider consensus. I am talking to Members of Parliament who are willing to raise their hand by beating their heads, sacrificing obstacles that go far beyond them. The government has given us a great battle. We've denounced governmental manipulation by sending a hazard signal for what's coming. We demanded cooperation, but we have seen that SYRIZA has made national issues a part of it. I would urge you to vote, ladies and gentlemen, following on from the great 'no', to stand up to the circumstances, to the extent of history. The Greek Prime Minister's speech on the shameful Ambassadors' agreement. I endorse it with two signatures, but I repeat it today for your party, because what you were saying at the time, unfortunately, is happening today too. You are not listening to us on national issues, and that is the big problem. In conclusion, I should like to thank the Greek Armed Forces publicly and say that the Government is doing well here - I will be fair with everything - but also the rules of involvement and dismissal must be given to our Navy or our Air Force to know how to react. The nation is currently based on three pillars: the Army, Fleet and Air Force, pillars that were free to work, never betrayed us. Can I say something, Prime Minister, and if you want to hear it? If you want to be a big country, learn to have great ideas, say a very great Greek thinker, whom we all forget. In conclusion, I should like to say once again that, Mr Prime Minister, for us and for the crossroads, the islands and Strofodas and Kastelorizo and the fourteen other small islands are Greece. Don't cut Greece! Do not amputate it because you will be the Prime Minister who amputated Greece and the one who raised it. You don't deserve that especially! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u60	The circle of the first speeches of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups is closed with the speech of the Chairman of the MERA25 Parliamentary Group Mr Varoufakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, Mera25 will vote against the agreement with Italy and Egypt for the delimitation of Exclusive Economic Zones, not because of the imperfections they obviously have - no agreement can be perfect - as other colleagues have said, for example, that the agreement with Italy contains provision for recourse to The Hague in the event of disagreement, whereas the agreement with Egypt does not contain it or the absence from the preamble and from any Greek-Egypt agreement of any explicit reference to the rule of the middle line on the basis of which the demarcation or ambiguity has been established as to whether the agreement demarcation of AEZ with a country that has territorial waters everywhere in the miles, such as Egypt, while the second country, Greece, remains in six miles east, which does not change with the current firefight for the Ion. This means renegotiation with Egypt of the EEZ Agreement in case we extend it to the twelve miles east. These are imperfections, but that is not why we are voting against. No negotiation product, as I said, is not perfect, obviously. Nor do we vote against because these agreements include concessions to Rome and Cairo. For example, reduced influence of large islands, such as Kefalonia, which may strengthen Ankara's negotiating position. Away from Mera25, nationalist pillowism. The achievement of mutually beneficial agreements, Prime Minister, obviously also requires compromises. The question for us at Mera25 is whether the compromises with Troika or Ankara are mutually beneficial. To benefit the country without finally making it a compromise, neutralized and ultimately defeat. The reason why we are voting against is that we disagree with your thinking of both the Government and the Civilian Representation, which leads you to seek a regular solution to our national issues through a series of bilateral agreements. Your logic, which neither SYRIZA disputes, nor the Change Movement is this. It's blessed, we just disagree with her. You want before you go to bilateral dialogue with Ankara to strengthen your negotiating power. That's right. How do you ask us to help you, however, to gain more negotiating power? We must ratify two bilateral EEZ agreements because you consider that if you go to the negotiations with Ankara with these agreements your position will be stronger. Ladies and gentlemen, you are mistaken. The opposite is going to happen. Nothing strengthens Ankara, especially today, by a process of bilateral negotiations that escalate with the bilateral negotiations of Athens Ankara. Bad lies, Prime Minister. They're dragging you into bilateral negotiations with Ms. Merkel. And in the background, in the infinite case of diversion, the American factor. You have already agreed, Mr Mitsotakis, on such a dialogue with an agenda that Berlin will dictate following good cooperation with Ankara. We, Mera25, would not even say in such a dialogue if we thought there was a prospect of a mutually beneficial agreement for the Greek and Turkish people. We would not even have a problem with Mrs Merkel's diligence if it were not given her commitment not to the interests of European citizens, not even the interests of German citizens, but to the pursuit of specific German multinationals with investments in Turkey or a export network to Turkey. I'm addressing the Prime Minister and the Chief of Officerial Response with a question. Do you really expect Mrs Merkel to consent even theoretically to sanctions against Turkey when German big capital has such an infiltration into the Turkish economy? We are therefore voting against because your tactics bring bilateral dialogue to you that will lead you to surely conspiracy either after a hot episode or without one. A slogan that will benefit only from the oligarchy without frontiers at the expense of our countries, at the expense of all the peoples of the Eastern Mediterranean, not to say at the expense of the vast majority of European citizens. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you say and say again that our country had every legal right to conclude these two agreements. Obviously. No one doubts that. But why have you not proceeded with the establishment of an EEZ with Cyprus? You didn't have the legal right? You obviously had it. You didn't do it right, and you didn't do it because it would be a strategic mistake. We believe that these agreements with Italy and Egypt are also a strategic mistake. So what the Mera25 disputes is whether bilateral agreements are a concept, a method, or a method, with Italy, with Egypt, is of interest to our country at the current juncture. Whether they are part of a comprehensive strategy instead of being regularisms that are unstrategic lead to a self-government. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that. Don't we know? Turkish diplomacy looks forward to three, four and five movements in the geostrategic, geopolitical chess board. Our own governments, gentlemen and gentlemen of the New Democracy and SYRIZA, stick to the first, can be in the second move. A brief retreat to the recent past, I think, confirms it. Some had the obvious idea several years ago that the best way to promote Greek interests, our national interests were through the agreement with Israel, in the middle of Cyprus for mining from Crete to Heifa with EastMed and so on. Rich and power was the promise. On the one hand, oil and natural gases would fill the empty funds on the other side with support from "Exxon", Trump, the 6th fleet, Israel would create preservatives for our country among the powerful. No thought of Ankara's next move. No realization that Erdogan was looking at you and rubbing his hands looking at the geostrategic gift you're giving him. You see, Ankara knows that wealth doesn't exist. That the treasure of fossil fuels. You want proof? You heard the other day about the important hydrocarbons found in the Black Sea in areas that are undoubtedly in Turkish sovereignty. If, as many people say, Erdogan makes challenges in the Mediterranean, he takes risks, because that is how he hopes to solve Turkey's energy problem, one would expect that these findings in the Black Sea would reduce his provocativeness in the Mediterranean. They would reduce his movements in the Mediterranean. Something that didn't happen. And why didn't it happen? Because Erdogan doesn't care about hydrocarbons. He's more interested in him. To drag you into bilateral negotiations and, at the same time, to turn Turkey from a regional force which is already in the unique expression of the political Sunni Islam from Bosnia and Kosovo to Yemen, even Indonesia if it can. The overthrow of Muslim brothers, by your ally and dictator, Mr. Sisi, despite being his allies, makes him a unique player and expressor who politically Sunni Islam. Ankara still knows something else. That your alliance with Israel, "Exon", Ceci, Macron, Emirates and Emirates will not strengthen our country. He's the only one who strengthens. Both within Turkey and in the wider region. Look at how useful it was for him, how intelligently he used your alliance with Israel, "Exxon", Ceci, Macron, Emirates and Emirates. This started as long as you were in the opposition, when Mr. Tsipras was responsible for this alliance, with an order to the oppressed and oppressed Turkish people saying "go to surround us with drills from Crete to Heifa by taking advantage of the whole marine area in the apron, in the belly of Turkey and enclaving Turkey on land". He told the Turkish citizens in his proclamations on TV: "They drilled? Pipes and we from Antalya to Tripoli, Libya." With this nationalist outburst, which, however, the announcements of our own drills have become a dominant account within Turkey, has founded the consensus within Turkey on its Libyan campaign. He stabilised his shaky regime and thus placed on the corner of the Turkish democrats, our companions within the neighbouring country. Someone's going to ask a good question. If Greece hadn't proceeded to the alliance with Israel, "Exxon", Ceci, Macron, Emirates, and Erdogan would not proceed to his Libyan campaign? That's the question. No one can answer for sure. What is certain is that if Mr. Tsipras and you, Mr. Mitsotakis, were not happy with Mr. Netanyahus announcing mining throughout the entire breadth of the Eastern Mediterranean, it would be much more difficult for Erdogan to create within Turkey and the Muslim world the consensus that he so easily created because of your alliance with Israel, "Exxon", Sissi, Macron, Emirates and Russia. Somehow this is how the Turkish President moved to Libya with a threefold goal: EEZ with Tripoli, with which practically to make relapses in your alliance with Israel and Egypt, projecting hegemony power in the Arab world and most important to extinguish you to your next mistake. And you, Mr. Mitsotakis, were not too late to fall into the trap. Without planning again without considering your next move, you embraced the warlord Haffar, on the basis of the clear logic that the enemy of my enemy is my friend. In this Chamber, on January 17th, I had told you: By hugging the warlord Haffar, you remind the Greek superpatriots who embraced Karad Karadzic in the 1990s, thus affecting the image of the country and our geostrategic position. I asked you then to make up for it, to stop dreaming of infinite magnificence and there is no riches of hydrocarbons, hug with Netanyahu, Ceci, Trump, and - if possible - Haftar. I said to make Greece the member of the European Union who will become the center of the international regional renewable energy network, which embraces the entire Mediterranean and gives us real potential and play a developmental peace role and marginalise those who are in charge of Libya, but also our sovereign rights. You have devastated then, as you are deaf today, and we have seen the results of the merrotragation with Huffar, the loser hemorrhaging you embraced. Not only did Erdogan's Islamic mercenaries derailed him in the battlefields in Libya, but the fact that Haftar also had the support of Putin, with this military victory over Haffar, Erdogan, became most useful in the United States of America that in the face of the Turkish President, they found a peasant, capable of restricting Putin, Russia to countries like Libya and Syria, covering the backs of an American that chooses, for its own reasons, to step away from the region, something that Mr Byden will not change, you know that. Really, Mr. Mitsotakis, will you apologise to Parliament for bringing us Huffar to this sacred building? And the French supported him, but they didn't take him to the National Assembly or get him to the Elysia Fields. An apology to the Greek Parliament owes it, Prime Minister. And when Haftar didn't "sitting on you", he proved lover, you turned to Libya's other loser, Mr. McCrone. So, without a strategic plan, we remembered the "Greece, France, an alliance", which seemed to fit in at the difficult time, as France is a serious force in the Eastern Mediterranean and at the same time Mr. Dendias ran to Egypt to find some moments from what had become dust and entered the process that is now culminating in the ratification of bilateral EEZ agreements, with Italy, with Egypt, hoping to regain some movement initiative, despite the total lack of strategic thinking. In the meantime, Ankara was implementing its long-term strategic plan, which you, we don't have. They took out the "ORUC REIS" in the Mediterranean, in an area near but outside the EEZ that you agreed with Egypt and at the far-sighted edge of the continent that we would be held by the tribunal in The Hague, only if he accepted 100% of all Greek arguments, which will never be done. And then, here comes your greatest strategy, our strategy defeat. You are entering bilateral dialogue under Ms Merkel, not under Mr McCrone, a difference of importance if you see the German business interests, including the sales of German weapons to Turkey, which France does not do, and the dependence of the large German political parties, all of the major political parties in Germany, by a large Turkish electorate of Turkish origin in Germany, which is personally affected by Mr Erdogan. As I said before, you have already accepted as a result of this strategic defeat, the Merkel agenda, which will be difficult to bring any agreement, and will far more easily intensify tensions in the Aegean Sea, after a diplomatic shipwreck. And as if that were not enough, you've been trapped in a dangerous bilingualism, a double governmental reason. But you say abroad, but you say to the Greek people. You appear consensual on the outside. That's not bad. You're moving on to secret consultations with Turkey. And that may not be bad. But it is not acceptable that the Greek people are informed about this by the mouth of Turkish officials. And it's not right that at the same time in the interior, you boast your far-right audience, inside and outside the New Democracy, trying to shape the profile of hard in Greek-Turkish. This bilingualism, Prime Minister, is confusing to the Greek people. This bilingualism undermines popular unity and therefore affects your negotiating position. Even worse, I'm sure you know that, cultivating silky-fighting positions inside you're entangled. While you are preparing for bilateral negotiations under Ms Merkel, in which you will eventually be the powerless partner, you slowly convince the Greek public that the maximum we ask is unnegotiable. Therefore, whether you are forced to leave the dialogue or make compromises, even if they are legitimate, will cause the wrath of your own people. One will say "when we are born", that even the analysis of Mera25 for the lack of a serious strategy on the Greek side, the question is what we are doing now. Too, very right. Let us see, then, calmly the two agreements with Italy and Egypt, which you are bringing us to vote today. Can these bilateral agreements join an optimal strategy for the country? Now, today? One thing is absolutely certain. Whether we ratify these agreements or not, we will at some point be forced to negotiate multilaterally involving at least Turkey and Libya. The reason is simple: your pursuit, I imagine, was and remains the Greek Egyptian EEZ to override the Turkish EEZ, so that Ankara's legal problem could find an adversary to our legal project and at some point find them. With guns there's no chance of imposing the Greek Egyptian EEZ on the Turklibi. It would be unheard of and refreshing to prepare the world for this. So, at some point, we're gonna end up in The Hague anyway. But in The Hague court, we are not entitled to go alone, demanding that the Turklove Pact be cancelled and accepted ours. Nor can anyone drag to The Hague without his consent. You know that, of course, very well. The International Court of The Hague is only a court of law. It is an arbitration agency, which strives to share the clearly recorded differences in states that choose to resort to it. So at best we will all end up together, Greece, Turkey, Egypt, Libya and other countries in The Hague, where after we have recorded our different claims and suggestions, the so-called court will share the difference. I wish. However, given that multilateral negotiations are inevitable, it is important that we should aim at multilateral negotiations from the outset instead of reaching it, following bilateral negotiations in agreements like those that you are bringing today. Why? Because in a multilateral negotiation of all Eastern Mediterranean countries with the sole theme continental shelf and AEZ, Ankara cannot in such a multilateral negotiation put provocative and irrelevant issues on the table, such as Thrace issue,against gray zones or demilitarisation of the Dodecanese, etc. Does it help in this direction or does the prior conclusion of bilateral agreements, such as the one with Italy and Egypt? Merra25 considers that these bilateral agreements are clearly damaging. Firstly, they are void on the record, as they have to go back to the multilateral negotiation table and probably go to The Hague. Secondly, in addition to being void, they harm the effort to prevent the pressure of the major forces for bilateral dialogue with Turkey with an agenda to be expelled from their own multinationals and internal options. When the Greek side, you, the Greek Government, conclude bilateral agreements on how can you then deny bilateral dialogue with Ankara to which we are being pushed by Berlin and Washington? So this is for Mera25 the only logical conclusion. We have a national obligation, Prime Minister, to resist the principle of bilateral negotiation and instead to remain in the multilateral negotiation which is inevitable and is the best protection from the bowling planned by Ankara by raising grey zones, sharia in Thrace, requirements for the Dodecanese and others. Before I repeat the standing proposal of Mera25 for the convening of a Regional International Conference here in Athens in all the Eastern Mediterranean countries, you will allow me to say a few words about the geostrategic importance of the green development plan for Greece and the wider region. A year now in this House and more tell you again and again: coal the treasure of oil in the Eastern Mediterranean. And to work with Turkey yesterday, even the price of a barrel of oil will not flow towards public funds. Petroleum ending, mining costs are now forbidden. The same goes for EastMed. Forget him, it will not be done, whatever agreement will be reached and that will be achieved. One of the costs is unthinkable in relation to the expected returns. On the other hand, the United States by Trump or Byden have made a strategic choice to promote liquefied shale gas in the form of LNG, which will extract from Texas, Alexandroupolis, Antalya, Burgas by competing with GAZPROM and Mr Putin's gases. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if we're going to keep Thermopylae, yes, we're going to have a war if necessary. But to send our children to fight for an unprecedented treasure in the seas and heavens of the Mediterranean in favor of brokers who treasure by creating futures, derivatives of values that will never be realised, that is to us the definition of crime. Merra25 is the only party in this Parliament that, at the very first time, we say that hydrocarbons must remain in the effluents of the earth and that the Mediterranean must not become a field of war nor fall victim to co-existence, but become the sea of peace, cooperation and a new common network of renewable energy. When I tell you this, I see your eyes a little pale out of this wing. You are tired, you think: 'Now the hippies again, the economists of Mera25'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u62	No, they're licking. They're ticking with what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u63	Rethink it, however, ladies and gentlemen. Read Joe Biden's word when he accepted the nomination of the Democratic Party a few days ago. If you read it carefully you will see that Biden's word is a manifesto, a manifesto with which he declares trade war with China aimed at hegemony in green technologies. The future of geostrategic conflicts will not be oil or pipelines, will be clean renewable energy, battery technologies, import duties that will now be justified and legalised on the basis of the intensity of use of renewable energy in the production of market goods. Do you know what it means to us patriotism today? Instead of selling the port of Alexandroupolis with the aim of delivering it to imports of LNG from Texas and to a regime in the Aegean Sea that will force you in Washington and Berlin to draw up a creation plan in Alexandroupolis of the first large power plant to produce marine wind turbines after a multilateral agreement with all the countries of the region, part of this agreement will be the co-production of wind turbines so that we do not have to import them either from China or from Texas. Note that. Very soon hydrogen will be for commercial ships, but also for heavy industries that batteries for cars, their driving power. Is Greece going to remain outside this nymph? Before you call us ethers, think about it. Do you want to be responsible for the fact that Greece will lose the train of the next technological revolution and be threatened with heavy incidents about fossil fuels with zero economic value? Take responsibility. We've taken care of them. The proposal from Mera25 is very clear. We support it from the outset and consistently - and you know that, Prime Minister, we have discussed it personally - that your government, the Greek Government, should immediately convene an International Regional Conference of all the countries of the Eastern Mediterranean in Athens. The Conference will have a unique discussion about the demarcation of AEZ and continental shelves throughout the Eastern Mediterranean and the only objective of convening a joint list of disagreements, so that we can reach multiple shared agreed bilateral demarcations with the possibility of common recourse to the International Court of The Hague with a request for a joint and paired consultation of any disputes. Such a conference will exclude the curators, minimise tensions, allow the separation of EEZs and shelf from all other Greek-Turkish differences and, at the same time, force Ankara or be isolated by saying that it does not come because it does not recognise the Republic of Cyprus or recognise the Republic of Cyprus. In the meantime, as the International Regional Conference is being prepared, we are calling on both the Government and the Civic Opposition to clearly state two things: Firstly, to define on maps, not abstractly and in legal terms, what do you think our maximum claims should be. Secondly, you must state very clearly what you consider to be a casus bellill, that is, what they must do and where the Turkish forces must do exactly before you, the Prime Minister, order our armed forces to knock on doors. Yes, Mr Mitsotakis, yes, Mr Tsipras, tell us which you consider to be red lines and what actions within these red lines are the first to strike. It's the six points, it's the ten miles, it's the twelve miles? Are you going to hit a ship doing research, or will you have to pull a drill and where? It is your duty as rulers now and recently to inform the Greek people. It is your duty to warn our partners, the European Union, our allies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u64	What do you think? What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Tsipras, it's over by Mr. Varoufakis. Don't get him out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u66	He's asking us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u67	Or don't you have red lines?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u68	What's your position? Should we hit each other?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u69	You've been a prime minister for four years. We have no position on this, we have a question that we have a sacred obligation as a party to counterpopulation to put to the current Prime Minister and to you. We'll tell you what our position is. But tell us, where are you running today, what are the red lines, when will you give the order for first strike? Because if you do not have red lines, as you did not have in the negotiations with the troika, you will end up in the permanent 'yes' to everything. We're listening. Prime Minister, to come to these two agreements with Italy and Egypt there is no doubt that these agreements earn points in the domestic game of communication with the media as well. But these same agreements that give you points of communication weaken your negotiating position towards Ankara. As for you of the Officer's Representation, what does it mean? Do you not understand that abstention in such a vote cannot be justified, that it reveals your deadlock? I understand that having embraced the same logic of the bilateral negotiations you would do exactly the same as Mr Mitsotakis, Mr Tsipras, if you were in Maximos today. The only disagreement within you is between those who believe that you had to vote for and those like you, Mr. Tsipras, fly a "dropped Hora" as you are in the opposition. As if we are still in the 1970s and there is a mighty Soviet Union that keeps the balance in the region. Ladies and gentlemen, the attitude of both the government and the Civilian Representation of the country is a difficult one. Your bilingualism is paving the way for a failed negotiation with Ankara, perhaps, after a warm episode. The nationalistic salts of your extreme right prepare you for a state-by-state retreat under the pressure of the Great Powers. This is the price of bilingualism, nationalist speech within and of the regularity of exemplary prisoners outside. But isn't it always done? Nationalism has always prepared the ground for sedition, while the Great Powers have been working friendlyly against the peoples of the region. Mr Mitsotakis, you are reminding me of Mr Tsipras just before the referendum. He was committed to signing anything they gave him. But he had a big problem. The SYRIZA world and a large part of the Greek people who did not want to be conspiracy. So are you today. You have committed yourself to Berlin, but you too have a big problem, the New Democracy world and a large part of public opinion that does not accept the commitments you have already made. We, as a PART25, reject both the endlessness of the international oligarchy without frontiers and the dangerous nationalist cries, which can easily lead to unnecessary war. I say it again, I said it before. As patriots, if necessary, we will fight. But we carefully select our "Thorophyles" by rejecting the nationalist cries, which history taught us is the precursor of the conspiracy. The international regional conference we are proposing is the best defence and a unique opportunity for honest peace in the region. They do not want it, of course, the Great Powers, to which both the Government and the Civilian Opposition are committed. We stress that the Greek people and the Turkish people only have to lose, both from the war and from the coup d'état required by the multinationals. At the same time, we do not regard internationalism as subjecting ourselves to the national requirements of Mr Erdogan. As Kennedy said - and I think you agree with that, it also governs your position - we will not negotiate with fear, but at the same time we will not be afraid to negotiate. We know that the best solution is the peaceful settlement of disputes with the countries of the wider region through unarmed multilateral dialogue. That is why Merra25 opposes bilateral negotiations under the Great Forces' supervision. That is why we are voting against the two agreements with Italy and Egypt, which do not fit into an effective overall strategy. As the devastated people await us - and we hope to unite against it - the throat of the new austerity that comes because of a coronary and the Turkish people will sink daily more and more deeply into poverty, we will insist on our permanent position. One-way for the progressive Greek women, for the progressive Greeks, is the proposal of Mera25 for an international regional conference in the Eastern Mediterranean, so that we do not fall into the trap that is being set up to turn the Mediterranean into a sea of prosperity, cooperation and sustainable common prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u70	As we said, the Prime Minister will give a second answer after the talks of the other political leaders, which have taken place. I mean, right now. President Kyriakos Mitsotakis, President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, therefore has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u71	Mr Varoufakis, I found the ratio that you made between Mr Tsipras' attitude in 2015 and my attitude, as you at least interpret it, five years later. Of course, I must tell you that you have been Mr. Tsipras' Minister. So more you need to know about that period. You're not my Minister, and I don't expect you to be. So solidate internal information to make such a comparison. I now come to the issues that I have heard. First of all, I would like to begin by the last comment made by the Chief of Staff Representation, which urged us to read his position as a creative approach, which does not undermine the national line as a whole. Mr Tsipras, I have to tell you that many of what you have said I agree with, because you have basically agreed exactly with what we are doing. You said in writing - and that you are consistent, because we had discussed it in private - that you agree with the partial demarcation which obviously does not deprive us of the right to proceed with full demarcation. You said you were in agreement with time, because you too realise the fact that the Turkish memorandum has created other data which have made this agreement more urgent. You said you were in agreement with the procedure followed. You said that each agreement also imposes some concessions, compromises, so that both parties feel that it is an agreement that is truly fair. So that's exactly what we did. And that is the agreement that we are bringing to the Greek Parliament for ratification. So is the reasonable question, Mr. Tsipras and gentlemen of the Officerial Representation, if you agree on all of them, how do you justify the'residents' as regards the party's official position in this critical vote? You're accusing us of speaking in two languages. You speak two languages. Because at the moment you are subjecting to your own internal dilemmas and internal contradictions. Because the half of the Group of the European People's Party clearly says what we have said and what you are basically saying, that, taking into account the great picture, this agreement is nationally beneficial. It is nationally beneficial, not only in terms of our relations with Egypt, but because it proves in practice at this critical juncture who stands on the side of the Law of the Sea, the International Law, that we can ultimately resolve our differences in this way. It is a message to all the recipients of the region, to all countries that have not yet made progress in such demarcations. On the other hand, you have some voices, such as the former Foreign Minister, who is colluding the agreement, which he was negotiating. And you know very well that the framework of the agreement has always been the same and never changed. You know it, I know it, Mr. Katrugalos knows it, Mr. Dendias knows it. So let us finally speak the language of the truth, which you so desire. This agreement is a very good agreement for the country. It would have been better, Mr Tsipras, if this agreement had been signed by you, for the simple reason that if it had been signed by you, it would have preceded the Turkish memorandum and it would not have followed it. For the most part, you have chosen not to sign this agreement, but at least make it to the National Representation today, so that you have internal follow-up to what you are saying. I have heard the criticism of the rest of the parties. I disagree. I will then come to some things that Mr Varoufakis said were interesting. But here, there is a large gap of internal continuity in the placement of your party. You are a Qualified Opposition. You're former Prime Minister. You handled these issues. You have been faced with the same dilemma as we are with. We have made the decision to make this move, because we are no longer tolerated in this state of permanent immobilisation of a country which invokes - and rightly so - international law, but has nothing to do with proving that it can ultimately use it for its benefit. So let us finally make a bold move and the National Representation, at least the three largest parties, together with the Civic Opposition, despite the individual reservations that I have heard, I have written them, to vote 'yes' in this agreement. Finally, put aside this irrational and non-explainable line. The 'present' is absent. I do not want to remind the Delegation of what you said about other cases when you were in the Response that you won other parties' choices that voted for 'they'. So there is an urgent need here to recognise the great acquis of this agreement and how it substantially changes the conditions of the game as a whole in the Eastern Mediterranean. I call on you, as a politician who handled these issues, even now, to do that over and vote in favour of the agreement, as KINAL did. KINAL said about the same thing you said. He did about the same thing. I dare say that on some points his criticism was more pronounced than what you said. However, it is taking the step and says in order not to break the national front, we will vote in favour of this agreement. You still have some time to think about it. It's not the first time you've done it. I would like to remind you that you voted 'at present' in the defence cooperation agreement with the United States which you negotiated. You then came as Opposition to vote 'the present'. You voted'residents' on hydrocarbons, effectively cancelling all the preparation that you had done again. That doesn't make you responsible for opposition. In this way, we are entitled to call you an Opposition of limited national responsibility. You have some more time to reassess your behavior and attitude. I now come to the question of extending the gyalitis zone to twelve miles. Things are getting more interesting here and it is good in this Chamber to remember the full story and what happened with this issue. This announcement was made, paradoxically, by the outgoing Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Kotzias, when he handed over to Mr. Katrugalo. It surprised you. Then you rushed underground to say that what Mr Kotzias meant was not to say exactly what he said, because he referred to a presidential decree and not to a law. But the truth remains, gentlemen, of Officer Responsibility. You had the opportunity to do it. You didn't! I imagine you haven't even been here in four and a half years to do it, and we're coming and we're doing it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I hope at least that you will come to this and when the relevant law comes to the House to vote for it, because it requires the national interest as a whole. I now come to an issue where I fear that you are also unfair to the phrases you have used, but you are unfair to all those who have now been late to serve national interests and to follow the lines of the prescribed state. When you come and talk about "opperet" - that is what you used, "opperet" - you are not insulting the government. You're insulting the Armed Forces! Insult the captain of the "LEMNOS"! You insult the captains of our submarines! You are insulting all those who are at the moment at a very difficult time to do exactly what they had commands to do and protect in the maximum possible way allowed by International Law - and you know that very well - our sovereign rights. I would therefore recommend that in these cases you be a little more careful about the designations, because you are in danger once again of misinterpreting yourself. I hear a criticism from the Opposition that the country does not have a foreign policy strategy. I find it difficult to understand this criticism, let alone when it is a foreign policy that produces concrete results. These agreements are concrete results which we are coming to vote on today. The decision to extend the gynaecological zone is a concrete decision that we are called upon to take. You are always referring to the one and only, as you consider to be, the acquis of your own governance which is the Presidencies' Agreement. We even used an interesting terminology that "the waters of the Prespes and the waters of the Aegean are shallow". Indeed, the water of the Prespes and the deep waters of the Aegean Sea are shallow. And comparing the Prespes with the issues that we are dealing with with with Turkey is totally insurmountable! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Are our northern neighbours a national threat? What are these things, Mr. Tsipras? How do you compare such disparate things? And how you allow yourself such a verbal diffusion. Our strategy from the start has been very clear and the interest is that behind words and behind the crowns - that also applies to Mrs Gennamas - behind the opposition tones, which to some extent I understand in the context of political dialogue, there is no substantial difference. We come here and say three things. The country needs strong alliances to present Turkey for which it is, a different Turkey from the one we know, a country that is a turbulence in the Eastern Mediterranean. The interests of Europe should be affected by Turkey's moves. So it's not just a bilateral matter. The interests of the Arab world must be affected by Turkey's moves. The interests of the United States must be affected. There was a reference to the United States. I imagine that you have referred only to the Libyan attitude, because the United States has, at least at the level of State Department, taken an unprecedented stand on the State Department's data support for Greek public positioning data. At the moment, then, one cannot see that Greece is with many, is with the alliance of international law, it is with those countries that express the same worthy code as us and Turkey is isolated, hence all this nervousness. And in any case, in order to answer Mr Varoufakis as well, who thinks we are about to do the favour of Turkey by signing this agreement, why is that anger, why this nervousness, why these extreme rhetoric expressions by the Turkish President? The truth is different. The truth is that the agreement we signed with Egypt breaks down once and for all the narrative of the 'blue country', because it proves in practice that the islands have a continental shelf and an EEZ. That is why Turkey is annoying! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So the first part of our strategy is strong international alliances. Secondly, the strengthening of the deterrent force of the Armed Forces. Mrs. Gennimata referred to this. He's not wrong. I've also told her before, she knows the issues, she's handled them. We have made very important moves as a government to correct the black mess which, unfortunately, our defence industries had found. We proceed with rapid moves and partnerships and privatizations where it takes, so that we can strengthen our domestic defence industry as a whole, and yes, where we need to make those targeted investments that our geopolitical position is unfortunately demanding. And if that means a few little more sacrifices than the Greek people, we must all agree together that these sacrifices must be taken care of so that we can finally shield our Armed Forces, so that we can hire staff. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] To be able to support aeroplanes which are currently flying with a huge effort and unfortunately very often in a situation where all agreements on their future support have not yet been signed. So second axle the strong deterrent ability of the Armed Forces. On the third axis, with regard to our discussions with Turkey, I have heard nothing different from either party, at least the Qualified Opposition from KINAL. I've heard different opinions from the other political leaders. We are here and say we are prepared to discuss with Turkey and regain the thread of exploratory zones from where they stopped in 2016, so on the one and only issue that concerns us, which is the definition of maritime zones in the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean. And yes, if we can't agree, we can end up with a promise and go to The Hague. This is a position that today expresses the majority of the political forces. It can be a position that still does not seem so sensitive to public opinion. But I have taken the courage, ladies and gentlemen, to speak about it, even though I know that sometimes this position can irritate some who are familiar with other visas, more pillistic. But there's a deal. There is a national line in this matter. Let us not present the situation in this Chamber in a different manner than it is just so that we can gain some opposition points. Finally, I found the report interesting to Eleftherios Venizelos. It's good for all of us to read more history. Perhaps my relationship with Eleftherios Venizelos, which is not just a short-haul relationship, but is also a family relationship, allowing me and giving me the right to see him more critically. And we must not forget that, unfortunately, one of the negative deposits that accompanys and will always accompany Eleftherios Venizelos was the national division, which also played a role in splitting up the country in an unprecedented way and not being able to bridge these wounds for many, many decades. We do not have the margin not to reach a new national division, but we do not have the margin today for the slightest suspicion of national unity not only to the people, but also to the political forces. I have never denied the goodwill of criticism, nor do I think that Parliament can and should be the echo of the government's energies. But let us have a sense of the criticality of the juncture, of the great moments and of how we are all involved today with our personal responsibility, but we are also involved with history. At this critical time when the country is taking a bold step, a step forward, at least in relation to how it understood its foreign policy all these years, I think it is a duty and duty as many parties as possible to vote today on the two agreements - not just the one - which we bring to ratification in the national Parliament. I'm closing up with a report that I found interesting. I couldn't follow Mr. Varoufakis' thoughts all. I have, however, retained a report which has been repeated many times. I remember, Mr Varoufakis, when I went to school, in our quarters there was a small saying in English that said, "I'm sorry I made this letter very long, I didn't have time to do it less." Sometimes you don't have to say the same thing ten times. You can say the same things in less time. But I understand that what you are defending is the need for a multilateral negotiation. That's an interesting idea. But multilateral negotiation is stumbling over a big problem. And the big problem is that very simply Turkey does not recognise the Republic of Cyprus as a state entity that can participate in this scheme. In your reasoning you did not make any reference to Cyprus. No mention of Cyprus! Of course, it would be a good thing if we could all sit at a table and have this debate. However, the question should not be addressed to us. It must be addressed to Turkey and to President Erdogan himself, who, too, at the edge of his speech and within the many things he has said, has mentioned the possibility for all countries to discuss. He is prepared to discuss with President Anastasiades as the only representative of the Republic of Cyprus, President of the Republic of Cyprus, the only state entity recognised by the European Union... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ... so we can have a conversation like this? If he says yes, then perhaps your proposal will be of real interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Varoufakis, I've seen you. Mr. Tsipras has asked for the floor. We'll go in order for the Heads' secondaryities after the Prime Minister's second language. The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Tsipras, therefore has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Mitsotakis, I listened with interest to your reference to Eleftherios Venizelos and at a troubled period for the country. And I listened with interest to your abhorrence - I do not know if you said so at the edge of your speech - that it has a responsibility for the national division. My feeling - here we could have a conference to talk about those times, which are very critical of the conclusions for the future - is that the main responsibility for national division has always been that part which has made national sensitivities a flag. And it was the culmination of the national sanctuaries when he won the elections in '20s by feeding to the people, the "house", "we'll go home, stop the war" and then arrived in Afion Karahisar, arrived outside Ankara, with all the consequences that this policy had for the national interests of the country. Why are you swinging your head? I hoped at least that's what we'd agree. So, Mr. Mitsotakis, let's agree here. In foreign policy matters, no one has any point in saying great words. The patriotism of each party shows him in practice and not in words and crowns of nationalism. I say this because you have created a toxic climate in national topics throughout the past period as a counter-population and on your own responsibility! - which led to the division - to a large extent - of the Greek people on a subject where there was a national line. I was also accused of not having a Council of Political Heads of State. I twice made a Council of Political Heads and once a critical national issue, which was the refugee issue. I did not do for the Macedonian, because the military opposition had taken a stand that was totally rejecting any attempt to negotiate and agree, rejecting the national line that had been formed since 2005 by your own governments and rejecting your positions and positions. So on foreign policy, Mr Mitsotakis, you have a nest of yours as a party. There too, I do not want to protest for a long time, but I would like you to try to give an answer here. It's another opposition. And it is a constructive role for an opposition. And then, as long as I was a Prime Minister, I had an opposition that held such a constructive attitude and not all of them. And it is good that we are keeping this constructive attitude and we are not voting in favour of this agreement today. And it makes you good that we are there and we say that Turkey violates sovereign rights by investigating when you do not dare - I mean it - to say so. And, moreover, I would like to point out to you that on the crucial issue of the agreement we are debating today with Egypt, it makes no sense to blame us for not signing before. You were going to hang us in the Constitution. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Here we announced the twelve nautical miles to the Ionian Sea and Mr Kumoutsakos came out - and you did not give an answer about it - which was not just a Member of Parliament, but a Foreign Policy Division - and Mr Kikilias, the Department of Defence, said the same thing - and blamed us...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u75	You're convinced, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u76	No, he didn't convince us at all, Mr. Mayor. He didn't convince us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u77	Why didn't you do it then?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u78	I'll tell you why we didn't. I'll answer. So I was saying that the extension to the twelve nautical miles - you said officially as a New Democracy and today you celebrate - undermines the fundamental principles of our foreign policy, because it enables Turkey to insist that the Aegean cannot fully implement the Law of the Sea, because this is a special case. Mr. Kotzias did not deliver to Mr. Kotzias. He delivered to me. I took over the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for about six months, with the Deputy Minister, Mr Katrugalo, with the main aim of completing the Prespecies Agreement. And he was in touch with me everything Mr. Kotzias said, because we planned that for months. Obviously, we were not in agreement - it will be aware that otherwise it is the final details that Mr Teddy is next to you - in how and when to bring this decision to fruition. Mr. Kotzias left a presidential decree. In consultation and with the Ministry's official leadership, we decided at that time that the most correct way is to exercise this inalienable right to be done through the legislative procedure. And, of course, when we went ahead, we announced and brought this matter to a debate in the House at that time in reply - if I remember correctly - to a timely question from your Member and we defended it and said that it would proceed immediately after the European elections. And then you fell to eat us on the grounds that we leave the Aegean. So, let us tell you today that why don't you go to Tinaro and not go a little further east, why don't you extend both to the south of Crete, why don't you extend to the east of Crete at the same time? These are matters to which - I imagine - you will at some point respond. Because it is our indiscriminate right to extend to twelve nautical miles, but of course it is important to all things in policy, especially foreign policy, when you choose to do what. As far as the agreement with Egypt is concerned, you tell us why we did not. Why didn't you do it before? Before we ruled again, you, your resignation, 2005-2009 and 2011-2014. There were negotiations, didn't there? And at that time we were negotiating with Libya for an exclusive economic zone - if I am not mistaken, Mrs Bakoyannis, you will know that better than me - that Libya did not have this pro-Turkey - let me say so - status with this government today. Because then the dominant concept - and which has existed for many years - in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was the famous 'Molyviat' dogma, immobile, non-consolidated. It was the line that said 100% influence on everything and the middle line, or else we don't agree or I'm wrong? Now you're shifting from that doctrine. But why don't you say so? Why don't you say it? What bothers me and should bother the last Greek citizen is hypocrisy in foreign policy. You are portraying - I say it once again - the chlamysmos in the shallow waters of the Prespes, but in the critical issues and in the deep waters of the Aegean we are backing. You were the ones who had adopted this doctrine and now retreat from this doctrine. We say yes, when you go to make a compromise, you can make concessions. Go out and tell them clearly. Our disagreement on the Agreement with Egypt focuses on three crucial points which I have analysed - I believe - in summary terms. The most important thing is the 28th meridian. We did not sign this, we would not sign it. Mr. Teddy, I didn't say we didn't negotiate. But you and I were negotiating at the time, you blamed us as traitors and endemics. And now you come and sign everything with both hands, as well as the Prespecies Agreement. That's hypocrisy. So we would not sign and agree to sign a partial agreement, but would adopt Turkey's red rhetoric for the 28th mediterranean. And we would not sign this not only so that we do not do Turkey's favour, but because we know the consequences and consequences that such acceptance can have and the de facto operation to break down our sovereign rights from the point where the Agreement leaves Egypt and the east. And that is the most important consequence and, above all, the fact that you are not ready for defence and diplomatic defence to defend these consequences. We will not vote against today because we are in a position of responsibility. But we have a national obligation to highlight the dangers. And I close, Mr Mitsotakis, saying this: we are asking you to make a Council of Political Heads, because we believe that at these critical moments, the views of all the political forces should be recorded. And we believe that at these critical times, what matters above all is that there should be an elementary agreement on the national strategy from now on. This is crucial because, with a lack of a national strategy, the risks are present and they are great. This is crucial because we have a neighbour who is escalating the tension with unforeseen dimensions. And this is crucial because it does not escalate the tension without a strategy. The worst thing that can happen to the country and our national interests is not to go to an international court and lose something that we were supposed to win, but to lose it without even going to an international court.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u79	Now I'm going to call at the Step for her denial of the president of the Group of the Parliamentary Party of Change Movement, Mr. Fofi Gennamas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. The first thing I would like to point out is that the responsibility for the end of the national division has been held by the PASOK and the democratic party, who have put an end to this story, has closed the wounds of the past, those who have been so anxious all these years since the start of the economic crisis and so far you are fighting for New Democracy and SYRIZA to reopen. At last, that's enough! It's time for the Greeks to go to Greece ahead. Only united can we achieve this! Will you finally understand that? You have a responsibility before the Greek people! Listen, Prime Minister. You have not answered any of the questions I asked you. Avoid answering and committing even to the completion of the agreement, to the timetable, to state clearly that this partial agreement does not mean any concessions, it does not mean that we are assigned, but we continue to claim the whole agreement with Egypt, we continue to support our standing principles with regard to our islands. You told me nothing about the influence of the islands either on Crete or on Carpathos or on Rhodes or on any island or on the Ionian Sea. You have given no answer about what is happening with the 'ORUC REIS'. You have not even disproved the man you have given up, your safety adviser, we have not received any answers and we have not heard any clear binding statement from you on very important issues for which the Greek people have to answer. You told us that our differences are just for a opposition show in fact and that we agree on almost everything and there is a national line. If you think there is a national line and a national strategy, and all we say about opposition, then why do you deny the meeting of the Political Heads of State? And it is very easy every time the Prime Minister puts the blame on the previous ones and we will continue to do it for many years, if we do not finally sit around a table and draw up a national strategy for our foreign policy and national issues that goes beyond the mandate of a government, which will have a long time and will actually be about the Greek people and not about the interests of each Prime Minister and his government. I have heard Mr Tsipras say that his attitude and his party's attitude are in favour of you, he supports you. He did not have to tell us, but it is the first time he has confirmed it. We've said it too many times. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] If he didn't exist, you'd have to find out. But we Prime Minister, the Change Movement, are politicising the interests of the Greek people, to defend and support our national interests, our sovereign rights and that is why we expect specific answers and commitment from you. I challenge you once again for a Council of Political Heads of State, because that is where it will appear whether there is a national line or not. I don't want to go back into the same conversations. We have said too many times in this Chamber that, when there was a need in 2015, we participated in the Council of Political Heads and we put our backs on the place and sometimes you should recognise this and stop saying what opposition you had toward you. You started with the best conditions, with the support of almost all the parties, so that Greece could stay within the Eurozone, within the European Union, and today it is more than ever proved to be of great value and how important the attitude of the opposition at the time in 2015 was. So I repeat that it is important to listen to commitments from you, clear positions on the red lines of your government, and finally close this Council of Political Heads, to see if there is a national line and what each one of us says in this particular context that Turkey has changed its line. Because it matters every time to assess our foreign policy on the basis of the facts. It is not today the data with Turkey that were the same as a decade ago. And alas, if that's not understood by the leaders of the political forces in this Chamber. Woe for the place! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u81	Mr Varoufakis, President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats). Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, you said I did not mention Cyprus in my long position. Eventually, did you see that it needed repetition? Because the saying which I think should be used as your reply is the'repettio est master studio' for you, namely that repetition is a mother of learning. I read you from my speech and may refer to the Minutes: "A such conference excludes the curators, minimises tensions, allows the separation of EEZ from other Greek-Turkish disputes and, at the same time, force Ankara to either isolate itself by refusing to come because it does not recognise the Republic of Cyprus or recognise the Republic of Cyprus." Obviously, Mr Erdogan, if you invite him, if you convene the conference of all the countries of the Eastern Mediterranean, as proposed by Mera25, he can return and refuse by saying that he does not come if the Republic of Cyprus participates. It will be a great deal of diplomatic and communication costs of such a refusal on the part of Mr Erdogan. Furthermore, even if this is the case, it will be very much reduced, to a very significant extent, the pressure on you by Mrs Merkel, from Washington for concessions in bilateral dialogue with Turkey. You raised another matter. Did you say that, if we are right about Mera25, which we believe these bilateral agreements, for example, in Greece - Egypt, are finally of benefit to Turkey, they strengthen Turkey's negotiating position, then why are they yelling at it, why are they breaking their garments, threatening when they hear about our agreement with Egypt? The answer is why the bilateral with Egypt helps them, as well as proclaiming against Egypt in advance. Is it hard to understand that? There is an American saying that applies here. That's how Mr. Erdogan thinks when he sees you, Prime Minister: never interrupt your opponent when he commits himself. And if you need to be ordained "what are you doing?" For pre-structural, communicative reasons, because this helps even more your attitude, Erdogan's attitude, that's what you're doing. Prime Minister, the aim here is not the coconut battles between us. The aim is the national interest. Mera25 has a lot of responsibility. I'll say it one more time and you'll blame me for repeating it. It's one of the things that matters to us. I do not want to think we have the monopoly of truth. You believe that these bilateral agreements strengthen you in a dialogue with Turkey. We believe that this is not the case. We believe that as we go to a multi-day negotiation it is best for you, for us, for our country and for the Eastern Mediterranean in general to start with the multi-day negotiation and go with a request for co-determination in The Hague, if necessary, in pairs but multiplely agreed before. Let the Greek Government ask for it, you. You guys take the majesty. You must convene such a meeting in Athens. It will give special points on the Greek side, will reduce the pressure on you, will cancel many of Erdogan's plans. We mean that. We're here to testify our opinion. It is very important that you and the rest of the Opposition realise that we are voting against today not in the context of a confrontation, but in the context of a sincere disagreement on what is helping national interests, what will bring peace to the region, what will prevent war, what will prevent co-existence in favour of EHON and TOTAL, rather than in favour of the peoples, what will make the Eastern Mediterranean and the Aegean Sea of peace, cooperation and common prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, will you answer? Oh, no. So we move on to the debate. The first of the speakers will be invited, Mrs Bakoyannis, on behalf of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, the role of a Member of Parliament who rises first after the leaders of the parties have spoken. So I will be content with two - three comments following this morning's very carefully all this has been addressed in this Chamber. It's an ingrained part of me, but it's an ingrained part of the counterpopulation today. For by paying close attention to the rapporteur, Mr Katrugalo, whom I know and appreciate, but also to the Chief of Staff Response, one realizes how difficult it is to find arguments politically and opposition to a substance with which you agree. And that is the reality today in this Chamber. We really agree. We agree on all basics. We agree that this agreement should be made. We agree that this should be done now. I am talking about the Egyptian agreement, because there were no objections to it anyway. We agree that a de facto agreement has compromises and that it has better and less good points, but that it should be done. Why did it have to be done? Because Greece had to give a very specific, legally guaranteed answer, a legally guaranteed answer that we need and we have sought for all these years and we have not really managed to achieve. Mr. Tsipras asked me why we hadn't moved on before. I personally had gone to Egypt four times, and had spoken to Mr Mubarak, but indeed, at that time, the main position of Greece, which was the whole agreement, and Egypt's main position was in scale opposite. It was hard to find a common point. So yes, we have today made a partial agreement, but a partial agreement on which we all agreed in advance that we had to go ahead with it. The criticism was made because precisely the 28th, not the entire Rhodes, and then we leave the region of Kastelorizos alone. In my humble opinion - I have the opportunity to say this a little more openly, I do not express the Greek Government - would be wrong. It would be a mistake to go by leaving Kastelorizo alone, symbolic and, in my opinion, essential. There has been criticism of the issue of the extension to twelve miles. Another criticism you could make, ladies and gentlemen. If at the time we signed the agreement we should not have extended it at the same time and extended one month later, twenty days later, during that period. I would understand that criticism. However, would it be appropriate, ladies and gentlemen, to extend 12 miles unnecessarily, i.e. without an agreement with Italy? Would that be the proper policy? Leave the criticism of whether we should have done so with regard to Turkey, etc., etc. On the substance of the matter, I tell you what would have been the result if you had extended to twelve miles without an agreement with Italy? We would have added one Italy to the list of countries which bear the blame of Greece. Wouldn't that be the result? Why? Because fishermen would be a burden on the Italian Government in the same way as they have been hit all this time and this agreement has not been possible. That's the reality. Today, with the agreement we have the extension, it is a necessary move, but also a safe move. It does not in any way reduce any of the country's allies. Ladies and gentlemen, things with Turkey are very bad. I am among those who have been watching Turkey for too many years. It would allow me to say that I consider myself to be one of the people who knows her well. It is very bad, because there is a structural change now in Turkey. Mr. Varoufakis has given us a great deal of reason for the interests, etc. I agree on one thing with him: in the long term, it is not the issue of hydrocarbons. It is that Turkey from a basic policy, which was to turn internally, which was the key line of Ataturk, has now finally decided to turn towards the sea, with what that means. That is indeed a change. The second change is that for the first time today Turkey does not face a Syria or a Libya, i.e. broken countries, where it can send some soldiers, some people and earn points on the map. For the first time in Turkey is facing an organised country, a European Union country, an ally, a country that in Evros has demonstrated its ability to effectively protect its borders - it proves every day in the Aegean - and a country which creates alliances. If there was one reason why we were unable to convince you - we were unable to convince you to vote for this agreement, poorly in my opinion - but if there was one reason to do so, beyond all the others, it would be to read very carefully what Javasoglu said yesterday and what Erdogan said yesterday. Reading these two texts, you would have understood the size of the anger - and let me say - of the suffocation it feels. The criticism of Europe, the criticism of the Arab countries, the criticism of all of them, a Turkey that today appears in the Turkish press isolated and encircled by enemies, did not happen from one hour to the next. This was after a lot of efforts, conscious efforts made by Greek diplomacy and managed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Prime Minister, the universe, I will also put the Chief of Officer Response in, with everything that anyone can achieve today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I conclude by saying this: ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of talk about The Hague. I personally have heard no more when the conversation came back from January last year. What's the reality? The reality is that this is the country's permanent strategic position. It's neither mine nor Mr. Tsipras, nor Mr. Mitsotakis, nor Mr. Teddy, nor anyone. This is the country's fixed position. Greece will go to a negotiation with Turkey, will do everything it can to find some form of agreement on specific issues and where this agreement is not possible, we will agree to go to The Hague. That was the country's fixed position. She's still there. And don't forget: it's power for the country that our strategy is common. It is a force for the country that at the moment the three major parties that have governed, who know what responsibility is, have the same strategy. So let's not ruin it at the last minute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u85	Mrs Anagnastopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA. There's been a change with Mr. Amanatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, find my position difficult after the political leaders, where everything has been exhausted. However, I shall begin with one observation. It is a pity that today at such a critical time for the country and our region we are discussing two critical agreements and Civic Opposition agreements is SYRIZA. I can't imagine what would have happened if the other way around. We can finally talk quietly. That is why I cannot under any circumstances accept any type of challenge from the government for what we will vote if the'resident' is abstention from history, leaving history, etc. To stress directly from the outset: SYRIZA's party has never only escaped history, it has always been in history and on the basis of it has drawn up foreign policy. Others tried and try to bring history to their measure. Indeed, we are in a critical phase. Indeed, Turkey - and because I can say that I have been dealing with this country for many years, I would have been aware of it quite well - has raised its provocativeness in recent months and I would say not only in recent months, if we are looking ahead to the situation, for too long. But I want to say two things. The Prime Minister today declared the new patriotism. So he said: we have a new patriotism. To what is this new patriotism, to have all the data publicly on the table? A compromise is the first, indeed, and we are pleased, even though neither the Prime Minister nor anyone else has confessed. Foreign policy without compromises cannot be achieved. But the Prime Minister said something else. That the more we do, the more we grow, the more compromises become painful. I am pleased with the criticism made by the party itself, which had adopted the logic of inertia for years and that it serves national interests. Because, yes, Mrs Bakoyannis, it was inactive when the national objectives were them, the whole diplomatic chapter of the country was concerned with being at the height of national objectives, which only the Right had put - the KINAL has then helped - and now coming these goals you are changing together together, without even the Council of Political Chiefs. Let's get serious here. A national strategy is not only made by the New Democracy. Yours, ours, and ours, cannot apply to a democratic country. You have therefore decided, because of the situation, because of the special circumstances, that the effect of 100% of all the islands, the average line and the extreme limits of the continent are not in the national interest. Say it democratically, because it is of great value. For you have disciplined this Greek people with various things. You use, you have hidden weapons in your patron, which you take out anytime, various national dogmas, which you yourself are undoing, and you are resurrecting. You must decide with everyone that for these reasons we are going to something else. You want a painful compromise? I won't put aggressive determinations at all. I'll say it's foreign policy compromises. But say it. They must be agreed, the Greek people must listen to them and know what we are talking about. Not tomorrow, Mrs Bakoyannis, show up here in the National Parliament and call the other traitors. The Prime Minister spoke of the national division. As a historian, I am not going to enter the debate, because we will laugh and I do not want to see it right now. But national division is thus being built, mainly through foreign policy. I'm saying a place of office, I think it's right, and I'm doing everything I want under pressure. This is how foreign policy becomes under pressure, because there are other interests around. At least we agree on them. On the other hand, I am not saying anything sincerely. I'm not talking about anything with honesty, but I'm using them as weapons against others. I appreciate Mr. Treasury for one single reason. Everything else I disagree. When it became crazy, when Parliament was embarrassed, the President of the Officers of the Anti-Population, and then the opposition - and not only - must call national traitors the elected government and say dogmas for which I have spoken to you, to which the country had agreed since the beginning of the 20th that they do not apply, namely Macedonia is one and it is Greek, he was the only Mr. Dendias who came out with boldness and said: "Greek Macedonia is Greek". I, as a democrat man, owe it to him. Secondly, we have voiced right from the outset that our 'parents' have political content. It's not a story escape. He's barely in history. And it has political content for one reason: of course - and here I shall disagree with Mera25 a little - despite the fact that I am in favour of the multilateral conferences, Turkey does not accept Cyprus, does not accept other countries. This does not, however, remove the right of each country to make bilateral agreements on issues relating to it and burning it, to demarcate areas, etc. But what strategy? And we will insist on that. When the Prespecies Agreement was made, it did not make a deal like that. An agreement was reached, with a view to the European perspective of the Western Balkans to stabilise the region. It was based on solidarity, friendship, interdependence, and it was a guide: Turkey, in fact, wanted to put it in the Balkans. And there it had to stop somehow. On the other hand, we are taking advantage of the European framework. And there, our red lines are making them European lines. And here, Minister, I would like to insist on one thing: it is not foreign policy that exercises. Rehabilitation - Pantelis Boukalas, one of the excellent authors, explained them very well - is that I leave my interests in great hands. You're not leaving your interests in big hands. You take advantage of the cracks, you take the lead in putting your own interests in the middle of the agenda...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u87	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u88	I'll be right over. And the sanctions had that meaning. That's not all. Mr Varvitsiotis said to me: 'Our sanctions are not our choice'. It's not our choice one. It's not our choice. You left the time. And we reach the agreements and say that the Greek-Egypt Agreement as it is at this time when it is being done for pervasion and cancellation of the Turkish Pact makes sense. But there is no point in the details - which are not details - at this juncture, especially without a strategy. I will close with one thing: 'Paris' has political content. I, and after everything that has been done and with the responsible attitude that we are holding, strongly denying the government to lift our finger on what we should be voting on and what we should not vote on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u89	Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u90	We are voting for what we see in the country's interests. That's what we do and that's how we keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u91	Thank you. Mr Ioannis Amanatidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I can quote to you that, because that is exactly the case, I will read to you my speech with the party, as I did in the programming statements. Our firm position as a party is the peaceful resolution of our differences as a country and the defence of our sovereignty and sovereign rights on the basis of the rules of international law. After all, these rules must be based on the cooperation and friendship of the States and with them are founded and built up. With this position as a government stable and without repetitions and contradictions, we conducted a multidimensional and active policy that strengthened Greece's position and its role in the international, European and regional scene, a policy that with contacts at the level of leaders, at the level of cooperation of the countries of the South, at the level of bilateral, tripartite and quadripartite cooperation, through the development of international initiatives and a positive agenda for actions made our country a pillar of stability and development in the wider region with the emblematic agreement of the Ambassadors, which liberated valuable, especially today diplomatic capital and added prestige to our country by serving the national line, a national line that was blocked by then pluralism as the New Democracy in order to get government power. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the ratification of the Greek EEZ delimitation agreements with Egypt and Italy is taking place within a climate of upgraded reform, aggressive and violating behaviour on the part of Turkey, and we can only take account of the situation. However, how we have reached this point must become self-criticist by the government and finally understand the vacuum of a national strategy for a year that, with the wrong estimates of retreat, retreat, contradictory messages, other domestic and other foreign messages and, above all, with the delay of raising the question of sanctions which, according to Mr Borrell's representative, has now become 'options' and not sanctions, in the absence of Euro-Turkish dialogue, has contributed to these developments. Likely and essentially blindly blinded by arrogance does not go on convening the Council of Civilian Heads, calling for Officer Response and not only to close gaps and with a national strategy to have determination, but above all for efficiency in our national issues with unity and national understanding. This may put the country at greater risk. It needs a national strategy, which defends the country's sovereign rights and works to relaunch research into EEZ and continental shelf, by appealing to The Hague, if they fail. In this context, our President, Alexis Tsipras, emphasised to the German Foreign Minister at their meeting within the initiatives of the German Presidency of the European Union the need for the European Union to assume its responsibilities in defending the sovereign rights of Greece and Cyprus and to accept the prospect of strong sanctions in the context of a substantial Greek-Turkish dialogue. In this context, he stressed that only on this basis and at the end of Turkish challenges can the conditions for re-launching exploratory shelf-life and EEZ, without intervention by third countries on the agenda of talks, be created in order to ensure that exploratory research fails, bring an appeal to The Hague. Ladies and gentlemen, our position on such agreements as Members of Parliament and as parties is to be taken into account not only in their context and political dimension but also in the implications for the future of national interests and the national strategy that is absent. This is the next step, the next day, the story eventually. So, with regard to Greece's demarcation agreement with Italy, we are voting in favour, considering that it is, despite the important compromises on which it is based, a positive step for the country. But we call on the government to extend territorial waters, which has been done. As far as the agreement on the demarcation of the EEZ of Greece with Egypt is concerned, our political position is expressed in the'represent' because, on the one hand, the agreement facilitates the illegal Turkish-Sarage agreement, but on the other hand it can create negatively precedents in future negotiations and a great effort will be needed to ensure that the agreement is not used by Turkey in its well-known perversion manner as the previous one, since this agreement does not fall within a coherent national strategy. In particular, the Government avoids clarifying the methodology used to demarcate and combining the rule of average line with the principle of proportionality. It is characteristic that the Foreign and Defence Committee's statement on this issue at the previous meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security is that the method of finding the line is to meet the will of two sovereign states. I repeat for the Minutes: 'Finding up the method of this line does not conceal a method, it is a meeting of the will of the two sovereign states, of absolute will as envisaged'. That was the statement in committee. Secondly, the Agreement allows for the creation of negative precedents in relation to the reduced influence of Crete and the partial delimitation of the EEZ. It allows Egypt and Turkey to demarcate between the east of the 27th 59th, as you said, and 59 degrees of summer, with the sole obligation of Egypt to inform and consult Greece, without the need for our country's agreement, since the geographical coordinates of A will certainly not change. The Agreement with Egypt provides in Article 3 that any difference in its interpretation and implementation will be resolved through the diplomatic path in a spirit of understanding and cooperation. It therefore does not contain an appeal clause either to the International Court of The Hague or to arbitration. This provision is problematic if we have a long time of diplomatic consultations in the event of disagreement on the application and interpretation of the agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, I close my position in the way I started it. Greece must resolve the differences peacefully with dialogue, but with a view to defending national sovereignty and rights on the basis of international law and an active multi-dimensional policy. We have served this policy and it will continue to serve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u93	Thank you. Now Mr. Scandalides has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, at a crucial moment for the country, I have no intention of triumphing our successes or of conquering the government for failures. I am not claiming the label of the pillowist or the realist, the supranationalist or the end-employer who sees all it white - black and who irresponsibly maintains a national division of fanatical defender either the bearing of self-sufficiency or the feeling of volunteering, a division which has repeatedly paid at an expensive price the place. And to repeat a revulsion of our President, this fact that I have the honour of participating and representing has been historically the only counterweight to the divisions experienced by the country. Ladies and gentlemen, the pursuit of bilateral agreements on the demarcation of a continental shelf and an EEZ that the government is trying, despite the vulnerabilities and compromises, is generally in the right direction. Indeed, it is good to continue the effort with other adjoining countries, as well as to proceed with the conclusion by negotiating the partial agreement with Egypt, for which the Prime Minister has not now committed himself. Our positive vote today stems from a sense of patriotic responsibility, which has always marked the identity and consciousness of this party, firstly because the agreement with Italy gives us the right to move on to the extension of our territorial waters to twelve miles in the Ionian Seas and the Southern Seas, an undeniably positive measure for it, precisely the phase that we are going through and then because the Agreement with Egypt is perpetuating the Turklobian pact, and at the moment it shows that the country is not subject to the rifts. Evidently, the Government put the balance at a critical moment the benefit and harm of the partial delimitation of the EEZ with the geographical exception east of the twentieth eighth mediterranum that leaves Kastelorizo out. When you move on to this assumption, it means that you have designed the next steps and I believe that here is the gap that we are meeting today. Before the analyses of the positive, in fact, agreement with Egypt that originally caused Turkey's reaction and international isolation, Erdogan proceeded and insisted on another step after the Turklobian pact, doubtless questioning Greece's sovereign right. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, there was no deterrence and I am not talking about any war conflict. I am talking about the country's ability to prevent our continuing violation of a particular sovereign right. And that means to us empty strategy. What is the attitude of the European Union and America? Factual and rhetoric are in favour of us. It's actually neutral. Talking about NATO and its own neutrality is, I think, futile. These reactions are sufficient to prevent Turkish infraction. Oh, no. And I ask: is it the aim of Turkey to pull Turkey into the negotiating table by every means, even without predetermined conditions, and only on the basis of the future reference to The Hague, which is impossible in a planned and long time? I'm gladly saying no. Ladies and gentlemen, it is some historic moments that you have to choose a path because the conditions have changed radically and the previous one has come to an end. Unfortunately, we do not understand that 2020 is not 1999, nor for Turkey, and it is unfair for the Prime Minister to say that so far there has been a standstill strategy. Greece did not stand still when it made the 'Six Movement', neither when it made the revision of the memorandum of accession, nor when it brought the MOKs, nor did it make the accession of Cyprus to the European Union, nor when it brought the Helsinki Agreement. It was the political initiative and agreed national strategy, which had tangible results. Now, however, for 20 years now, it seems that the data have changed slowly both in Turkey's strategy and orientation and in Greece's position and in Greece's ability that two opposite objectives are opposed in the wider region. On the one hand, we now have the expansionist, militaristic, revisionist and escalating strategy of an Islamic regional force seeking a vital place for sovereignty in the Eastern Mediterranean, and on the other hand, we have a European country that is content with a defensive negotiating and judiciary stance to prevent new stones. The balance is negative and needs to be changed. That is why a new national strategy is needed. The Prime Minister today in a top parliamentary process pledged to increase to twelve miles of the territorial water to the west and reiterated that Greece is not dismantling any sovereign right. I have to tell the international community that I have pre-empted the West, the UN, that the European Union has a full picture of what the application of the rules of international law means to us and how the red lines are defined, behind which Greece is in no way going to retreat. I do not want to go into specific proposals that at times see the light of publicity as, for example, the establishment of base points for the closure of the tricks, such as the submission to the UN of coordinates for the Greek continental shelf, such as the printing of maps on illegal Turkish claims. That will be judged by a government and judged by a council. It will judge it in a single national strategy, but it must put these issues on the table. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the individual government initiatives are not enough nor is there an opportunity for aggressive diplomacy. There is a need for a strategy that, from now on, for a medium-term period of time, will pursue - and here I want to be clear, and here we are all judged, and this is the new in the national strategy at this particular stage from now on and in the next long term - the geostrategic upgrading of the country in the region. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I need a minute. We need to have an aggressive target to have a national strategy, not just to prevent it. Upgrade geostrategic and its role in the European Union and its role in relation to its wider alliances in the West. To stop here and now be the country where we deliver our European signature or signature on economic agreements or base concessions with only a reflection of verbal announcements and statements of support. I do not accept that two voyages of Greek Prime Ministers within a period of one year in the United States only brought bases and agreements, verbal wordings of sympathy from beyond the Atlantic superpower. We had to demand concrete decisions and actions. And I have the impression - that is what we mean when we say "Greek united" - that if we all pursue this systematically within the framework of an agreed national strategy... They say a lot of people about the Board of Chiefs, communist, verbal, show that we are united. Not even. Why? We will do this to simply testify to our views as parties. I say, no. I say that the Heads of State or Government needs to draw up the new national strategy and all together to claim what belongs to us both in the region and in the country's course for the future, from now on. That's why we need the stiff inner front. So the political leadership of the country, united, must support every initiative that implements it, is enough not to choose our internal outlets, our internal trenches, our micropolitics for tomorrow's day, because we now consider tomorrow's decade for the country and the 20 years tomorrow, and we are at the most critical moment that the Greek people need to show what they need to hear, that we are united in claiming Greece's new role.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u95	Thank you. The Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 Mr. Claus Gregoriadis has the floor now. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Nikolaos Papanastasis will be given the floor from the Communist Party of Greece. The Minister will follow and have asked after the Minister for the floor the Parliamentary Representatives of SYRIZA, the Change Movement and the Communist Party of Greece. Please, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, as you can see, I now have more time to start after so many political leaders, Prime Ministers, Chiefs of Officer's Response to learn the same things. I would just say that Merra25 is obviously against every bilateral negotiation, let alone if this negotiation does not only exist, but is leading the mediator, according to the commonly called pimp - I am sorry for the expression - and indeed a pimp at Mr Trump's or Mrs Merkel's level, with a chance to destroy small countries in the past. Such a proponent is the one who wants this agreement, which is more or less intended for this agreement to enter into negotiations between us and Turkey. I would like to take this opportunity, therefore, since I think that the subject has been exhausted, to go to another big subject. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, as I imagine everyone in here is aware, we have heard. And we have heard not, unfortunately, again - with a Turkish fry, but with a global krone! As you will well understand, things this summer became unrelentingly very difficult from where this spring was very easy. That's what they fantasized about. And let me ask a few rhetoric questions, of course, about the government, the Prime Minister, first and foremost, and the relevant ministers, secondly. Firstly, you tell me how it becomes the most responsible people of the world until early July has become the most irresponsible party - animal of the world by mid-August. Secondly, when Mr Mitsotakis, Mr. Prime Minister, speaks to Parliament, what is going on? Is the coroner scared and leaving? I ask why I went to the trouble after worrying about my health, counting myself one - one and measuring eleven Members in total in the Chamber. If I am not deceived, as it happens as a parliamentary representative to take part in the Conference of Presidents, a limit of sixty Members has been set. So if the Prime Minister is speaking, because he is afraid of his prestige, then in this case, I mean if he has such supernatural powers, our Prime Minister is automatically called upon to put them directly in our national struggle, you know in the committee led by Mr Tsiodras against pandemic and others. Third question: have we or have we had no new cases of the virus for almost fifteen days at the end of June and at the beginning of July? We did. We all know we had it. It was called the TV that the Mera25 doesn't lead. Trust me. How did we get to, like, two hundred eighty so many, a month and a half after? You all know how. I'll tell you too. You opened the border. That's how we got there. You have opened the border to save, it is supposed, tourism, which, of course, was not saved at all. Do you think that in planes and ships this specific virus, the CIVID -19, is not being transmitted? Is that why you left initial announcements that there will be gaps in the planes, either a series or three rows between the two other three rows? You forgot about that. You have just been told by the European colossus or the global aerial colossus "I do not step back in Greece unless you satisfy me all my capitalist terrain and whipping", you said: "Yes, ye man, come in, gentlemen, eat what you can" and so on. You, ladies and gentlemen of the House, the government, the Prime Minister, who leads your resignation, opened up the borders in my opinion for fools - apologies for the expression of seriousness - because tourism had no chance of resurrecting and was not resurrected, as it emerged. But you opened the border and allowed planes and ships. I travelled with both of them, and I have to tell you that by returning from Skyros the other day, on Saturday, no one heated me and two more thousand who entered this ferry. Nobody knows how many people got stuck on this ship. Nobody knows how many people had the virus on Skyros. Nobody knows anything in general. Or do you think that on ships it's not stuck, but it's transmitted wonderfully and rapidly to the baptisms, the marriages, the beach bars, and especially to the fairs? I want you to know - and I'm really stopping this tone too - that people are laughing out there with those shells of a government that is falling into such contradictions. These contradictions are ridiculous and you do it systematically. Fourthly, a tip friendly from Mera25 to all the "shippers" MPs of the Coupling. You're demonizing our young people. But because you know that the vast majority of them are not your voters, but they have been looking elsewhere - you know all polls for a year between the ages of seventeen and thirty-two give the Merra25 at more than 10% - so you know that, you are looking at the Greeks. You say it's not our fault that we opened the border, it's not our fault that we said "patients, dogs, algeys", come Germans, come British people - with huge coronary percentages - come Belgians, it's all right, stick us up, but it's our fault that young people disappear, the same young people who were the model of youth all over the world. These responsible youths became irresponsible party animals all of a sudden. However, my advice is this: by allowing them not to forget that your parents remain your constituents to a very large extent. The parents of these same youths are your voters. So a strange climate is being created in the family. You know, parents will finally defend their children and mostly know what you did with the border. They don't make fun of them. I will finish very quickly, Mr President. When will the schools open? You know, they were to open at 7:00, and now the month is over. What is it? Is this the last-minute surprise? Because if it is the surprise of the last moment, it is not at all, but at all serious government, the one that governs the place. And the last one. Because I have heard Mr Mitsotakis say about the wonderful rescue that our port government makes to immigrants and refugees today, that is, the Greek Government - because with the port we have no issue - I really would like to ask about a few things. I have heard today that we are the champions in solidarity, humanism and our behaviour towards all these illegal immigrants. So the New York Times write that since March at least a thousand seventy two refugees and not immigrants seeking asylum in Greece have been thrown into the sea by Greek officers in thirty different episodes of deportation. In this respect, the ‘New York Times’ invokes survivors' interviews, photographic and microscopic ‘proof’ material and, in addition, thirty one of these episodes are invoked by three independent observers and two academic researchers. Then the post hosts statements from a Syrian teacher, Syria, not even Afghan. You know, great people, these Afghan, ugly people, throw them into the sea! But for Syrians, no, you can't tell about them. They're good people, they're our people!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u98	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. So, then, the report invokes the statements of a Syrian teacher, who you know what he denounced? He reported that Greek officers, with covered persons, took her along with twenty more two children - among them and two babies - in the night from a detention centre from our island of Rhodes - on July 26th at night - and then left them on a raft without helmet and motor, to be finally rescued from the Turkish coastguard. Congratulations. Good for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u99	We're on. Mr. Nikolaos Papanastassis, from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor now, and the Minister will then speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. The Prime Minister in his dentistry accused Mr. Tsipras that, as an operetus of some government practices, he offended the officials of the Armed Forces. He even separated by mentioning the governor of the "LEMNOS" freshener as a result of the well-known exercise. Let both Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis know that the members of the Armed Forces do not offend them in Parliament. They are other things that affect them, such as - for example - the element that arises from the recently signed Greek-American agreement converting their country into an endless American camp, force, blood and uprooting for the peoples of the region. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Italian agreement on the definition of maritime zones in the Ionian Sea was signed on 9 June and on 6 August the corresponding partial demarcation of the EEZ with Egypt. The signing of these agreements was preceded, in fact, by rapid processes and arrangements for the implementation of co-financing projects in the Aegean and Eastern Mediterranean. These developments also set out the framework which wide opens the way for the co-management and co-existence of hydrocarbons in the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean. The main element of this is high naval surveillance. And here it is necessary to point out that it is common when a government signs an agreement with another state to ensure that this agreement serves the so-called national interests. On the basis of the agreements currently being ratified, we saw the government's propaganda mechanism cultivating the image of a huge diplomatic success. There have been expressions of historical moments and historical agreements. But whether like it or not, the story is written by the people in their struggles. It is not written by governmental decisions and actions, especially when these are abrupt delusions and exhortations such as the recent US Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs responsible for energy matters, Mr Fannon. Mr Fannon, referring to our region, directly described it as an area that must be open - for business, we say - with respect for the rules of law so that projects can be developed. It also complemented the fact that the provocative measures which might prevent investment should be stopped. This position reveals precisely that for the United States and their political dominance is the profit of monopolies rather than the international law or international legality that the government constantly invokes. In the positions of parliamentarians and of the counter-population which were preceded by the Committee on Foreign and Defence Affairs, the calls for national unanimity were omitted. Our people are well aware of decoding the content of the concept of these words and now - let me say - 'it does not sting'. When you signed the last Greek-American agreement, you demanded that it be prepared and almost implemented before the signing of the SYRIZA government. National unity, too, asked for the country to come out of the economic crisis, namely to slaughter the people to enhance the profitability of business groups, just as it was. The poorer and richer. National confession also said SYRIZA was serving his ministers for commemorative photographs with fascist chrysayites, when they were surrounded by locusts on a remote island. The Communist Party of Greece once again emphasises that it is insidious and dangerous for the people to invoke the ideology of national unity from a bourgeois government like yours. You are looking directly at the resignation of the working class and other people's classes from the struggles against your choices and politics. It is your time-consuming practice to cultivate the myth that so many peacekeepers and shields for the country's sovereign rights against their question from Turkish urban order are the US, NATO and the European Union. And it comes first and best that NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg comes in the first 10 days of August, immediately after telephoneing with Mr Mitsotakis, reveal your misleading policy by stating that the situation in Greek-Turkish must be resolved in a spirit of coalition solidarity and in agreement with international law. What exactly did the Secretary of the 'global alliance' say? He unequivocally confirmed that the objective of natonic cohesion in the region towards other imperialist centres is the element that gives air to the sails of Turkish aggression and that is what you rabies sketch. It is objective that in Greek-Turkish relations the current situation brings very close to a warm episode. Such an event will set the negotiating table for the consideration of the Aegean. This prospect is already being served by the United States and NATO. The acceptance of a reduced influence in this composes. Also, it is a given that co-existence will give birth to conditions of new tensions, new warming episodes and perhaps even conflict. At the same time, the Greek Armed Forces find themselves on prolonged standby: Withdrawal of licences, increased safeguard measures, implementation of preparedness plans. However, it is clear as never before that the will of both the Greek people and the personnel of the Armed Forces to defend our territorial integrity and safeguard our sovereign rights is not enough. The only thing that really can shield them is the immediate withdrawal of any "cloud alliance" and that is not - cannot be - in your intentions. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Ladies and gentlemen, the historical events are a birth - nourishment of class struggle, namely the struggle between the oppressed and their oppressors. The JRC does not hide that it is fighting to overthrow the capitalist system in Greece. It does not plunder for supposedly painless national solutions. It doesn't mislead workers. For the people, the pie can't stay full and the dog can be full. The JRC reveals the goal of your policy, the core of your pursuits, and it is none other than preventing the real awakening of the peoples, preventing them from taking the case of defending territorial integrity and sovereign rights and managing the wealth that exists in our region. The Communist Party is firmly and continuously struggling to guarantee the well-being of the people. That is the message he sends to our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u101	Please prepare the Step sanitary for Foreign Minister Nikos Dendias to take the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you well know, two agreements on demarcation of maritime zones are to be voted on, the Multiple Living Delimitation Agreement with Italy and the Delimitation Agreement on an Exclusive Economic Zone with Egypt. As far as Italy is concerned, you know that the negotiations have reached a dead end that has been maintained for almost half a century. This was due to the non-acceptance of the Italian side to sign the new agreement, unless the practices of Italian fishermen were guaranteed in the international waters so far. And, of course, these practices would not have been allowed, when our country expanded - it expanded - its territorial waters from six to twelve nautical miles. We refused to recognise historical rights of Italian fishermen, we refused to introduce such a provision into the main subject of the agreement - this is the long-term position of Greek foreign policy, regardless of parties - and we finally chose - and here was the solution to the problem - to resolve the issue with a mission to the European Commission which now has sole responsibility for fisheries issues, with which we called for the amendment of the European Union's Fisheries Regulation. So we have recognised in Italy under a restricted right to actions, which we have so far been discussing exercises uncontrollably. Italy and indirectly the European Commission that accepted the mission confirmed our country's inalienable right to extend its territorial waters everywhere - I repeat, everywhere - both in the Ionian Sea and in Libya and in the Aegean Sea and in the south of Crete. With Egypt, as you well know, things were more difficult, although both countries were parties to the Convention on the Law of the Sea. They had to agree for the first time on a line delineation. There was no line to be followed by a previous deal. And, of course, there was the hypocritical fact that Egypt was receiving pressure from Turkey, which offered far greater sea space than Greece could. After fourteen rounds of negotiations over fifteen years during which the Turkloupian memorandum was signed, both sides, assessing their interests and excellent relations, chose a mutually beneficial and very close to the objectives of both. This is a fair result, as required by the delimitation of exclusive economic zones and continental articles of the Convention on the Law of the Sea. It is, and I thank the Parliamentary spokesman for the Change Movement, Mr Loverdos, who said so before, that there are two sovereign states willing to do so. Now I repeat what I have said to the committee that there is no method of finding this line which I hide to you and may be used by the government or someone else to show it to you or to reveal it to you in secret. It is the will of two sovereign states meeting on this line. I should like to take this opportunity to give some explanations of what has been said in this House during the debate. Why until the 28th meridian? I could, if I wanted to take advantage of creating a krone of controversy, say 'but that's where the previous government was negotiating, there was no question of you negotiating with Egypt beyond the 28th, it had been clear from the beginning'. However, this agreement, ladies and gentlemen, does not go until the 28th, it goes right until 27.59, so that there is not even the fault of recognizing the 28th of any other right. I would also like to say that what I said about a reduced effect on both agreements is not accurate. They are a theological debate, which is due to the fact that the influence on a very bizarre reason - I have to say that I have repeatedly asked a question not in Ethiopia, apart from Ethiopia, journalists in journalists about what influence it means, no one answered me - is a metaphysical or theological matter now. So the reduced influence on the Ionian Sea in the way it is measured is on the northern and southern islands, but it is not on Kefalonia, which has more than 100%. And I respond earlier to something that was said to a political leader by a political leader. Of course, there may be more than 100% influence if the distance is greater. And when we talk about the recognition of a reduced influence on a partial delimitation, where does it come from, ladies and gentlemen? Since we drafted the agreement did not take account of it, how is it possible for someone else to know that? What if at the moment, for example, we had gone with Italy to partial demarcation from the Lefkada and above, and we had given what you, the people here - to be precise - would have said "reduced influence" to the islands of my country, Irequently, Mathiraki and Othon, would this mean that we recognise a reduced influence on some islands? Since then in Kefalonia it was given about 110%. Therefore, the theological reference to the impairment of national rights by reason of this agreement is an incorrect reference. And I would not bother explaining this if - I say again - the original will of the legislator did not mean resolving any other disputes with any other country in the future. It has been observed here as a lack of agreement, the Agreement with Egypt - and indeed it has been contrary to the agreement with Italy - that there is no article on the appeal to The Hague. That's right, ladies and gentlemen. There isn't! And why isn't there? Because we do not want there to be a stable principle of Greek foreign policy, because we want to resolve the differences between the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean and not the difference in the Eastern Mediterranean, in which any third party, in consultation with the latter and would find it difficult for Greece to reject it. It's our choice. It's obviously not our omission. I would also like to tell you that in the matter of the extension of territorial waters we have weighted all views, even the views that say that this indirect way is perhaps recognised as a special status in the Aegean Sea. But you will also allow me to say that anyone who says this will do well to have access to the minutes of the meetings of the Greek and Turkish Prime Ministers, including the first between Constantine Karamanlis and Echevit, and to read out what they are writing about the Aegean and if, therefore, with our move, the Government, but also the Civic Opposition - and I did not notice KINAL having a different view - create any problem in national interests. Also - and I conclude with this in relation to comment - I would like to say something that I do not want my Deputy Minister, Mr Varvitsiotis, to comment on, because by defending himself he is always in a difficult position, like all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about sanctions, I would like to say that sanctions are not our sole choice. It is not something that is offered to us and is in our ability to take it or not to take it. This is an extremely painful process, which is a long attempt both for Cyprus and for Greek foreign policy. Please note, if you like, the phenomenon of sanctions which we have asked for - much less than we have requested - the Republic of Cyprus, which the European Union too has slowed down, has not yet imposed. And we are talking about sanctions against three people, while Greece's demand for preparation and not the imposition of sanctions - to be informed - will not be decided in Kimich the day, namely in Berlin, Thursday and Friday, where the Council is informal - those who know Europeans know this, I say this in order not to have any disillusionment of public opinion - and it is the right of future sanctions that we have asked to be 'crippling' - to use English expression - that is to say to the detriment of the entire Turkish economy. It is qualitatively different and therefore extremely difficult and requires a great and unified national effort. Do not create impressions that we were offered and we said: “No. It is a governmental option not to take it." To God! Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to finish the comment by saying that it is unfair to refer to an irregularity historically of Greek foreign policy. And I'm talking about all parties. There was a great deal of effort. There were bad times. I have said that the non-agreement with Libya, when our area difference was less than 4%, was a wrong decision, because if it had been signed then, many of the problems that followed would have been avoided. Also, my dear Mr Katrugale, I think it was a mistake that you did not come up with, because then you would have ended up before the 'Turkish' and therefore we would not have the burden of Turkey which you are calling for today. But all this - I want to be honest - is ex post predictions. It's much easier after twenty and thirty years to have a clean eye for the past. The question here is essential is to have a clear vision of the future. What I would not like to answer is the constant phrase - I think that fits the Left, I remember it at the university, and I was constantly told: 'There is no strategy. You have no strategy." It is so general that it is actually quite difficult to answer. But, ladies and gentlemen, why does the country not have a strategy? And I am not simply speaking on behalf of the Mitsotakis Government, because the strategy implemented by the Mitsotakis Government is not just a strategy of the Mitsotakis Government. It's not just a strategy of Prime Minister Mitsotakis. It is not just a strategy of this Minister or the specific political leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's the national strategy. Why is there no strategy? The strategy is clear and the agreements currently being discussed fall within this general framework. You're wrong with us, ladies and gentlemen. You are wrongful to the government, you are wronging the country, but you are also wronged by those who claim that there is no strategy. The country has a clear strategy. The defensive agreement we signed last autumn - I had the honour of signing it again - with the United States is also a station on this national strategy. Do you want me to name you the axes quickly? We are talking about active participation in the European strategy, active participation in NATO, active participation in the United Nations and in international organisations. Isn't that our agreed strategy? To defend the European acquis - both legal and geographical - is not our common strategy? Are the agreements delimiting our maritime zones with the neighbouring Mediterranean countries not our strategy since 1974 and imminently, even before UNCLOS? I must inform you that, following a directive by the Prime Minister, I contacted the Prime Minister of Albania yesterday, Mr Rama, to inform him of the Prime Minister's announcement today, and we also agreed with the Albanian Prime Minister that we would resume our talks immediately after the extension of our territorial waters to the Ionian Seas to resolve the issue of our maritime zones and Albania. Is it or isn't this our national strategy? Is the gradual expansion of our territorial waters or is it not our national strategy? Is the peaceful resolution of our differences with all countries or is it not our national strategy? Is the resurgence of Turkey's arbitraryness and infringibility or is it not our national strategy? That this presupposes creating the Mediterranean and beyond the Mediterranean, a front for understanding and friendship with the unified states in the region, is it or is it not our national strategy? This, of course, means reintroducing a broad strategic horizon in the Balkans, but also towards the Gulf, which the economic crisis to a certain extent has prevented us from doing. But this is our national strategy and it is the strategy that the country has been following for all these years. I sincerely grieve when the leader of the neighbouring country is present as a brilliant politician, who has strategic planning beyond the horizon...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u103	Not from us!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u104	No, no, I'm not telling you! Not at all. I said it was told in the Chamber. On the other hand, Greek politics appears to be a mere and arbitrary policy. That's unfair. It's completely unfair. Greek politics, with its mistakes, with its failures, with its delays, has achieved triumphs! These triumphs have rightly been mentioned and the entry into the common system, EMU and the entry of Cyprus into the European Union. It's a huge triumph. The very important agreements we are debating today are also part of this set of intelligent strategy. On the other hand, we have a Turkey - I will not say isolated, but I think that a mere observation shows that Turkey does not have too many friends in the region, it is quite obvious - which is illegal, escalating and provoking, despite the encouragement of neighbours and allies, and insists as a political weapon not to create understanding but to create concrete power. And we see an attempt to implement expansion plans at the expense of neighbours and allies. We are observing the wording of neo-Ottoman ideologies, endless expansion and control of the Mediterranean. A well-known Greek philosopher, modern, when I met him, told me that Turkey is making the big move backwards. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to note the notion of the name of their research vessels. Watch out for their research ships and not their warships! We have the "Fatich" conqueror, "Kanoni" Suleiman the Great-English who intended to take over Europe, "Barbaros" the archbishop-arch of the Turkish fleet, "Oruc Reis" who was another pirate Admiral, "Javuz" Selim the first, also known for his conquests. Any scientist's name, maybe? Oh, no! What does Turkey broadcast when these names allegedly investigate for scientific purposes? And we note that it continues to undermine the stability of the entire region with clear and completely condemnable violations of international law and, indeed, at the expense of two Member States of the European Union, of us and of Cyprus. But we do not just have that prerogative. Libya, Syria, Iraq have become targets of Turkish invasion. I would like to make something clear, however, and it is crucial that I tell the National Representation ahead of the Berlin Council tomorrow. Perseverance in reality does not create fairness. It is obvious that the risk in the Eastern Mediterranean exceeds the limit of bilateral disputes. It is about the European Union, it is about NATO, it is about the United Nations. By the way, I would like you to know that tomorrow morning I will meet Secretary-General Stoltenberg in Berlin. It concerns the European Union's sovereign rights and concerns the European Union's energy security. It concerns the security of the Mediterranean. It is about human rights. It is also about the monuments of humanity, their protection and their character. It is about the credibility of the European Union. That is why they do not have double standards and double standards, because the European Union must continue to defend itself in all directions - and its external relations, therefore, as it does within it - which makes it the most attractive part of the world today, which makes it the most ambitious and hospitable project in the history of humanity: the absolute respect for the rule of law, respect for the rules of international law and respect for good neighbourly relations between states. But, ladies and gentlemen, the European acquis does not exist properly, as I was pleased to say yesterday to the German Minister. He needs a defense. It needs a ruthless defence against the powers of authoritarianism, illegality, regression and arrogance. It needs defence, whether the challenge comes from Belarus or comes from Turkey. And Europe must be ready and willing to defend its borders, sea and land, because that is equal to being ready to defend its ideology, legal ideology and peace ideology. It must be ready to defend its ideas with at least as much strength as it supports its products, defend human rights, peaceful conflict resolution, tolerance, understanding, moderateness. And I would like to be clear to everyone, within and outside the hall. Without majorities, which do not characterize Greece, without arrogantness, which does not characterise Greece, without threats, which we do not use in Greece, I would like to say that we will defend our sovereignty and our sovereign rights in the name of the law. These are the European borders, the sovereignty and the sovereign rights of Europe. It is the European idea at the end of the day. And that's why we don't have a choice. Many of us are dialogue. I want to be clear about this - it was the Prime Minister before and I was pleased that on this basis a consensus was created in the Chamber - that Greece is and always remains ready for dialogue. After all, in 2016 the dialogue was interrupted by Turkey, not by Greece. But dialogue is not under threat. Dialogue is not meant under challenges, not only for Greece, but for any state that respects itself and the rape of law cannot be a basis for dialogue. The necessary element for dialogue is a reliable interlocutor and a clear frame of reference. Here too, the clear reference framework is the rules of international law. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude that the agreements which are being discussed today are elements here and there in addition to strengthening the national arsenal. They were, as you all know, a major national objective for decades. This objective has been achieved. They lead, of course, to the irrational wrath of the Oriental neighbor. As I have said to the committee, however, at the difficult times when Turkish violation of human rights creates for the country, the essential element of our national arsenal is our uninterrupted national unity. It will bring about, I am sure, the new law on Turkish hybrids. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, too, Mr. Minister. Please take care of the Step in order for SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative Mariliza Xinoyannakopoulos to speak. I would like to say that all the parliamentary representatives and between two parliamentary representatives on a regular basis, a Member of Parliament will also be inserted in order to proceed with the list accordingly. Here, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President. Since it has preceded, ladies and gentlemen, an exhaustive debate, and indeed at the highest level, the political leaders, I will try to be very brief, focusing on some points which the honourable Minister has put forward, the modestness of which we all recognize, of course, the good intentions. But I cannot help but comment on some of the issues that he has raised now. First of all we are talking - and the Prime Minister and the Minister spoke - about national unity. He was also surprised to know why we are so persistently talking about a national strategy. Minister, in order for there to be national consensus there must be three factors: there must be information and dialogue. There must be national understanding, which leads to a substantial national strategy, which is not just to set certain objectives, but to have a start, a middle and a end, to actually have a long-term target and much more to be able to really reflect the needs of a period. And, of course, the third is that there should be the absolute truth and information of the Greek people. So when we talk about a national strategy, we are not just talking about individual actions and initiatives. We are talking about a coordinated approach to our foreign policy, in terms of our alliances, a multi-dimensional foreign policy, in terms of our attitude within the European Union. And because you have expressed your surprise here, because we are so insisting on the question of sanctions, and even if we are in a way of not interpreting what Mr Varvitsiotis has said correctly, we should be clear: from the very first time we have told you - and unfortunately we have been verified many times - that the issues relating to the relationship with Turkey should also be raised in their European dimension. In other words, there had to be a double approach over the past few months. And there was a denial from the government. Mr Varvitsiotis had said from this point of view - and we were all present - that it is not our choice to call on the sanctions - and at the same time we were talking about a positive agenda for a new Euro-Turkish relationship, which really has to be in a European context, because we know very well that the previous European agreements with Turkey, with Turkey itself, are now inactive, which really creates this duplex of sanctions and threats of sanctions on the one hand and, on the other, there is a prospect that is in the interest of the problems it faces - especially in economics - Turkey at this time. So that's the framework. We have also heard the Prime Minister say beforehand: 'Why are you protesting? We've got all the allies with us. They're making statements. We heard Mrs Merkel's statement when she met with Mr McCrone." Minister, you know - and you know that very well from your experience and of course from the constant effort you are making, which we have no reason to question - that is not the point of statement. The issue is in the European Councils and in the Councils of Foreign Policy Ministers what is ultimately reflected in decisions. And what we have raised as a matter is not just to take another good statement - which, unfortunately, also in the way that has been expressed by Germany in recent years, is not even equal distances - but, above all, to have a corresponding record in the text of decisions, which also deplores the symptoms and behaviour of Turkey's infractions and, of course, raises the question of sanctions as a result of this behaviour. As regards the multi-dimensional foreign policy, and indeed the need for mobility and energy, we welcome you in this regard, as well as in the logic of the advance compromises in diplomacy. That was our concept in the first place. However, the inertia, unfortunately, also the constant attack, and even with unadulterated phrases of moderation, and all that we had heard in the past period, was unfortunately on your side. Here you see the Civic Opposition today and you heard it by our President, Alexis Tsipras, with how much responsibility we have placed on all issues without qualification, saying that the subject of the agreement with Italy is a very positive step. We invited you, at the very first moment, from this Step by Alexis Tsipras, when you announced the agreement with Italy to extend the gyalitis zone. In these things we are here, when there is a positive step, and we should put our backs on and identify them. And because Mrs Bakoyannis, with her great experience, wondered: 'But, well, could the equine zone have been extended without becoming the EOZ?' Isn't that better? Here, then, we are reversing this argument and we say that even now there is this partial agreement with Egypt, so now is the time, with your own thinking, to progress courageously and to set the perspective for the corresponding expansion of the gyalitis zone south and west of Crete. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President, I'm closing. I would therefore like to conclude by saying that we are going to the'residents', which Alexis Tsipras fully expressed, because it is a political position of responsibility. But, Minister, you got us a little confused in your position. You actually told us that there was no methodology in your decision, that there is no question of island influence, that there are no baselines, that there is simply the result. I cannot accept, of course, that you negotiated without having a basic method. What I understand from your statement is that you do not want to be in this direction. And much more you don't want to accept what we say is that we recognize - if you like - the importance of the pervasion of the Turklibi pact that you achieve. We can accept the partial agreement, and as Alexis Tsipras and we have moved in this direction, but not to tell us that there is no question because it is 27.5 and not 28 of the summer, or to tell us that there was no method and there is no question how it will be interpreted in the future. Because I have to tell you quite simply this: first of all, we do not want to be misinterpreted on the part of Turkey, but this wants a coordinated national policy. As will also be done if in future - and we do not want to believe it - there is an agreement between Turkey and Egypt which will simply need information and consultation, beyond 28 November? So I would say that right here your position strengthens our request. And I close by saying - and I say this very well at a time when we are responsible for the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance is a responsible patriotic force and we have proved it today in the way we are placed - not to tell us that there is no question of methodology and experience, but of becoming a board of Heads of Political Party and if there are issues that you cannot put them in public, there is the place that must be set in detail, both the method and the outcomes, and how in the future it safeguards or risks we must avoid. Because above all through the national agreement on the strategy, there can be unity and above all national results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u108	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to take the floor again, and I understand that this is a difficult process and a long time, but there are issues that need to be in the Minutes, which is why I am growing up again. Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, please very much. I do not want to question that. I'm telling you, I appreciate your style and your morality and your tone absolutely, but it's not my asset to have his freedom of choice. The answer of the Government, the reply of the legislature, which is please recorded in the minutes, is that there is no method. There is no mathematical method assigned to this line. It is the meeting of the will of two sovereign states. Please do not question that. You don't want to cause damage to the place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u110	Minister, let me ask you a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u111	Please, everything is allowed. Ask if the President will allow it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u112	Here, Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u113	I'm allowed by the Minister. So, to understand exactly what you are saying, you are confirming the criticism we have made that the rule of average and equal distance has not been applied.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u114	Excuse me. No, we do not confirm the criticism you have made, because you have actually tried to get the government to accept some vague principle of proportionality, which is not the case. I repeat, and here I have the certainty of the authority of advice, which we have accepted during the procedure that states are absolutely entitled to dominate their differences in maritime areas with no obligation to submit, explain or create mathematical calculations or other calculations for explaining the result. So the Hellenic Republic and Egypt did so. The fact that it is partial delimitation does not allow - and I told you with the example of the Ionian Sea - nor any conclusion regarding influence or anything else. If you wanted to see something that strengthens the Greek side's ability to say that then 45-55 could then be reversed and be 55-45, see how few coasts are opposed to Europeans. Because what was said earlier about the omission of Rhodes is also an error. Rhodes was taken on this, not only to be the whole coastline for the future of the Kastelorizo complex. And 27,59, which was treated as light, is of enormous importance. Because 28 is the result of a Turkish land that Greece has no reason to recognise its existence and to stop in 28, and that is why it has chosen to dominately, along with Egypt, also dominately, to stop at 27,59. I do not claim to be more nationalistic of any other or more patriotism and I am sure that we are all moving from the most noble motives. I would like to ask you not to direct the debate in an attempt to find detailed explanations of an agreement that would have been critical if it were to include them. I can assure you that the last party to this agreement has also been examined and analysed in detail. So that's what it's like.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u115	Here you go, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, allow me another question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Catrugale, no. They are the parliamentary representatives, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, from whom the Minister's reply came.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u118	I need a clarification. Listen, I'm not asking about...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u119	Let us ask a question, Mr President, Mr Katrugalos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u120	However, ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u121	My question is a continuation of the previous one. If no method has been used to demarcate this agreement, then in negotiations with Turkey you intend to proceed without a method?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u122	Wait a minute. Do you want to say something, Mrs. Xenogiannakopoulou? And then the Minister will close this intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u123	Mr Minister, first of all you know that I appreciate you and I have never wanted to raise the debate in any way. I must say, however, that your position has caused us in the sense that you know that the committee has put us, not only we, but also most parties, the need to clarify the method, the logic, in the sense that we have known until now that there has been the concept of the full influence of the islands, what Alexis Tsipras, the famous 'Molyviatis' and the middle line. We are not here to prejudge and trial for intent. What we are saying is 'explain us'. Also, the difficulty you may have in saying a few things strengthens the need for the Council of Civil Liberties, because we are living here in an environment which is extremely difficult and geopolitically, which is becoming more and more dangerous and difficult. So, then, we cannot, at the moment, lightly say: 'There was no method. There were no principles of negotiation, while there were in the previous rounds, as you know very well, and to some extent things had moved forward. And what we are saying is a reasonable question. Our rapporteur, Mr Katrugalos, has said so. If there is no method, that is what concerns us, because it means how we move on to other issues. If there is a method that is not clear and that is an issue, because we do not know what will affect the future. Totally well-qualified we put them. I don't want to go on talking anymore. But if you want, the debate we are having and the dialogue strengthens the logic that while we consider it positive for the embodiment of the Turkish pact, we have strong reservations and questions to say, in order not to trial you for intentions, which lead us not to be able to vote for and stand in the position of'residents' until we are summoned to a Council of Political Heads of State, to understand and contribute to an up-to-date national strategy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u124	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u125	I will not extend to 'the present'. It was said by the Prime Minister. You will allow me to tell you that, although in Italy and Egypt we have approached things the same way that the country has approached them for half a century, we would simply not have ended up anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u126	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u127	For example, to take Italy's painlessness. It has not been observed that fishing rights are part of the European framework and therefore there has been no reason to be in the same agreement, which was rightly rejected by the Greek side for many years, but without noticing what I am saying to you. He refused to enter into the agreement, which should not be in this agreement, because it concerned the European legal framework and not the bilateral relationship with Italy. And that for the first time has been observed now. I am not impressed by what you say, that we have always gone by a method, and now we are going by a different method. If we went the same way that we always went, we'd end up with the same result that we've always achieved in not having a deal. The fact that there is agreement is due to the fact that we have gone differently. I can assure you that the different way does not undermine the national interest. That is why I repeat and will not stop repeating the non-methods. From there on, I have repeatedly said and I am at the disposal of any party and colleagues for any explanations I know and can provide. To God, I don't handle issues of my family and the Mitsotakis government and the Prime Minister have no ownership perception of the state. The mandate I have and I am doing is explaining to the parties and doing so constantly and consistently and consistently and is something that is my duty. As far as - and I conclude with that - Mr Katrugalos' question, Mr President, the answer is that we are, first of all, far from starting any negotiation with Turkey. That is the first clear. But it depends on the context in which Turkey, whenever it wishes to appear before us, she will propose. We will propose the framework of International Law and the Law of the Sea with what this contains. This is the framework with which we will move to speak with Turkey. If Turkey has something different to tell us, we will hear it. But if it is outside the framework of international law and the Law of the Sea, I fear that this negotiation will not be long-term.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Konstantinos Hetas has the floor from the Greek Solution for seven minutes. We have said that between two parliamentary representatives a fellow Member will also be inserted in order to proceed with the list. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, thank you very much. There has been a lot of talk today. And really, after the very intense and burdensome speech of the President of the Greek Solution - because I said this morning and I will repeat it and now that he has devoted a very large part of his political life to what is called EEZ and I think that he has said very interesting things - a little left to comment now. It's almost nighttime. I would like to make a comment on what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said. I will, however, stay on the side of the sanctions. I'll start with this. The question of sanctions for Turkey has been raised by the Minister that we do not have it as a weapon in our patronage. In other words, we should not have the illusion of the rest of us who are invoking and often say 'why do we not proceed to sanctions against Turkey with all that it does?' So the Minister said that we do not have it in front of us as a measure, and we do not use it. He just didn't offer us that choice, he said features. I would therefore like to say to the Minister and to the Foreign Ministers who are here today and to the Government of New Democracy that that is exactly what this is about. That's exactly where we focus and say we're on our own. Because no one is going to impose sanctions on the Turks. As Turkey suffocates, as the former Foreign Minister, Mrs Bakoyannis, said some time ago, who said that a dangerous situation, Turkey suffocation and is about to erupt, etc., is not going to hurt her. So Turkey is suffocating, gentlemen of the New Democracy, but Turkey is all fond of it, all of us who are trying to take measures or countermeasures or sanctions against Turkey. I'm going to go on a little bit with the objection of unconstitutionality. We were sure, when we decided as a parliamentary group to proceed with this procedure, that no party would vote in favour of it. Let's not be fooled. To be honest with each other. We were sure of the parties' attitude. You rejected the objection of unconstitutionality. But I just want you to think about this, that Greek citizens will not reject this objection of unconstitutionality and when they see and really learn what this agreement includes and see it applied to everyday life, then know that you will be accountable to the Greek people. Because today with what you achieve and vote in the Greek Parliament, the National Delegation is the new 'Prespes'. What SYRIZA did with the Prespes, you guys succeed today with this deal. And I said about the Prespes, which have been worn today and very much remembered and debated. But you should know that you rejected the objection of unconstitutionality, but the Greek people will not reject it. Two - three things in what the Prime Minister Mitsotakis mentioned. He has given congratulations to the ministers. We did not say that people did not work, but we really can hardly accept congratulations on the outcome of this work. He said that the islands with this agreement - and the New Democracy wing - are gaining EEZ. And they all applauded. Alas, if they don't have the Greek islands AOZ! The point is that they get a reduced EEZ, and that's where we're shouting. And, of course, he played too many times today and I want us to stay a little in The Hague, a solution, which was proposed some time ago as an unobtrusive solution, as the last solution, as 'better not to get into trouble there'. We are vertically opposed to the case of The Hague. Now The Hague, as the whole scene goes on, the days, the months, the weeks, the negotiations come, the various agreements come, the only solution seems to you all to be the only one. Mrs Bakoyannis suggested it. He said it was the only way to go to The Hague. Mr Mitsotakis said that it is not decent for the Greek people, but we slowly took the risk and proposed it. And, of course, the Greek people will sometime swallow it. Listen a little, so we don't fool around. What's The Hague? The Hague is a trap that Turkey is setting up. That's The Hague. It is a trap set by Turkey and with which they will be put to crisis - there they will be put to judgment - Greek sovereign rights, while Greece does not claim anything from Turkey. The Turks are indicted. We don't claim anything! And yet, we're going to sit in The Hague. The Hague is therefore the Trojan horse, so that Turkey can impose its own "I want" on the Aegean and Mediterranean. It is like saying that we have a fortune of our own - an example that our President has mentioned many times - is in our name and we are going to discuss whether it is ours or not! I mean, what's going on is incredible! What can we ask for in The Hague? What are we going to tell The Hague, and under what conditions do we go to talk to The Hague? What if the Aegean is Greek? So, that's where we're gonna end up? Are we going to talk if the Aegean is Greek, if the islands are Greek, if according to International Law, which you have referred to today too many times to EOZ, is Greece entitled to drill if Greece is entitled to do mining and research in its subsea area? Is that what we're going to talk about in The Hague? We are vertically opposed and do not agree with such a choice at all. And I close with a piece of the agreement, which was mentioned in the morning, and the President of the Greek Solution made a special mention and analysis, the part of the Herodotus basin. Because that's what people have to hear and understand what they're signing here today. Only one third of the Herodotus basin, which corresponds to us under International Law - which, as we have said, has been granted by 75% to the Egyptians - is estimated to be about three hundred and four hundred billion dollars, not according to the Greek Solution but according to the American Geological Research Centre. Three hundred and four hundred billion dollars! The ZOR, which "ENI" operates on behalf of the Egyptians, is the largest look of the Mediterranean and the world's twenty-nine, with the total value of appraising around 200 billion, while one third of Herodotus' Launch hides within four hundred billion dollars. This is what the state has known since 2012. But no one did anything. He was aware of them by the Greek state since 2012, when the President of the Greek Solution said them, they were coming out to New Democracy's great executives and they called him a trader of hope. Velopoulos talked about everything, based on scientific evidence, and based on studies by Greek and foreign scientists. Unfortunately - and I close - the agreements with Italy and Egypt are nationally detrimental, since they legally mortgage the independent economic zone of all the islands and of course of Kastelorizo, which is the provocative desire of the Turks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u130	I will now invite the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, to take the floor for six minutes. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u131	Mr President, following the culmination of the debate on the prototypes and abbreviations of the political leaders, our own intervention is a little limited. However, a number of issues have been raised in the course of dialogue these two days - Monday in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, and today in plenary - there have been issues that will be useful to comment on each of them. I am one of those who on Monday I talked about a lack of strategy and said that because many ask: "Tell us what is strategic, to see if there is a lack or adequacy?" I said that strategy is to know what your next step is. At least that's it. The former New Democracy Minister on Monday said that our strategy is to reach bilateral agreements with all the states in the region, from Albania and proceeded. When he arrived in Turkey, he said 'Turkey is another matter'. The problem of Greek foreign policy is Turkey, it is not to reach a good agreement with Italy. This does not require a national strategy. A national strategy is needed towards Turkey, which is the main problem in our foreign policy. It's not the only thing, of course, but it's the basic one. I said, however, that I should like to bring it back to today's debate, because the Foreign Minister has also spoken about it today, and I would like to bring it to the right dimension. Minister, I accepted that Greece at the moment, at the stage of this crisis in Greek-Turkish relations, is trying to turn them into Euro-Turkish relations and the crisis. Greece has a diplomatic presence here. He's over. The statements from the United States are also very positive. On the other hand, Turkey has been smart for sixteen days now, as we say - an area of our sovereign rights. We say: 'No, they are our sovereign rights here where you are.' But they are present in the sixteenth day. The measurement of the success of our diplomatic extrovert and our policy in this field is to lead Turkey to folding. Was it driven? It wasn't driven. At the end of this period, at the end of the Turkish NAVTEX period, an assessment should be made. We've lived through how they're "rooting" areas. We have not accepted the 'grassing', but we have a great deal of experience from their own strategy and their ultimate goal. We say: Our strategy is specific. How is that specific? How's it manifested? What does it include and what does it not involve? I am very sorry, but the lack of strategy is obvious, as is also evident at the moment, after so many days, sixteen days of violation of our sovereign rights, after these sixteen days it is clear that the government is refusing to do something. But refusing to do something that the circumstances require, it contributes in its way to accept fait accompli. We reiterate that there is no strategy and we stress the lack of agreement between the political parties. The briefing is not consensual. Update is good as an update. Nothing more. I would like to add again, in plenary, that it is wrong to overestimate Turkey. Greece is a country that is moving, over the decades that I remember our foreign policy, in the context of international legitimacy. Our country, in relation to the law of the sea, has done everything. Our country has never violated Turkey's borders, it has never caused Turkey. It is moving under international law. Attacking actions against Turkey has not been taken. The protection of the Muslim minority is very serious and when a right of our fellow citizens is violated there, many parties are rushing to defend our fellow citizens. On the contrary, the Christian minority in Istanbul has disappeared. We have never broken a decision of the European Union. They are written in their old shoes all and especially sanctions policies. It is not a phrase of a Government representative what Mr Petsas said will "bite" the sanctions of the European Union against Turkey. I'm sorry, we have a recent experience. It is a phrase which shows that we do not have in mind exactly what this is all about. All that we have not done, Mr President, has been done by Turkey. All of it! From the lack of respect for international law, from the violation of borders - recently, Evros - from the contempt of European Union decisions and sanctions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Furthermore, the recruitment of the Greek Egyptian agreement, I said on Monday from Turkey, was proof that they have many problems of understanding the environment. The news agency "Anadolu" adopts Kozia's views and Cavusoglu goes right across the street. One says Greece gave it all. The other says Egypt gave it all away. The problem of these dilemmas was solved by Erdogan with the two NAVTEX. We must not overestimate this country and we must not underestimate the fact that the economic crisis that is going through is beyond what we read in the financial papers. It is a very serious economic crisis, which may turn this country into a beader country. It is therefore wrong to talk about them as if it were a country that triumphs at all levels. Let the famous Davutoglou politicians, when they were enlisted on the side of Erdogan, many years ago for sovereignty in the Muslim world - I said it and Monday, I have no time to develop it - have "run away". Because Turkey's only ally in the Arab world is the small Qatar and as I said on Monday, it is not an advantage for Iran to support you in its international relations. We said - I repeat - that Mrs Gennimata said that if she had not intervened in the Turklibi pact, we would not vote for a partial agreement. We support it, because it's an answer. But I don't understand anything. I said it on Monday and today my criticism has been updated. If he left out only that it's east of 28th, it'd be solitary of Kastelorizo. Luckily, that didn't happen. I said it on Monday. Fortunately a small piece has been left to the west to settle in the second round of a next deal. If it had become what the Chief of Police Representation said, it would have been excluded from Kastelorizo and the Hellenic Republic would have said that she no longer cares. It happened exactly the opposite. We've noticed it from the first moment. That's why we chose the attitude, despite all the criticism...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u132	Finish, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u133	I respond to two more problems that have been raised here. In fact, I was also asked to speak on one of them. Mr President, this is what I am ending. Thank you for giving me some more time. First of all, I was asked by the Greek rapporteur, if there was partial influence. Article 57 of the Agreement on the Law of the Sea on the EEZ and Article 76 on the continental shelf makes it clear, of course: up to two hundred nautical miles of EEZ and up to thirty-five nautical miles of shelf. Obviously, if the question were whether the law allowed it or did not allow it. He's allowing it. The question is whether it is good to accept something less than you are entitled to or not. I have been in love with the law. That's what I'm answering. Finally, Mr Katrugale, you are right to remember, because you were a Foreign Minister after a while, then Deputy, my position for the extension of our twelve-mile sovereignty to the Ionian Sea alone. However, the announcement I had made as a responsible and then outside my party was: "The former Foreign Minister, Nikos Kotzias, announced today the extension to the twelve nautical miles of our territorial waters in the Ionian Sea. Big words and majesty. If they leave, they do not count.’ I burned down the sort of flare - not to say demagogic - of the Minister on the day he was leaving and handing over to Mr Tsipras, not to you. You, you stayed undercover and became Minister later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u134	And that's it, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u135	That is what I criticised. I think, because it has a clue and the argument 'after you're doing it here, you don't do it elsewhere, so you leave the Aegean,' I think the Prime Minister said today 'that's the beginning', and you said it's a policy that starts from here to expand. The first thing anyone would think about you is when you would do it in Crete, in the south of Crete. That's what it wants to do with work, of course. It's not things that happen from one day to the next. Thus, we listen positively to the twelve miles in the Ionian. Otherwise, a policy that has not continued to pose political problems at international level if it focuses only on a geographical area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u136	Please, get the Step ready. Then there is the floor for the Deputy Minister, Mr Varvitsiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after what has already emerged, I think it is left to anyone who is following this debate - and not only Greeks who are following this debate, but are our eastern neighbours, who are very interested in standing on the arguments, which are unsettled by this Step - what is being wondered about: Does the country have a national strategy? And this national strategy serves it consistently and ultimately serves it in the way in which the Greek people give us the mandate to serve it? I am afraid that, in particular, with the SYRIZA's attitude, this front seems to have been broken. Because here all we are doing is to highlight arguments on the other side about how well we do not do them and how much our decisions run counter to the country's strategic interests. I also wonder about a party's history deficit, which has managed for about five years the country's fates and which has chosen to walk to a scorched party, which has been questioning until that time. Who was the stalker? It was the full accession of the European acquis, which took place after all that we lived in the summer of 2015, the full notion that the country's strategic interests are and are served within NATO, which your own government, the previous one, invited to monitor our eastern borders in the context of the management of the refugee issue. Let's not forget. The only naval operation that has taken place in the country since the country entered the Naples alliance was at the invitation of the SYRIZA government. Let us not forget the strategic relationship and the deepening of the strategic relationship with the United States, which has been very much advertised. In fact, there was a Minister of National Defence, who went to the United States and said: Choose, which island you would like in the Aegean and install bases, which to some point thought Mr Kotzias was the best foreign minister ever. I'm talking about your co-pilot at the time. And, of course, it is also the relationship that we should go to the issue of multilateral cooperation and bilateral cooperation in the Mediterranean. You have cultivated far beyond the strategic relationship with Israel. And you did well. You also put Cyprus in the game of these tripartite, quadrums. And you did well. You tried with government Sisi to develop very serious relationships to come to an integration of energy, but also of strategic planning. You did well. And we get the thread. We overlook what you left on the bells, for example, the fact that Libya did not exist on your radar. This is a fact. There was no SYRIZA government radar for four and a half years. We have not been able to obtain these relations with Libya to prevent Turkey's apparent change of attitude, which - let us not forget - is what is happening. The intensity with which Turkey wants to implement its review policy in the Mediterranean since it starts? Basically, it starts in the summer of 2016, when President Erdogan changes line. It is not a country that now looks forward to its European orientation. It is a country that implements policies and internally extremely against the acquis communautaire, not to say something heavier. It also applies a policy of pressure to their neighbours and especially to Greece, immediately after granting asylum to the eight asylum-seekers and for whom Erdogan claims that Mr Tsipras had assured him that he would return them, which I do not believe the Greek Prime Minister has done. And this relationship is changing and exacerbating, along with Turkey's internal economic crises, along with the dreadful syndrome that Mr Erdogan's party now holds, but also the Erdogan system, which constantly raises tons both internally and externally, trying to cultivate a strong majority internally. We need to know what the environment is in which we move. Foreign policy is not static. It's not something you decide to do and you say, "I'll go in this direction" and it saves and you'll do well in that direction. It's influenced by all the other players. And when they change their policy, increase their intensity, cause and create facts, you have to answer. What the Greek Parliament should have done today should not have been a picture of grumbling and flattering, but it should have been that we have been standing firm on the axes we have been supporting for years and of course are serving the national interest. What is the national interest? Turkey should come to the dialogue table with respect for international law. Does anyone doubt that sharing in the Eastern Mediterranean should be done under the rule of law and not under the rules of military involvement? Does anyone have any doubts about that? Has the agreement been made with Egypt on the basis of acceptable legal rules? You got it. Is it an agreement that shows that Greece is a good-faithed interlocutor while Turkey is constantly accused of being an unreliable interlocutor and others say one another, but does it say the other? This is the feeling the Turks convey to all their interlocutors. Do you answer that? Answer me. Does it respond to this and not with convictions from the international factor or European councils about the void of the memorandum between Turkey and Libya? Answer me. Then why don't we have a united voice? Because we once again create the possibility for all Turkish media to send statements from the Chief of Police and to say: 'Here we go, the Greeks are not going well'. This happened a few weeks ago when the entire Turkish press was overwhelmed by the statements made by Mr Tsipras who said that we are giving Turkey arguments following the drafting of the memorandum on the delimitation of the EEZ with Egypt. Are we serving any national interests with this attitude? I think not. And I think that if you wish - and the Minister said so - that we have a little overlooked the European roundabout. We therefore believe that it is very easy in Europe to reach an agreement between the twenty-seven to impose sanctions on Turkey and only our own uncertainty has delayed them. Because, quite rightly I told you, at a specific stage, Greece was present in Cyprus for the imposition of sanctions for the infringements suffered by the Cypriot EEZ by the illegal drilling in Turkey, but we did not ask for sanctions. What are we looking for today? Today we are asking the European Commission to present - and that is what we hope it will do tomorrow - a net of sanctions against Turkey between other options. And we have caused a European Council for the end of September, where the only issue is not a debate on the future with Turkey. Do you want us to have this debate on our own, to challenge this debate on our own, so that we can reach what conclusion? In that Turkey should not be a candidate country - a member of the European Union. Is it something that serves our strategic interest, Turkey's removal from the European institutions and only the acquisition of a privileged economic relationship with the European Union? Is it something that serves the strategic interests of Greece? What I have heard from so many speakers say: 'Yes, for Europe to review its relations with Turkey', what does it mean? We need to be a little more careful. That's right, Mr. Loverdus said so. We also need to see the next step, not just today. The next step is not to make Turkey a country that will enjoy economic benefits from a privileged relationship with Europe, which the financial relationship with Europe has so far won - let us not laugh, it is one of the most important trading partners - but to lose any political relationship with it. It is very important, too, within Europe, because we have heard that we do not have a European strategy, that we also talk to those who disagree. In the past, we were not talking to the Italians because Mr. Salvini participated in the government and we didn't like the photo with Mr. Salvini. In the past, we talked to the Austrians because they denounced Mitsotakis as being Kurt's companion and therefore far-right. And today Austria is the country that is represented in Greece in the most fervent way and in the crisis in Evros and in Evros - Turkish. We didn't talk to a number of countries because we didn't like the photograph of her leader, because she didn't fit in our audience and account. That is not the case with foreign policy, and it is certainly not foreign policy, by saying that you have all the potential here. I will tell you, because I have heard Mr Tsipras say about the MED -7, that next week, on 10 September, the Prime Minister will be in the MED -7. You know who made the preparation of this European South Leaders' Summit. Greece! And we would normally have the ministers here, but we did not have them because of COVID and they did so by teleconferencing. And if you see what is being prepared, it has dropped too much work to get the framework of the debate on Greek interests well established. You cannot say, however, that this government has stopped, that it is inactive, that it is not making moves, that it is not taking initiatives, that it does not create alliances and that it is not creating a feminine one on which the other side must respond. And the answer we are causing is a response to arguments and not a defence response. The attitude you have chosen, the 'present', in ratifying the agreement on partial editing of the EEZ with Egypt, which we must recognise is a success of the government and of the Foreign Minister personally, I think it is a stand that shows a depth of strategy in your counter-population and it is wrong that your internal party step should be taken in front of national issues. What Europe and Ankara expect to hear today from the Greek Parliament is a 'yes' bronze in this agreement, a 'yes' bronze in international law, a 'yes' bronze in the defence of our national interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u138	Please prepare the Step and call Mrs. Olga Kefaliannis to speak for seven minutes. Here you go, Mrs. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going through a very critical period with multiple and heterogeneous challenges, with the crisis in Greek-Turkish relations reaching marginal levels, with Turkey seeking, today, an all-material negotiation on the Aegean without respect for international rules and questioning the foundations of coexistence in the wider region, the Lausanne Treaty, effectively questioning all the conventions governing international legality. Turkey is attempting to become a ruler in the Eastern Mediterranean by creating crises and endeavoring to do so. On this basis, Turkey signed the illegal Turkish Turkish memorandum with the Government of Tripoli and thus works on the relations of influence and dependence that it is trying to shape. Ignoring the 1982 Convention on the Law of the Sea, Ankara intensifies its illegal moves. In this extremely complex landscape Greece must be determined and do so, protect its sovereign rights, implement its great diplomatic potential, become a country that invests in peace and international legitimacy, but without dismissing any of its rights, and that must be understood by everyone. Our country's right to extend the yacht zone up to twelve nautical miles whenever and as it considers it to be a national interest to do so to do so is unnecessarily, the right that today, on the historic initiative of the Prime Minister, is being activated for the benefit of our national rights. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreements which the Greek Parliament is called upon to ratify today strengthen the country internationally give it considerable supplies to come with confidence in a possible dialogue, a dialogue with a single object, the delimitation of the continent and the maritime areas in favour of it. The agreements on demarcation of EEZ between Greece - Egypt and Greece - Italy are a major geopolitical and economic move. The Greek-Italy Agreement recognises the principle of the average line that is and is a stable position for Greece with regard to the Aegean and Turkey, it also recognises rights in Greek islands located in the region, which is an important step not only in relation to Turkey but also in relation to Albania. We all know, of course, that each agreement requires mutual and beneficial understanding and these agreements contain this element on the basis of multiple and beneficial results. The Greek-Egypt Agreement is an extremely important agreement, which builds on an already fifteen-year diplomatic dialogue and takes place at the very time it had to be done, because it effectively breaks down the illegal Turkish pact which it has put against the country's sovereign rights, questioning the existence of maritime zones between Greece and Egypt. It is also an agreement that promotes the implementation of very important energy projects, such as this EastMed, of the work that Turkey has attempted to block with the illegal Turkish Turkish memorandum. It liberates the road to search for deposits in the areas south and east of Crete. Of course, it is a partial agreement and, as such, it will be part of a later overall demarcation between the two countries. This adds to it perspective and value, meaning that Greece is a country that is geopolitically claimed within the framework of its alliances, international law and the Law of the Sea. Greece is a country that is shielded by resolving peacefully and demarcating its maritime borders by negotiating and beneficial agreements. This deepens its sovereignty, strengthens its capacity in the region, enshrines an acquis based on international law which cannot be called into question by anyone. Ladies and gentlemen, in this prolonged crisis caused by Turkey, the Greek Government seriously and decisively triggers and awakens its allies, shows that the issue of Turkish reform is not bilateral, emphasises that Turkey in its attitude systematically undermines the evolution of the European vision. We already have the clear positions of the State Department, France, Austria, Israel, Egypt and we have the mediation efforts of the German Presidency of the European Union. However, Europe must decisively condemn Turkey's illegal actions not only by solidarity in a Member State that is affected by its sovereign rights, but above all as a strategic act in defending the European structure and the European vision for our region. The European Union cannot tolerate the systematic circumvention of international law and human rights. This has also been made clear in the case of Evros. It cannot tolerate the undermining of its financial interests related to its energy segregation. Greece will continue to fight both operationally and diplomaticly in the same dynamic way. In order to achieve this, we must all stand up to the circumstances of united and determined, all of which, of course, include the Officer of the Anti-Policy which, unfortunately, and today he is choosing the path of political turbulence, is behind a 'parties' coward, and refuses to be drawn up on the necessary national front, in practice to show that above party balances he puts the national interest. He sends the wrong message at the wrong time. It forgets, however, or cannot understand that the Greek people are drafted, supported and fully applauded by the government's national good policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Kefaliannis. I should like to invite the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Thanassis Pafili. Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing two major - truly serious - agreements signed by the government and, as it turns out, two agreements which will have direct, but also long-term consequences for our country, for the region of the south-eastern Mediterranean and of course for its peoples which are at the centre of competition and conflicts of strong imperialist forces in an area that is being removed from the historical reality, where the people have paid large rivers of blood, rooted in the interventions of the United States, NATO, the European Union. You're all talking about instability. What's that mocking? Who's causing the instability? Who caused instability in the wider region? Who dismantled Libya? Who created the same situation in Syria? Who in Iraq? Doesn't he have a name? Your allies are, to those you are supposed to trust that they will defend Greece's sovereign rights when they themselves have broken up countries - starting from Yugoslavia - have changed borders, they have dragged into blood, they have literally killed hundreds of thousands of innocent people in the region. And you're talking about instability and that these will be our allies. All governments have done so so so far and leave 'no national strategy'. All the governments of zero except - New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA, mixed and other governments - all these years in this massacre participate in and politically by adopting the interventions and economic measures taken - no 'no' - was present - and, militaryally, in so far as it has been requested, as well as in Libya, in Afghanistan, we went, in Iraq and wherever they requested, to Yugoslavia, we then facilitated the war with the PASOK government so that we do not forget ourselves. So it is part of the problem and is co-responsible to the extent, of course, of the strength it has in this whole situation. Question: All this policy of matching with the natives, the Americans, the European Union and other pigeons of peace has discouraged Turkish aggression - to ask why you are leaning on the world, that is to say today - or exactly the opposite? The Turkish bourgeoisie class was not only discouraged, but has scaled the aggression, upgraded the claims until the challenge of the Treaty of Lausanne, that is to say, a change in the borders. Isn't that right? So who do you rely on? And, of course, we explain that. They are the interests of the Greek capital, which feel most certainly through NATO, the European Union, through participation in the slaughter of the peoples to take a piece from the prey of the region. But, ladies and gentlemen, this whole argument has collapsed. Firstly, has Turkey been isolated? You all swear here. In essence Turkey has three occupying armies. He has a occupation in Cyprus, has a occupation in Iraq, has a occupation in Syria. He's built a base in Qatar new. He's building two bases in Cyprus. And you say it's isolated. How? Theoretically? He's not isolated. So it literally collapsed, the masks fell, we'd say. Only the coronary masks are left here to us. Political masks have fallen all this time because it was not just prevented, but Turkish aggression has been further encouraged. And there is now a debate here on whether there is or is not a national strategy. The word 'national' is put into introductory terms because the interests of the peoples and other interests of those who possess wealth and who hesitate to do nothing. So there are two policies in here. One is the difference between New Democracy, SYRIZA, Change Movement and those who are in general the Euro-Atlantic arc - to say this - and the other is ours, which is based on the popular interests that are contrary to everything else. And let hypocrisy now that we cannot - says SYRIZA - vote for it because there is no national strategy and finds some details. The Change Movement makes a wild criticism, and that is why it agrees. And we're asking again. Really, is there a clear condemnation of Turkish aggression? Where? In words? What does NATO say, your great god? "Find them." Find them in the spirit of allies in NATO, not in the spirit of the sovereignty of each country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please, Mr President, give me some time as you have given the others. Apart from the verbal words you do not know, in truth - Mr Dendias left -, Mr Varvitsiotis and others - that at the same time as the French, for example, who have brought them to the gods, are discussing with Turkish companies directly, today, at the same time as the Aegean? Do you not know that the Americans, the Germans, all have huge interests and talk to Turkey and to us are supposed to express their regret and expressly condemn Turkey? The Greek people and your officials admit that we will be alone - they say - and it is the people who will defend both the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the country that will undermine him not only possible aggressive actions by Turkey, but there will also be undermining by the allies themselves as they did in 1974 in Cyprus. Where's the thing going? Don't you see it? I don't think you're incomprehensible. The thing goes on to say that they have found them in general, of course there are differences, for the consideration of the Aegean and for the definitive division of Cyprus. We've been calling it years and we'll be confirmed once again. The agreements in this line are moving, no matter what is said. Both of the agreements signed by the government have the single strategy to create conditions to facilitate - I am not saying that it is consciously or not - that is what will be judged, but politics is not what you think, but what you decide - and actually help to get into the 'operational table' in the Aegean Sea and to pass the co-existence. The other parties agree on it. He's just drowning in his hair. SYRIZA, who played the leading in American relations, is trying to call for the first time in the history of the Greek state NATO in the Aegean - Mr. Katrugale, you personally said that NATO has changed and is good - which is now being slaughtered by bombs and is not slaughtered by hajars. That's the difference. So we say that someone needs to see a little further back because I heard the Change Movement talking. How did the situation change? Helsinki, Turkey's first recognition of claims in the Aegean. Yes or no? Yeah. What did Helsinki bring? He brought Madrid. What does Madrid say? Grey zones, following Turkey's vital interests in the Aegean Sea. That was the crucial issue, where the single policy that was in existence by all the parties who said that the only difference is the delimitation of the continental continent and the maritime zone. Isn't that what everyone said? Did that change or not? Did any government change it? Did he object later? Oh, no. It moved right in the same line. We say that these agreements open the door to this issue and to the partitioning of Cyprus. So let us go in particular to the agreement with Italy, which you are all voting on. The government says it's based on the Law of the Sea. Tell us where the agreement on the Law of the Sea refers to the limited influence of the islands. An article tell us something! What's he saying? On the contrary! That the islands have the same rights as land, so that I can just say that people understand and what we were talking about. He says Mr. Dendias - he is not here - that the debate on influence is a theological one. But are you kidding us that it's a theological thing? When you have a reduced 70% in the Copernicus Islands and 30% in the Strofades and you project the "sheet of figurative" that I have more in Kefalonia? But it's changing, geostrategics, put the map on! And the crossroads are a crucial point because they are three-dimensional, they are not international. Let me say one more thing. What was the first statement from the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs. "We welcome the agreement and let's do it in the Aegean Sea." Because exactly what this agreement does - and you either want to say it, Mr Couridi, or you do not want, where you are looking at me - is that it puts water on the wine on the subject of international law. It creates conditions tomorrow for all islands to do the same. And that's the perpetual objection of ours. Secondly, fishing rights. Where to? Twelve miles isn't our right? Why the six? The Italian shrimp and shelled skin and our shrimp and sardines will be fished. Why? What right? For what? Give us an explanation. Because, he says, that's how it was in 1977. Yes, but the International Treaty on the Law of the Sea was signed in 1982. Yes or no? What's stronger? In 1977, the bilateral or the international? And why didn't you go with the international and go with 1977? Is it the granting of sovereign rights to fisheries - we say - or is it not? Is the carpet and the reduced influence on such arrangements across the Aegean Sea? By the way, I should like to ask a question. What about fishermen and Turkish fishermen? What about the swordfishing with the Kalymnos? What's going on in the Aegean Sea right now? They also perish in our seas, and the government doesn't speak at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u142	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u143	I shall conclude, Mr President. The second relates to the agreement with Egypt, which was made on the agenda and is a partial agreement. Is it or not? Second of all, where did you guys come from, because you're talking about international law? What does International Law say? In the middle, 50-50. Where does it come from 56-44? It's 32,000 and a few square miles. Why did you grant them like that? To plunge the Turkish- Libyan Pact? What's the point? Why do you hand over the country's sovereign rights? Thirty - two thousand miles [three thousand km] you deliver them to Egypt. In addition, what is now ophthalmic and angering the world and especially on the islands is delimitation. Outside Kastelorizo, a piece of Rhodes, Crete. Why all this? What's the point? We say that the reason is to come the next one with Turkey. And SYRIZA comes along and does something unprecedented. I, at least, don't know when to vote for a party that votes 'at present' in an agreement. This goes beyond the limits of obedience. One more thing. Why are you shouting about the Turkle Pact? We say it's illegal, unacceptable, etc. Who signed it? Erdogan with who? With Sarage. Sarage, who recognized him? UN. Who's backing him up? All your allies and yours: the United States, NATO, etc., who refuse to take a clear stand that it is illegal. Nowhere is there a statement that it's illegal because they play and it's obvious they play everywhere. We say the people can't wait for anything good. It opens up the bourgeoisie of Haul and even an agreement that will take place against Greece and its sovereign rights as soon as it is signed, will begin the new round of conflicts that may be worse. People must fight against the imperialist forces in the region and the governments that support them, build their own alliances. And in the argument, Mr Varvitsiotis, which you have said and which others have said, that this is the reality, and here we shall move, there is also Heraklion, "Eraklitos, everything flows and nothing remains", as long as the people are awakened. We in this direction are moving.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u144	Please prepare the Step and call SYRIZA MP, Mr. Yiannis Balafa, for seven minutes. Here, Mr Balafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u145	In the very interesting debate that is taking place or unfolding particularly after the speeches of the Heads of State and Government, I would like to focus on the agreement between Greece and Egypt and say that first of all we need to clarify - once again to make it clear - that the repetition is the mother of learning for whoever is late to understand - that we are firm and timely in favour of dialogue and peaceful resolution of our existing differences with all our neighbours, always based on International Law and the Law of the Sea. Why am I saying this in particular and I have been stressing this from the outset? Why are there perceptions within the government party, and I am referring in particular to the views of Mr Samaras, the former Prime Minister, a selective New Democracy official, who, in his recent interview with a daily newspaper, said, pointed out that he was against dialogue with Turkey. And I would like to say, therefore, that such perceptions are far from us. I believe - I have heard interesting statements just now from you - that it is dangerous, that it is perpetuating, that it is a continuation of a right-wing - in my opinion - a policy followed by the New Democracy when it was opposition to the Prespecies Agreement, so that we do not forget about it. So I repeat 'yes' in dialogue, without'speaking, leaving' and without reservations. Any dialogue, of course, may also contain compromises. Can he? Of course, he can. The main thing, however, is when you start a dialogue or when you look at a dialogue there is a strategy, red lines and clear targets. That is what we think, that is our view and is also the basis of today's debate: it is that we are lacking - and we will not be tired of repeating this - by the current government this particular strategy. In the face of the designs of our neighbours, the dangerous, provocative and so on, the government had to promote a structured national strategy that defends our sovereign rights and works to relaunch the exploratory talks on the Exclusive Economic Zone and the continental shelf by appealing to The Hague if the discussions fail if we cannot end up somewhere. The absence of a national strategy on the part of the Government towards these developments and its refusal to engage in any real dialogue within the country, to exchange views and conclude a national strategy at the level of political parties, in order to form and implement such a national strategy, in our view poses risks. And if the government, as it claims, has a strategy to explain to us what this strategy is, not generic, of course, is in favour of peace in general and indefinitely, because the agreement with Egypt - to which I am referring in particular - says things that concern the strategy, for example, the islands and their reduced influence. Is that the strategy? Reduced influence on the islands and zero in Kastelorizo? And how much reduction is acceptable? Is it a quantitative element of the reduction, as was possibly quantifiable - I do not want to say bad words about the Minister - the violation of our territory, our national sovereignty and our territorial rights in Evros at some point? Is it acceptable that Crete especially has a reduced influence? And if that's it, you can tell us to place it. And the view - I say it with all my appreciation to the Minister - in general that there is no method, that it is a question of correlations of power, discussion and consensus, does not express us. You took something into your mind, I don't think you went in general and vaguely and "seeing and doing". Mercy! I don't believe it. I don't want to believe it. I can't believe it. Is there a method or do I not know whether the word'method' is the best in a grammatic sense, but did you go with a plan, with a programme, with some data - or not? - on red lines, no? The retreats, therefore - and this is why we call them - which you have done against Egypt, which was not all - in my opinion - needy or could have been avoided, created - is important - some precedents which, in order not to be successful and to be tackled in a timely manner, clearly require a national diplomatic and defence strategy. And one more thing: you are giving us the image, you are giving the image to the people, to the citizens that the government is on the main criterion of communication, not the essence. The clear example is the question of the movement of the ship, the 'ORUC REIS'. He walks in areas below Kastelorizo and says that he is making regular investigations - which means he is trespassing on our national sovereignty and rights in this area - and so what is Turkey doing? That's what he's after - and that's what he's doing? - to break the area, while you state that it does not do research, cannot do research because there is noise. This is, unfortunately, your policy, noise policy to confuse the world. In our view, very low substance, no comprehensive planning, no prospect in depth. Ladies and gentlemen, I fear - and this is a bad advisor, in my opinion - that you are looking for a balance between a far-right audience of yours - a part of your audience - and also your extreme right-wing officials and the European tradition of your party, which I think - the Minister has presented today quite rightly. 'This' could be said 'it is our internal theme'. It's your internal theme, but it's not just inside you, it's nobody's family property country, so you can move without giving an account and playing on national issues. Public opinion of the country, citizens are following developments and will be very strict with you and of course, if you - and I speak to you - fail to meet the requirements. We will be, we will continue to be positive to any action that gives solutions to time-consuming issues based on International Law, but we are and will be decisively opposed to any holocaust, any communication and right-wing management of national issues. For all this, we have come to the conclusion that SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance to vote "residents" in one of the two conditions, in the Greek Egyptian. And the 'present' is not, as some claim, neutral. It is not neutral at all, it is not in the middle, it does not say 'I have no opinion', we have and we provide. It is the one I have already made and made known by our representatives and by our President. And I would say that it is a sign that is strategically effective - in our view - and is national and patriotic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u146	I would ask that the Step be prepared and that I call on the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Spilios Lebanese to speak for six minutes and then Mr Athanasios Davakis will take the floor. Here, Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting - I will repeat it as well - is historic, because Greece has grown today. For the first time after the incorporation of the Dodecanese, our territory is growing. The decision to extend the kayalitis zone from six nautical miles to twelve announced by the Prime Minister a few hours ago proves that we are a sovereign country, with a plan and a national strategy. I would like, in fact, to reply to the former Prime Minister who has been to blame for the Members of our delegation for applauding this announcement. Yes, indeed, everyone - and I in them - feel proud to be part of this parliamentary group, on this side, led by this Prime Minister, led by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of this Minister. I am proud to support this government with my vote. I feel proud and we all feel proud to vote by roll-call vote - and thank you for this paradoxically putting these two agreements in this process. They are two agreements that produce substantial results for our nation and increase our national confidence. These are two agreements, the result of our national strategy - what you say we do not have - and our integrated foreign policy. This is a strategy which is to resolve our differences with all our neighbours and on the basis of International Law, with an unscrupulous commitment to legality and good neighbourly principles, with our incomprehensible principles of safeguarding our national sovereignty and defending our sovereign rights. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of today's sitting, with the objection of unconstitutionalism tabled by the Greek Party, we saw how the institutions are working on the altar of micro-political and opportunistic populism. I must admit, because I have been following the course of the Greek Solution for the entire time that I am a Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, that I was surprised that despite any disagreements we may have, I think they are always part of the substance of the issues and not of the types. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Greek Solution, today you have chosen to make a profit at the expense of our country's national policy. You spoke of the assignment of national sovereignty to agreements that increased our maritime zones by seventy - six thousand square kilometres and by thirty - eight thousand square kilometres respectively with Italy and Egypt. They are agreements that in practice cancel the illegal Turkish pact, which deepen our cooperation with Egypt. They're agreements that just to say one more time, they're growing up and strengthening our country. But I must refer to what the Chief of Staff has said and what the SYRIZA executives have to say. The attitude you choose weakens the national line, ladies and gentlemen, and unfortunately it can work on the opposite side of the Aegean. Your Chief had declared in 2013 that the "partners" is a desert planning. The Prime Minister didn't say so, Mr. Mitsotakis didn't say so. He respected Mr. Tsipras, but we must mention it in this Chamber. That's what Mr. Tsipras said. In national matters, then, we are once again telling you that the present does not exist. You did the same with the Agreement with the United States on the deepening of military cooperation and strengthening the Souda Base, but also with the hydrocarbons conventions. These are agreements that you know well that in many cases you have negotiated and finalised. So now, unfortunately, you are choosing the path of irresponsibility and distance, the path that ultimately promotes your party unity against national interest. You accused the government of lack of a national strategy, but also of an incorrect method of demarcation of maritime zones. Mr. Dendias answered. He is uneasy many times - I have sincerely congratulated him - because you are bringing him back to this same debate many times. Mr. Mitsotakis answered you. Even the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement answered what is happening. You spoke of the incomplete preparation and curiosity of the agreement with Egypt. But you are primarily detesting the service actors of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the diplomats who have worked and under your political guidance for the agreement that we are currently in force. These people, instead of being merciful to them, should be congratulated. In your criticism, why did we not define when we were government in the past with EEZ and Egypt, I respond with a brief historical regression. As Mrs Bakoyannis said a moment ago, in 2005 as government Minister for Foreign Affairs Kostas Karamanlis went four times to Egypt to complete the agreement. Egypt's stance at the Mubarak leadership then prevented the negotiations being concluded. The fall of Mubarak and the coming to the authority of President Morsi stopped the momentum of the negotiations, since Morsi, as Mr. Tsipras knows, was part of the Muslim Brothers' party. But when President Sisi took over power, Antonis Samaras went to Cairo for the reopening of the negotiations and you were, your resignation, which, with the work at the time of the election of the President of the Republic, dropped his government and stopped this process. The Prime Minister tried, with his reference to Eleftherios Venizelos and his partial responsibility, to lure Mr Tsipras into a conciliation, in my view desirable by the Greek people as a whole. Even that, or Mr. Tsipras didn't understand or did that he didn't understand. Instead of taking advantage of this position and creating today after this debate a single arrogant national front, in order to go all the political forces towards the explosive climate created by Mr Tsavosoglou's statements yesterday before the German Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Erdogan's unacceptable statements and pro-war videos, but also all this provocative position of Turkey in recent months, instead of making his head of SYRIZA overcoming, gaining the credit of his own history, uniting his voice and his vote with his great political opponent today, in order to face up to the provocation united nation, he has returned to the past. He rushed to gain micro-partnerial benefits with references to civil and national division. That's too bad! Honestly, that's too bad! Once again you have lost all the Members of SYRIZA the opportunity to retire. In order not to get far, by closing down, I would like to say once again that these agreements strengthen Greece's position on the map of the south-eastern Mediterranean. They send a strong signal to all directions and especially to Ankara, while in practice canceling the illegal Turkish pact. The Members of the New Democracy - I say this once again - are proud to be voting for them and even now we are making a final appeal to all of the governments of Parliament not to have anyone on the wrong side of history today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, too. Please prepare the Step and call Mr. Athanasios Davakis, Member of the New Democracy, to speak. Here, Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, on November 16, 1961, during his speech at Washington University, the then President of the United States of America, John Kennedy, said: "Diplomacy and defence are not substitutes for each other. In itself, each of them may fail. The will to resist violence, without the mood for talks, can cause conflict, while the mood for talks, without the will to resist violence, can lead to destruction." This close interdependence between diplomacy and military power is, in my view, the central pillar of this government's strategy. On the front of international law and with the instrument of bilateral agreements with neighbouring states, our country seeks to build an architecture of security and prosperity in the Eastern Mediterranean. The two conventions we are debating today are products of this national strategy. The delimitation of the maritime zones with Italy is, as has been said repeatedly, a transformation of the agreement between us on the continental continent of the continent and is drawn up on the basis of the criterion of the average line, while the islands' right to the exclusive zone is recognised. The agreement with Egypt is equally balanced and supportive of our country's positions, as it also recognises the rights of even the smaller islands in the Exclusive Economic Zone. Unfortunately, Turkey refuses to follow us on this path of understanding and to come to sincere negotiations on the demarcation of the continental shelf or even to accept a joint referral to The Hague. On the contrary, with illegal and irrational demands, by extortion, involved in regional conflicts, with irregular and shadowy arrangements with states such as Libya and with the threat of using force, he is trying to prevent and undermine the building of a regional system of peaceful coexistence and prosperity, which our region so much needs. Faced with this illegal and destabilising Turkish behaviour, the government and the Prime Minister have fought from the first moment against a balanced mix of diplomacy and determination. Allied states, such as France, which provided military and diplomatic support for our country, have been mobilised immediately to develop our Armed Forces, which have taken key positions in all the theatres, and finally the competent European institutions have been convened in an attempt to establish a package of sanctions against Turkey. In addition, operational and strategic surprises took place in Turkey, such as the dispatch of combat aircraft to Cyprus only recently. Based on this reality, ladies and gentlemen, and with regard to the area that gives us the right to display power and exercise sovereignty, namely our Armed Forces, that is, the men and women of the Armed Forces, the strains that are the multiplier of these, I think we should think about two strategic horizons: First of all, it is necessary to move here and now on the existing, as you can see, financial planning for the completion of certain targeted and very critical armaments programmes, concerning the operational readiness and the fighting power of certain weapons systems that are critical pillars of the country's deterrent power, such as the underwater anaerobic propulsion of our Navy. In this area, we must say that important steps have already been taken by the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence, such as voting for, for example, the subsequent support of Miraz aircraft. The government and the Ministry of National Defence must continue in this direction. At the same time, we must prepare ourselves diligently for the future. Developments in our international environment, in technology and in our country's economic data are running. So from now on we need to look carefully at what I said, as we have already said, is the right to show power, namely our national defence, namely the Armed Forces. The successful completion of such a process of essential preparation does not require that we invent the wheel. International and domestic experiences show the general direction in which we should move in terms of structure, organisation, processes and dogma. Emphasis should be placed on the accumulation of targeted and substantial individual arrangements. Small victories in areas such as education, inter-class cooperation, administration and control, surveillance, information, cyber defence, defence planning process, the legal framework of defence procurement - a crucial issue - the defence industry and personnel care can yield major benefits and prepare the ground for the future and for this day in national defence. As the second rapporteur, Mr Katrugalos, has rightly said during the committee debate, these two international agreements must be judged within their wider strategic environment. So today's debate is not just a formal ratification of international treaties, but a station and a parliamentary, but also a national one, in a lasting and long-term effort in this country to defend the international legality and the rules of good neighbourliness in the Eastern Mediterranean region. I call on you to think about this, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition. Your positive vote and not this pretext of 'present' will be an important blow to forging the national unity and the national unity that the Greek people so need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u150	And we thank Mr Davaki. I call on the Greek Parliamentary spokesman for the Greek Solution to step up Mr. Vassiliardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u151	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is a rich, multiplely gifted country, with enormous potential and prospects, in an extremely important geopolitical position, with a wonderful climate, with fertile territories and a unique one in the world history of cultural heritage. Greece, however, is at the same time a country where its governments constantly disappoint Greek women and Greek citizens and politicians in both the ruling party, many of whose MPs often have the same views as us and in the opposition. Governments without vision and often inadequate, leading the country to defeated compromises even with small states, as in the sad example of Skopje. For example, while it is certain that it can easily solve its problems or sign advantageous international conventions without endangering anyone else, apart from its bad self, it is precisely what is happening, that is, unfortunately, the bad self in many cases, including those which have led us to the present great deadlocks. The downhill downhill of our country has started since its economic independence began to shrink, as a result of its public debts at the time, which reached 100% of its GDP in the early 1990s. The decline in its financial independence continued with the ten-year mismanagement, which followed its entry into the Eurozone, resulting in its overcompensation in 2009, which not only did not cope properly, but did everything to lose it completely with the well-known crime of the PSI in 2012, which was completed by the resolution of the third memorandum in 2015. From there on, where Greece is now under the economic occupation of foreigners and mainly their leader, Germany, having become a debt colony with the majority of citizens impoverished, it was assumed that its intensive amputation, which began with the surrender of Macedonia's name, would be more likely to defer the payment of EUR 95 billion, which would not be served, for after 2032. Having mentioned exactly where Germany serves the agreement with Skopje and what future risks for Macedonia involve us, and also for Greece, I will not repeat it. I would just point out that if we do not recover our economic sovereignty, we will constantly lose national sovereignty both at sea and at land. Our issue today is the resumption of a similar substance of history, of compromises, that is because of our economic weakness, which lead to the next mutilation of our national sovereignty, which will not be the only one, meaning the conventions with Italy and above all Egypt, which are actually being debated in advance, since they have already signed without questioning any other government that disappoints Greeks for the most part, while the MPs of the Co-Population and the parties of the Reconciliation are called upon to express their views without, however, being able to change anything. In other words, we are putting ourselves before the facts known as 'decide and order', without even being given the opportunity to protect our country, even if the agreements are unconstitutional, as we have established at the beginning of the meeting, it is sufficient to read the documents that we have submitted. We stress that there would be no such issue if Greece were not one of the few countries on the planet that has no constitutional court. However, it is not right to play with the words 'national sovereignty' and 'exercise of sovereign rights'. It doesn't help anyone. Starting now from the agreement with Italy, the clear aim of which was to prepare the Greeks for the agreement with Egypt, the status of reduced influence on the Dialogue Islands and the Strofodas, which is no place on the planet, and also our acceptance that Italian fishermen can enter the Greek EEZ by fishing for what we have most, is eloquently unacceptable. Further, we made concessions in Italy, but the problem is smaller than Egypt, whose parliament was reasonably raped to vote after we grant far more free than it could ever imagine. It is incomprehensible why the government has not declared and has not previously defined an EEZ with Cyprus, which cannot be due to it, since no one is so foolish, but to external orders that it probably took. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In this regard we will only mention how Mr Maise described the agreement and put it in the Minutes, so that we do not repeat what has already been said. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] He called it 'harmful, incomplete and therefore dangerous for our national sovereign rights'. He stressed - as the President of the Greek Solution has said dozens of times, Mr Velopoulos - that we should start demarcation with Cyprus and then continue with Egypt so that, on the one hand, we can avoid painful surprises, on the other hand, we should put Turkey against international legitimacy. He continued by saying that there is no provision of the Maritime Law for some of the limits, which may not be illegal but are controlled in terms of their feasibility in this geopolitical context. That is exactly what our rapporteur told Mr Loverdo, not what he said earlier. Finally, he asked the following questions to which the government is waiting to reply. What did we receive in exchange for Egypt to grant it about 9% of our own continental shelf area? Let alone in the Mediterranean coast, where the geologic structure of salty structures guarantees the existence of huge amounts of gas, obviously worth tens of billions of euros that we separated for no reason, as we will add. Should we not at least demand recognition of the legitimate influence of the Kastelorizo complex and indeed of the Stringle which ensures that the Greek EEZ is contacted with that of Cyprus? Isn't it self-evident? Unfortunately, Greece also acted by imitation of the injurious, Greek sovereign rights, agreement with Italy. What was feared by the government and did not proceed with the immediate and uninterrupted demarcation with Cyprus, where, firstly, it would have had full recognition of the influence of the Kastelorizo complex and, secondly, would it have ensured that the Greek and Cyprus EEZs were fully contacted, bearing Turkey again with international legitimacy? We hope that the government will answer these questions at least without waiting for them. Of course we will not vote on either agreement, noting that on such important national issues as'residence' is the least cowardly and irresponsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u152	Please take care of the Step. Give the floor to the Member of the Change Movement, Mr. Georgios Kamin for seven minutes. Here, Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this Chamber yesterday we heard from the former Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dora Bakoyannis, that our country has already been in the pretext of concluding agreements on maritime zones with our neighbouring countries. Our aim was to complete all the international agreements. However, fifteen barren years have elapsed. So what happened after these fifteen years and we close the agreements behind each other within a period of few months and hear from the Minister, just now that there is the very serious possibility of having talks with Albania? The answer is, we're out of the inertia, we've lifted sleeves and balls, and we're running. The good news is that the country is finally taking drastic initiatives. The negative is that we ran, but severing behind developments that others had previously shaped. And we all know that I'm talking about the illegal Turkle memorandum. And in order to have an accurate sense of the measure of things, in order not to drift away from unnecessary triumphs, we should not underestimate that a significant part of the work with Italy has been carried out for decades since our agreement is practically on the 1977 agreement. While the agreement with Egypt has unambiguous points, it leaves open issues very serious that we may find them before us much faster than we imagine. I will not go into this before our parliamentary representative and speakers have been thoroughly mentioned. We still have to keep the big picture alive. Despite all the reservations I have made with the agreements between Italy and Egypt, we have ensured a valuable outward witness, the international legitimacy of the country as a force of responsibility and stability in contrast to the image of the turmoil characterised by Turkey by Erdogan, which is not insignificant in an international environment that is increasingly threatened by irrational forces, asking to overthrow the international balances created after World War II, but is not able to propose an elementary alternative system of global peaceful coexistence. In this international environment of liquidity and uncertainty the role of Greece as a force of peace and stability in the most flammable corner of the world is invaluable. The question now needs to be how to capitalise this legitimacy with as much substantial international support as possible. It is very important that Greece behaves like a country that is willing and capable of closing such fronts at its borders. The fact that decades' loose ends enter into a series of and begin to be settled solved solves the hands of Greek diplomacy and frees diplomatic capital to deal with the real big issues in our bilateral relations with Turkey. They do not want the domestic patriots to see them, the supposedly incompatible, those who caused the two major national tragedies of the 20th century: the Asia Minor Disaster and the Turkish invasion of Cyprus. Demagogic encroachment on national issues may mock the ears of some naive ones, but it leads to immorality. And when it stands still, then time runs against us. That is what we have seen for decades now in Cyprus, resulting in an ever-increasing degree in its solution, a lack of tension in the region. It is therefore time to realise that we have a national duty to take drastic initiatives to open up some kind of dialogue with Turkey. Under an inalienable condition: the country does not discuss with the gun to the head. To make it clear that we will not start any kind of talks with Turkey while it continues to threaten, blackmail and systematically violate international law in the Aegean Sea and, more generally, in the Eastern Mediterranean. At the moment, a national strategy, despite what he tried to tell us, to convince us, the Minister doesn't exist. But the rapid developments in recent months, along with the experience we have gained over the years, allow us to distinguish some key pillars of a national strategy: The first is that it is indeed national, namely that it should be the fruit of a co-existence and opposition agreement, including in the widest possible range of the latter. This political broadness is what it will give and, in any event, necessary at every strategic depth, since it will now apply regardless of who is in the government. We are forging this homogeneity in this Chamber today. And this consensus - despite all the differences which are being heard, I have begun to see it - we must seal it on a Council of Political Heads, as we have been demanding for a long time now. But here it is a Council of Political Heads who will not just come to record positions - that makes no sense, that we disagree - but that will come as the sealing of some national agreement on key issues. The second pillar is the strategy reference framework. And this can only be international law, which must be dominant in all phases of dialogue, from the beginning to the end. To ensure, in the event of disagreement, that disputes are referred to an international judicial body. We must finally stop hiding behind our finger. We will not be entitled to all our positions. This is in every dialogue that aims to lead to agreement, that is to say, a compromise is inevitable. But International Law is our shield. As it is being recorded today, it is favourable to the majority of Greek positions and we must take advantage of that. The third pillar is our alliances, not so NATO, which unfortunately continues to represent Pontius Pilate, but the European Union in particular. With the events of the fence in Evros last March, our partners began to wake up and realize that the Greek border is not only on the map but also on the realm of Europe's borders. The United States is not at present a partner on which we can count on the same confidence that we previously had, not only because of the incoherent and many unforeseen Donald Trump, but also because of the circumstance of the forthcoming American elections opening an unfinished and inertia in American politics for a long time which, if Trump is not elected, will probably be longer than in November. So we can rely on our European partners with much greater confidence, because Erdogan is constantly opening up new fronts. This aggression is solitary, as it is becoming increasingly evident that it poses a threat to international security in the Mediterranean. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by stressing that the conflict between Greece and Turkey is no longer just about the bilateral differences between the two countries, the existing problems, the deserving past. It can be defined as another episode of global confrontation between authoritarianism and democracy. In this battle Greece with a policy based on international law, its commitment to regional and global prosperity, the principles of the rule of law have chosen the right camp. Turkey is pursuing an anachronistic policy based on power that will not lead it away. So the agreements with Italy and Egypt, in conflict with the Turkish illegal pact, conducive to the differences between the two countries. And we are strengthening this attitude today with our vote as a Change Movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u154	I should now like to call on the New Democracy colleague, Mr Thodore Roussopoulos, in Stepma. Here, Mr. Russopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President. Three are the categories that I have noted in the middle - the extremes that the Civic Opposition was directed to the Government: the first concerns the partial delimitation of the EEZ between Greece and Egypt. The second, of course, related to the first, concerns the 28th mediterranean. And the third category claims that New Democracy has a strategy deficit on national issues. In the first category, of course, he had already responded as Chief of Officership and former Prime Minister, and today he reiterated in his speech earlier here. Since 15 June, he said that we should conclude an agreement with Egypt, even in part. We are going in part, in fact, to say in affirmatively. In other words, he considered it a given thing that he blamed today. In the second quarter of this year, I have to say with great elegance that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Dendias, and with courtesy the other day in committee, and today, with reference to the fact that SYRIZA as a government had stopped at 27.59 and, in my opinion, said - rightly in my opinion - that it would not follow the footstep of some of the former Foreign Ministers or Defence Ministers of the SYRIZA Government in particular, which, as a paper-working war, brought the documents that were classified by declassifying them beforehand. It's not allowed to do this thing, Trinity said, and we all agree with him, I think. So far, ladies and gentlemen, two of the three main elements which the Cape Verde accused the Government of Qualified Opposition proves to be the same as what it wanted when it was a government. The third, the strategy, is a little more complex and more general. But SYRIZA's accuseing New Democracy of not having a strategy on national issues could be interpreted in a multi-purpose game. First interpretation: Our critics think that history was born in 2015 when they became government. Second interpretation: Our critics think the people feed on lotus. Third interpretation: Our critics think they are the descendants of Taleyrand. All three could be the same on the basis of what they have said so far. You argued, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that you had a strategy when you said that we should close an agreement on a partial demarcation with Egypt and we do not have a strategy that we closed the agreement. You said that you had a strategy when you were discussing an agreement at 27.59 mediterranum and we don't have one. Of course, Mr Tsipras said today something that even goes beyond himself. So far we have become accustomed in this Chamber to hearing SYRIZA say about various bills brought by the government "we had it on the stools, we had it on our footsteps, but we didn't have time to bring it". Now it says "we had it in the scaffolds, we talked about it, but we were never going to do it." If you do not say mockery about an ally with which our country has signed this agreement, our important agreement, what could it say? Ladies and gentlemen, it is at least inappropriate to say that there is no strategy for decades that has been oriented towards the West and its democratically institutionalised achievements, what has, in any case, been justified by history, the fact that the country has led to successful integration into the European family, the fact that it did not hesitate to oppose when it had to go with NATO's family and in the 1970s and the '00s, the fact that it was opening up to those times - and I speak of the 1970s in China or the Soviet Union - seemed incomprehensibly to many other Western democracies. You have ruled for four years, but let me think that you are judged for all forty years, what you have been opposition to these highly successful and beneficial strategic choices for the country. A strategy did not follow this line: to zero the story of her opponent or underestimate him. And we did not, because we do not believe in such a logic. Those who do or continue to do so, let them review, why they do not benefit either the country or the political controversy. Mr President, I would normally close my speech here. However, the reference made by the Chief of Staff Response - and even twice - to the doctrine of Molyviat, which he unfortunately described as 'immovement dogma' in national matters, requires me to respect not only the man with whom I worked with the Karamanlis government, but to the man whom I knew very young to be one of the country's major diplomatic actors not only because he was next to Constantine Karamanlis, but also as a young diplomat in the Soviet Union, in the action that he had in the difficult decades of the 50s and 60s in the Cyprus fight for independence, to know - and we all know - the dynamics of the man and his contribution to the place. But - I close here - it was not a Molyviat doctrine that said that we will not hit the opponent where he wants, or we will not go in the way he wants, but we will stick to international law. It was a doctrine followed by Constantine Karamanlis since '74, a doctrine followed by Andreas Papandreou and many other Prime Ministers. Last sentence: If, ladies and gentlemen, you believe in what you are saying, then why did you really believe in the roll-call vote? As far as we are concerned, we are not afraid of it, of course, because we will vote as did our Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, and all the Members who have spoken and are present, and those who come tomorrow for the roll-call vote. But does this have to do with that group of Members of your own party, which has taken a stand in favour of the agreement at the first time? Are you, in the end, afraid that if you stand up against this agreement, would you have many of your own MPs come to the government camp or come - will I say it differently - in the national - that is, that is, that this is the national interest - camp, to vote in favour of this agreement? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u156	And we thank Mr Rusopulus. I call on the SYRIZA MP, Mr. Ioannis Muzala. You have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I enter the subject, I too would like to congratulate the Port for the great rescue operation that it has done in Halki. Our government is aware of the possibilities of the port. Four hundred thousand rescues. So the self-evident thing he has done is no more heroism, but one must congratulate them every time. This does not deny that you are push back, that some groups - seem to be involved there by some from the Port - are push back, which the NGOs do not report. They are denounced by the Danish Minister, by Germany, by the President of FRONTEX. We'll have, we're afraid, new Pharmaconesia, and then you'll have to stand with a sense of responsibility. The second thing I would like to say is that we are very happy that the New Democracy, since historically thought that SYRIZA was doing the twelve miles to the Ionian Sea and to a part of Crete, would divide the Greek people with fiery speeches both from Mr Koumoutsako and other MPs, today proposes. And we can only be happy about this thing. Because finding a right position and accepting it, by accepting its wrong position, in my view, for humble reasons then, but at the moment it is a serious and important matter. It's not just, you know, a year ago. On Sunday at "Kathimerini" Member of the New Democracy, whose scientific competence I highly appreciate and I have worked with him and I have recognized in the House that he helped me with his positions and views, he explained why the twelve miles should not take place in the Ionian Sea, why he would create problems in the two seas, otherwise in the Aegean or whatever. Nevertheless, we welcome it. Finally, I will mention - because I shall refer to the black points of the agreements - that, without any doubt - our speakers have said so - a Turkish memorial from the agreement with Egypt is a very important and positive element. It does not annul the agreement, with this verbatimism that you are very often expressed to convince of something that does not apply, but quite clearly it perverts it. I would like to ask the following question to the Members of the New Democracy and to the Members of the Change Movement: Under the terms of the Egyptian agreement, we will, under these conditions, go to the negotiations with the Turks. That is a question you need to clarify. In other words, the national position - not for us, but for the national one, which we went with until we see what will happen - for the full influence of the islands is lost? The middle line that was the national position was the place you fantasized about, with which you were creating new Salamines, new battles, new patriotic instincts and feelings, is it true, or are we going on with proportionality? Or do we do each other a little bit? These are questions that need to be answered. We've answered them. And whenever we responded, you accused us of lack of patriotism, of irresponsibility. These disgraceful things that your protracted Macedonian and Northern Macedonia had done. In any case, however, you have to tell us. What? I would also like to tell you that in any debate with Turkey on the maritime zones we are in favour and cultivate this issue, namely that contacts with Turkey should not be interrupted and you were once again accused, for endemics you accused us of having no anti-patriotic characterisation that you do not give us - we do not give you that - but tell us exactly what you are doing? I say, therefore, that you have recently said that the bays must be closed and the lines must be drawn up. Will the tricks be closed? Will the lines be characterized? Are we going to the debate with Turkey without closing the vagina? Because if we don't close the vaginas, the middle line won't be engraved. We're only going to Turkey for AOZ, just for the continental shelf? Because the question of dominance of islands will automatically arise, which defines the EEZ and the continental continent and which Turkey denies Greek sovereignty. It is therefore a very complex issue. It is better for reasons of national unity - and I mean that - to make the policies clear to see, where we will agree and where we will disagree. There's a discomfort in the New Democracy. Behind the enthusiasm, behind the sarcasm, behind Mr. Rousopoulos' thin humor, behind what you are blessed to have Prime Minister Mitsotakis is a embarrassment. And that embarrassment you're going to accuse us of it. You're decaying. Mr Tsavosoglou was your argument to attack SYRIZA for saying that the agreement you signed has these weak points that you signed and that the Turks know about, which will undermine future discussions with Turkey. And that's something we need to see if we can all together. If we can't, we'll see it apart. But we cannot close our eyes on this matter. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You don't have a strategy. This is embarrassing. You went out and wrote articles. Mr Petsa's newspapers accused SYRIZA of giving arguments to Mr Tsavosoglu, who then said that the agreement you signed with Egypt gives us very serious arguments so that we can achieve our claims. Mr. Cavusoglu said so. We didn't come out to say that. You guys are trying to decay. I'm done because time has passed. Forgive me. There's no strategy. There's intelligence. There are stylish ways of expressing a lack of strategy. But what we need is a strategy to see where we agree and where we do not agree, with pure papers and not hypocrisy. Last year the twelve miles divide and destroy Greece in the Ionian Sea and this year is a victory and you made Greece bigger and all that? The Greeks have memory, mind and thought. There are very serious issues. "People" is not a trick. You know, Mr Roussopoulos - Mr Roussopoulos, I am addressing you, because your word was really elegant, regardless of whether we disagree, so I do not want you to speak on personal grounds because I say your name - he convinced me that we have cheaply escaped to SYRIZA and we have not been broken up because you have brought a bad deal. The embarrassment is yours. SYRIZA is "present". The present is a fighting position, which goes hand in hand with the position we have, namely that the agreement has a very important part, that of the Turklibi pact, but all of its other causes a problem. So the 'present' is a fighting position. It is not a "I put my head in the sand". The present is a place that says that we are here. It's a responsible patriotic position. We recognize the opponent abroad and we do not want to create issues like what you created with the clothed Roman gladiators who thought that was the way the Macedonians were dressing up in Thessaloniki on horses. However, we also recognise a risk to your policy. With the present, we tell you that we are here and we are watching you. We're observing you. We'll stand across the street. So the "present" of SYRIZA is a "present". He's asking for an active attitude. It's a constant reminder and pressure. You know Kaplan, an American journalist, geographer, historian has expressed his opinion - modern is - that geography is fate. To stop geography being a destiny, a policy must be pursued. The policy currently being pursued does not change the fate of geography. And that is where, to the extent that can be done, the parties should coordinate or disagree radically. Because it cannot be the fate of our people, the continuing lack of negotiation, the constant patriotic crowns, the lack of situations and through some new hot episode of retreat. The 'present' tells us that international law must cease to be used only in defence against foreign claims and be used by our country for its claims as regards international law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u158	Mr. Amiros Lazarides from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, foreign policy, lesson one: The greatest art in war is to subdue to your enemy without battle. This is mentioned by the famous Chinese general and writer Sun Chu. That is exactly why we are here today. Today, we are sealing a double and emphatic victory for our country. We legalise and reward the choice of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis in the persistent investment in diplomacy, a choice of strategy with clear orientation, a tangible result that gives a convincing response to the full-fronted and escalating Turkish provocation, a choice that gives rise to the stagnation, coolness, determination and preparedness of our country in the management of its foreign policy. Today, we are proud to see the two historic agreements on the delimitation of maritime zones with Italy and the delimitation of the Exclusive Economic Zone with Egypt. What does our country achieve with these agreements? It succeeds in fully changing the data in the field of Greek-Turkish, as well as in the south-eastern Mediterranean. With Italy, the right to extend the yacht zone to the twelve nautical miles provided for in the agreement becomes a tangible policy that increases Greece, according to the historic decision of the Prime Minister of Greece Kyriakos Mitsotakis. In addition, Greece finally acquires a legal text, which is recognised by the guarantees of international law that the islands have a full influence on continental and maritime areas. The historic agreement with Egypt ensures Greek sovereign rights, as defined by International Maritime Law between the 26th and 28th mediterranean. To be precise, Minister 27,59. It cancels de facto and de jure the Sarage - Turkey's most crucial geographical part we care about anyway. It strengthens the prospect of the energy interconnection of the south-eastern Mediterranean between Cyprus, Israel, Egypt and Greece. Overall, they are agreements between countries that do not question each other's rights, do not blackmail, threaten, and therefore show the right way of approaching each other. The two agreements beyond national success also mark the end of a time of hesitation in our foreign policy. And with active diplomatic investment, our country safeguards its sovereign rights through the cultivation of multilateral alliances. They are a strong and solid emblem in Turkish reform through the creation of a strong legal acquis. Let me come to the foreign policy class on this point, ladies and gentlemen, 'National 2'. The essential warning difference in foreign policy Mitsotakis from the past that the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is that it ceases to run behind developments. He's creating them now. It is also the fact that foreign policy is becoming a field for highlighting the country's comparative advantages. It is an opportunity to stimulate national unity and strengthen national pride. For us all this is the ultimate way of consolidating healthy patriotism. In all this, there's an asterisk, and he's no other than the incomprehensible reactions from the officer's perspective. A friendly advice: Think twice when dealing with national issues. You have a deserving past. Don't be lured by your political extortion. In your agony to gain opposition to existence and keep internal party balances, degrade our national effort. You are losing our national successes. You offer an alibi to the Turkish arguments. I have the headline of YENI SAFAK with me. I read it to you and translate it before I deposit it to the Minutes. He says: "First Prime Minister of Greece, Tsipras: with the agreement with Egypt we gave Turkey what it wanted." I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of the New Democracy, Mr. Mercos Lazaridis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In other words, we have Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis to raise Greece and the leader of SYRIZA, former Prime Minister Tsipras to give arguments to Erdogan.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u160	Shame on you! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u161	But don't worry, we know exactly what the Turks are trying to do with it. We don't get carried away. We are not letting them create a national breach. This breach existed and there's still only one in the classrooms. You had bilingualism as a government: the Kotzia line, the Kammenos line. You have bilingualism or I would say trilingualism better as an opposition. Another line is the fifty three of Tsakalotus, another line is the former Foreign Minister Kotzias, another line is your leader. Hazardous as a government, dangerous and opposition. Ladies and gentlemen of Anti-Population, stop being bipolarized, and I don't mean the term of international relations, but psychology. And let me ask: what exactly do you have a problem with, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population? With the fact that Greece demonstrates the successes after each other? With the fact that our country has strengthened its position as a regional force? With the fact that we have not allowed Turkey to fill the power gap in the Eastern Mediterranean? With the fact that our partners now consider us a trustworthy interlocutor? With the fact that we've succeeded where you failed miserably? With what? It's a rhetorical question. What we are concerned with as a government is that we will continue unreservedly on the line of investment in national unity, not investment in division. We will continue to ensure persistent diplomatic alliances abroad and to cultivate healthy patriotism within, away from warheads. We will continue with the same determination, the same vigilance and maturity in our next moves. We will continue to prevent anyone from opening up a breach of our national interests. We will continue to work and think with national bumpers. And with these choices, we will continue to make every Greek and every Greek proud. I hope that you, too, in the opposition, will decide to follow this choice without asterisks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, I can speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u163	Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, as a parliamentary representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u164	I believe that Mr Lazaridis' position shows how they perceive the call by the minister who was well-preferred and by the Prime Minister for national unity and unity. I think it is regrettable at the moment and unacceptable to hear such words. In other words, trying to get Mr. Lazarides to take the headlines of the Turkish press and come here to the Greek Parliament to accuse the Chief of Officership. A lot more you can't move us to the finger and put on a deserving past, you who in this Chamber two years ago talked about brokers and divided the Greek people. I therefore believe that placement is personal. We deplore it and do not want to believe that it reflects the government and the New Democracy much more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u165	I will now give the floor to the KIC MEP Ms Maria Konnaka for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Who are the government's triumphs of the so-called historic agreements delimiting maritime zones with Italy and partially delimiting EEZs with Egypt? Do they justify the exaggerated reassurance which the government has attempted to create, which both SYRIZA and the Change Movement bet that this kind of agreement reinforces Greece's position against the claims of the Turkish bourgeoisie? Do they justify the myth of the supposedly isolated from the European allies of Turkey? What is certainly confirmed is that both agreements do not serve the people's interests. That's their mark. The reality itself comes irreversibly to break down the reassurance that governments and today and all the previous ones have been cultivating over the supposed protection that our participation in imperialist designs and bazaars provides in our country. Contrary to the initiative of these American-Natural and European imperialists, the solution is being promoted to take the sea zones into account in the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean, in order to unlock the exploitation of the region's energy wealth by the major economic groups in France, Britain, the United States and others. It will be a co-existence, that is, energy co-responsibility, to be precise and not between countries. These forces haggle Greek sovereign rights and play the role of the consul to pull Turkey out of Russia's arms and keep the south-eastern wing of NATO active. In these circumstances, therefore, the agreements which we signed with Italy and Egypt are not only justified because they strengthen the country's negotiating position, on the contrary, they open up a pity of painful compromises without principles, thereby giving rise to the Turkish claims on the basis of reciprocity which they create. The agreement with Italy has opened the way to a number of issues that put the country's sovereign rights at question. For example, this is the agreement on the allocation or recognition, if you like, of the right to fish on Italian fishing vessels in the area from six to twelve nautical miles, in which Greece decided to make use of the right to extend the seabed. Such an agreement, apart from harmful to fishermen operating in the Ionian Sea, also reflects on the Aegean side, when they are already struggling Turkish fishing in Greek territorial waters. It is true, Minister, that the reason you said that Turkish fishing has already carried out such an uncontrolled activity will also apply in this case, so we should consider it a success to be analogous to this side. Government blocs cannot hide the fact that behind these agreements there are studied compromises serving the most centrally compromise with Turkey and one of the components of this compromise which will favour the logic of coexistence is zero or reduced on some islands, during the permanent Turkish pursuits, in complete contrast to Article 121 of the International Convention on the Law of the Sea. So the prediction of a reduced influence on the Strofods and the Dormopod islands also leads to an area that is crucial to the definition of Albania, as is, of course, provided for in the agreement with Egypt, a reduced influence on Crete and zero on the islands south of it. At the same time, the partial delimitation of the EEZ that flies out Kastelorizo and half Rhodes, an area, that is, at the forefront of the Turkish claims, sets the ground for converting the area into a more general bazaar and "grey". Even more dangerous is the fact that different vendors justify such an exception due to the short distance of Kastelorizo from Turkey. Really, where does the distance count stop allowing such exceptions? Can the geographical position of the island really justify reduced rights in relation to the rest of Greece? Have you considered what distance Samos, Chios, Lesvos have from the Turkish coast? Such a debate not only undoes the very foundations of the Law of the Sea, but goes even further. It targets the issues of borders as a whole by strengthening the international conditions that have set them. Such a assumption of a reduced influence on the islands does not exclude the North Aegean islands, which, of course, may, at the moment, not concentrate on the debate, but there is, unfortunately, a bitter experience of how such compromises are exploited as the background, as legalisation for the subsequent claims. The inhabitants of the islands of the northern Aegean, the Greek people as a whole, must not place their expectations in the bazaars of the urban classes from which the people are permanently lost come out, much more when these bazaars develop into the territory of the more general imperialist competitions for which groups will prevail in sharing. Such arrangements do not solve the problems of Turkish border disputes or the delimitation of maritime zones. On the other hand, they are the yeast for the new round of bargaining and controversy and, ultimately, create the ground for new conflicts. The JRC supports the non-change of borders and the conditions that define them. Guarantee for this can only be the collective struggle to remove our country from the dangerous plans in the region, the struggle to release from the imperialist organisations that fuel competition between the two countries. This is the common interest of both the Greek and Turkish people. The islanders also have rich experience of the benefits of the joint action of the two peoples within the framework of the anti-imperialist peaceful movement. So the issues connected with the sovereign rights, the productive wealth of each country cannot be solved as long as they remain involved in the bucket of imperialist competitions. The needs of the peoples of the region, the mutually advantageous cooperation of the countries can only be ensured when the European Union and NATO are released, as well as any other imperialist union with the peoples of housewives in their country, to their advantage, and not to give them to local and foreign predators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, too. We are closing the list of speakers with my fellow Member of the New Democracy, Mr Dimitris Ceridis. Here, Mr. Courides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, how beneficial the two agreements under vote are to the national interest is to be made clear and is evidenced by Turkey's rabies reaction, particularly with regard to the agreement with Egypt. After all, for this reason both agreements gather the approval of the large majority of Parliament, far beyond the government. Things would have been even better, although SYRIZA remained consistent with what he was negotiating and what Alexis Tsipras had said in favour of the partial demarcation agreement with Egypt on 10 June and avoided confusion, I would say if I could also be allowed the self-confidence that the "present". It is clear that'residences' is not a national strategy but a micro-party balance exercise. That is why every argument by Mr Tsipras, beyond their other problems, has been self-determined from the outset by the'represents'. Ladies and gentlemen, an international agreement is also politically judged by its political context. Let us agree that the delay in signing the agreement with Italy, a country with which we have excellent relations, and we participate jointly in the European Union and NATO, can only be taken as a weakness of our political system. Our weakness was about fear of political costs, but also about the misunderstanding of many of them how the international system works. Ladies and gentlemen, international law requires the need to negotiate with neighbouring countries to demarcate EEZ. Without negotiation there is no EEZ delimitation. This means negotiating with third parties who have their own sovereign will. In other words, international law itself provides for a reasoned give and receive and, of course, in the event of failure of international arbitration. Anyone who refuses this basic truth denies demarcation, that is, the safeguarding of our sovereign rights and makes fun of it. At best, he deceives himself, at the worst, consciously deceives public opinion. In short, the choice is not between the agreement under discussion, the agreements under discussion and some better, but between them and the non-agreement that means not guaranteeing our sovereign rights. The agreement with Italy does not simply close an unjust openness, but marks a change of page in our foreign policy. Let everyone understand it, and especially Ankara, who seems to have been surprised that we have a new Greece that with confidence and calmness takes initiatives and defends dynamically, not just rhetorically, the national interest by signing agreements and alliances. This also includes the current strong announcement by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis of the extension of our territorial waters to twelve miles in the Ionian Sea, an extension which, of course, starts from the Ionian Sea, but we fully retain the right to extend, wherever else and, of course, to the Aegean under international law, so we consider it appropriate. As far as the agreement with Egypt is concerned - in order to close it fully and adequately - we must take into account the risks that we have overcome. Ladies and gentlemen, Egypt was very close to signing an EEZ definition agreement with Turkey in 2013 against our own sovereign rights. The friends and now Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan's defenders of Muslim brothers from General al - Sisi were brought back and the signature was prevented at the last hour. Since then, Turkey has provided pressing land and water for the signature of Egypt, and more than thirty more sea spaces than this Greek Egyptian agreement provides for. It is worth noting that Egypt has no islands and, therefore, it has had every reason to come close to the Turkish position that the islands have no EEZ to receive more EEZ than International Law provides. It is therefore very important that Egypt, given the Turkish counter-proposal, is basically drafted according to the Greek position which is also the position of international law. Given the political instability, which is afflicting the entire Arab world, it is obvious that we have had every interest in being the accelerating of an agreement with Egypt and I wish we accelerating with Libya in the past, too, in contrast to another agreement, which is taking place in the Asylum Opposition, which others were or should have been the accelerating ones. In conclusion, with the two agreements being voted on Greece reserves its sovereign rights in a marine space of more than 100 thousand square kilometres, significantly increasing its geostrategic footprint. In addition, we remove the permanent Turkish argument that Greece has not signed an agreement with any neighbouring country and that is why we, and not them, are wrong. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis also disproves this argument and demonstrates the fact that, in the Eastern Mediterranean, we can peacefully resolve any differences we make on the basis of international law, which is annoying Turkey very much. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me now a wider crisis over Turkish aggression and its proper recovery strategy. The credible deterrence of Turkey is firstly our Greek case. We must first rely on our own powers and we must have powers. Everything that keeps our economy established doesn't help. We must end with the pathogens and populism that has troubled us in post-government and led to bankruptcy in 2010 and again in 2015. Upgrading our Armed Forces cannot only be a rhetorical invocation. To have substance, all responsible political forces, in particular, who believe in its necessity to determine how and where the necessary resources will be saved. I now come to the international coalition for Turkey's recovery, which is trying to destabilise the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East as a whole. The coalition the anti-Turkish is claiming every day. It includes most Arabs, Israel, Cyprus, Greece, France, Austria and many others. The 'Turkey problem' is very great and it concerns many other countries than us. The crucial thing is that we take advantage of this coalition rather than the opposite. The ideal is that Turkey's problem should be resolved by all those who deal with it and not just by us. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And I come to America and Europe. The anti-Turkish turn in the United States is growing. Anyone who monitors the processes in Congress understands that. So is Europe. With delays, recurring, with efforts to bridging, but slowly but consistently realised in Europe that Turkey is drawing a new course and is taking a anti-Western, anti-European road, and basically Asian - Euro-Asia. Count moves last month. Erdogan congratulates Lucashenko on his re-election, which we in Europe do not recognise. Kalin swears Biden, the next possible president of the United States. Cavusoglu is crucified with Madour in Caracas. That reminds us of something, but let me not expand. Erdogan welcomes the Hamas leadership that the West sees as terrorists. Turkey leaves the Istanbul Convention on the Protection of Women. Erdogan personally threatens the United Arab Emirates by interrupting relations because they dared to enter into relations with Israel. Of course, Agia Sophia and the Chora Monastery are turned into mosques, insulting civilized humanity. So, in the medium to long term, the fronts are being formed and Turkey is on the other side. Things seem to be clear, especially as we see with the Arabs and Israel approach and the abyss that divides both with Erdogan. This crisis is the mid-term between the American elections and the election of the successor Angela Merkel. That is why determination and coolness, old and wicked, "Achilles" and "Ulysses" are needed. And believe me is "Ulysses" which the Turks most fear for. This proves their whispering for Greece that is being paralyzed by Europe, while Erdogan is constantly creating new enemies. Greek-Turkish is a Euro-Turkish problem, as the late Constantine Karamanlis had anticipated and anticipated, with his close partner Petros Molyviatis, the founder of our prolongation, who founded it on the basis of his disdain for populism, especially in national issues. So we must go, with knowledge and understanding of the wider data that are rapidly reorientated, but not impulsively, calculated, without sentimentality, focusing on the national interest and not on the traders who invest in the unchangeable public opinion, with confidence and coolness, with a genuine patriotism based on the eternal values and the defence not only of our national interest, but also of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u169	Minister, you have the floor to close this very important debate today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u170	For a long time, Mr President. I know that ladies and gentlemen are tired. I won't be long. Just a few things need to be said as a result. First of all - there is no one in the Chamber at the moment from Mera25 - I would like to say that the function of characterising Exclusive Economic Lives only by exploiting hydrocarbons and excluding them from green development and from various sources of energy that exist in these maritime areas is a huge logical leap that they did not see why it is being done. They didn't understand. Why does any country qualify for Exclusive Economic Living mean that it has been divorced from green development and directed only at hydrocarbons? Perhaps this will explain to us sometime. What was said - what the Anglo-Saxons say Silver Bullet, the glorious solution to all problems - the convening of an international conference of countries around the eastern Mediterranean, the government has no objection. It is one of the things that could even think and analyse in order not to tell you what he thinks and analyses. However, let us not have too much expectations, to the extent that President Erdogan does not recognise the Republic of Cyprus and does not recognise the agreements which the Republic of Cyprus has concluded with Egypt, with Israel, with Lebanon. Why do you understand that the scope for such a conference is limited to the isolation of Turkey? This reminds us of a vicious circle, we will do the whole round and go back to where we are, to the isolation of Turkey. But of course everything matters. A number of colleagues have also spoken. I want to make it clear: the framework for discussion with Turkey is, remains and remains international law. This is the time-consuming position of all Greek governments and you will allow me to tell you that there is no other position. We are, of course, in favour of dialogue not under the pressure regime, but always under international law and always in order to resolve the difference that we have with Turkey, the Exclusive Economic Zone and the Overseas Sea Zones, and also with a single geographical space in the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean, not as a disintegrated space, separately from each other. This has been cleared up in Turkey. It is also clear - and I think there is no doubt - that the closure of the tricks takes precedence over the extension of the territorial waters. There is no question of that, because something Mr Muszalas said earlier, to clarify it. That was the position of the previous government. I found your paper, Mr. Catrugale. It was absolutely useful. The same geographer you used - not to say names - we used a highly qualified scientist, too. Of course, it takes precedence to close the tricks and then follow the territorial waters. I would like to make it clear about the Ionian Sea because we were criticised, and indeed Mr Kumucaku's statements were also used, who was not in the Chamber to answer them. It will allow me, therefore, in the absence of me to fill the gap in his absence and say that Mr Koumoutsakos has been placed on the extension of territorial waters without an exclusive economic zone, without an agreement on this. At the moment, the facts are completely different and the government follows that logic. And I would suggest that you have been given a mandate to start the work of oceanographs so that we can also expand the territorial waters within the exclusive Economic Zone that we have concluded with Egypt. And that's what's gonna happen. For the other areas that we do not have an exclusive economic zone, we shall proceed to the extent that this is possible in negotiations, and from that point on we shall also proceed to such extensions. There were also some ironic comments about the presence of General Hufftar in Athens. It is very easy to iron and it is too much to iron from high and retrospective. What I have to say is that the absence of the country because of the economic crisis by many allegedly, such as the Libyan crisis and the Syrian crisis cost the country too expensive. The country has received unacceptable behaviour from the administration of Tripoli, and the country has not been internally drafted in Libya, it has been drafted with legality. And the only legitimacy in Libya is currently represented by parliament, which is the only elected authority. Because anyone who bothers to read the Skirat agreement and the decisions of the United Nations Security Council will find that the mandate for the administration of Tripoli has expired since 2017. The fact that the international community accepts Mr Sarage as a interlocutor is that there is no total vacuum. However, the country has also been active in the "success" - in introductory terms, because until a truce we have reached the Berlin process, it has played its part in this direction. I myself have been to Libya at least twice, perhaps three. I'm a little beginning to remember how many times I've been to every place. And I think that this has always been the national interest and that is the common perception of the country's political system. The country could not be absent, and similar efforts are also being made to participate in the resolution of the Syrian crisis, and that is why I have repeatedly met with the ombudsman, Mr. Petersen, United Nations. Speaking of the turbulent memorandum again, I would like to tell you that the opposition has in fact criticised us for lack of strategy - that was the peak, Mr Rousopoulos said quite rightly - I tried to answer to what extent I could answer. The opposition could be a little more generous with the government. For example, he could note that while the turbulent memorandum was signed last autumn, until today, it has not been posted. It has not been posted next week to meet the Secretary-General of the United Nations on behalf of the Greek Republic, on behalf of the European Union, but also on behalf of international legality, I must thank him for that, because you remember how many times the post of this memorandum had been announced. Currently, the reality is different, because there is the illegal Turkish memorandum and the legitimate Greek Egyptian agreement. We're talking in completely different circumstances. Imagine this had been posted since the autumn of last year. As far as Mr Tsavosoglou is concerned, you know that I, as my colleague, Mr Varvitsiotis, are concerned with Mr Tsavosoglou, have a common course of years with Mr Tsavosoglou. And many times I regret what it expresses as thoughts. In fact, yesterday he accused me of something about my level, I don't know. When we meet, I hope she will clarify it to me, but I think she chooses the evidence that suits him every time. Both the Greek-Egyptian agreement and the Greek-Italian agreement have one basic principle, that the islands have the same rights as the mainland, as defined in the relevant UNCLOS article. Turkey does not accept that at all. Not at all. Turkey claims that the islands have no right over territorial waters, you know that. So if Turkey goes along with the concept of legality, that the islands also have an exclusive economic zone, then they also have a continental shelve, that is, of course, a very positive development. This does not mean, however, that it is a flaw in the Greek Egyptian agreement or the Greek agreement. It means that Turkey accedes to the understanding of the signatory countries of UNCLOS and the perception of countries that respect international law and will be absolutely welcome to it. I wish, I wish! That is what I told him and said to him, when he made a similar comment in the Greek agreement, I told him: 'Come and talk on this basis', and I am making the same comment now when both agreements are ratified, that Turkey should come, after the challenges have been stopped, to discuss on this basis, the basis that the islands have rights according to the rights that the inland country has. But please do not mention these positions and do not interpret them as defects in the agreement. Mr. Muzalas accused us of embarrassing. Okay, he's not in the Chamber, I respect him anyway. I am simply saying that I think it is a little unfair to be accused of being awkward by the one who makes deals and being considered uncomfortable or by the machiner who has not been able to conclude the agreements. I also have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that I was impressed by the last name added to the "PARON" by Mr Muzalas. It's the first time in my life I've heard of it. Referred to in ‘Macedonia’. I have to tell you that it would be interesting to explain to us what the "fighting INVESTMENT" means in contrast to the simple "FARM". In any case, Mr President, I thank you for your tolerance and for you and my fellow Members. What must be kept, regardless of whether we wish, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, had voted for the agreement, because it is obvious from the way you have been placed, you also approve it with Egypt, and the other one with Italy that you are voting on. But it is clear that there is widespread support for the government's foreign policy. It is also clear that both within the Chamber and beyond that, the style of dialogue between the political parties means that the political parties are aware of the extraordinary criticality of the moments. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle and the articles of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs bill: "Preparation of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Italian Republic on the demarcation of their respective Marine Lives" and we enter into its vote. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, two articles, the farewell article and the whole. Not to leave the rapporteurs, we have the second vote today, with the exception of the article on which the roll-call vote was taken. We're going to second vote on the agreement with Egypt. The rapporteurs should, moreover, stay in order to sign the Minutes. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u172	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u173	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u174	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Undertaking of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Italian Republic on the demarcation of their respective Marine Lives’ was accepted by a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u175	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u176	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle and the articles of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs bill: "Definition of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt on the delimitation of the Exclusive Economic Zone between the two States". An application for a roll-call vote has been submitted for the first article by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, which will be held tomorrow at 3 p.m. tomorrow, as agreed by this House and in accordance with the additional agenda that has been distributed to you. Today the beginning, the second and the end of the bill will be passed. We therefore enter the vote on the principle of Article 2 of the draft law, Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union: 'Undertaking of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt on the delimitation of the Exclusive Economic Zone between the two States'. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, an article and a farewell article. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u177	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u178	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u179	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Application of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt on the delimitation of the Exclusive Economic Zone between the two States’ was accepted in principle by a majority. The second and the Chambers were also accepted by a majority of them. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-26-S1-commons.u180	With the consent of the House at 21.35', the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, August 27, 2020 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and b) legislative work: the resolution of the first and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, "Structuring the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt on the delimitation of the Exclusive Economic Zone between the two States".
