ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 15-10-20th authorisation, the Minutes of Thursday 15 October 2020, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2019/904 on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Monday 19 October 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Mr Athanasios Davakis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Athanasios Davakis on her excellent report. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 36/9-10-2020 of the Athens Radical Left Coalition, Christofordakis, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on "Explanations of experts committees for the reopening of the educational structures of the country". 3. The Question No 31/6-10-2020 by the Vice-President of Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “The Panarcadian Hospital Tripolis is running.” 4. The question by No 46/12-10-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Exemption of newly appointed teachers from breeding permits is unfair". 5. The question by No 32/6-10-2020 of the Greek Parliamentary of Serres Mr. Konstantinos Boubas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Unjustity against the Greek fighter of Cyprus". 6. The question by number 41/9-10-2020, by Mr.Athens, Mr. Angelikos Adamopoulos, to the Minister for Health, on the subject: "Discrimination of the state against Mr. Siachin Serif - Deficiencies and problems in health". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skourletis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Ineffective measures in the care units of the elderly". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 49/12-10-20 by the Member of Parliament, Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The abolition of an automatic mechanism to increase the retirement age on the basis of life expectancy". 3. The question asked by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: “The redundancies and obstacles to trade union activity in the company of production and trading of optical goods “S.A. Bairamoglou S.B.E.’. 4. The question raised by Mr Angelikos Adamopoulou with reference to the Minister of Health, dated 42/9-10-2020, is: "Serious problems of subsistence and personnel management of ambulances PESH and EKAB with tragic consequences for patients". 5. The question by No 58/12-10-2020 of the Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition, Christos Giannoulis, to the Minister of Health, on "Direct awards of the COVID diagnostic tests -19 from the hospitals of Thessaloniki to private workshops". 6. The Question No 59-12-10-20 by MP Kilkis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Irene - Helen Agathopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Expansion of clean-up workers' contracts". We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House in writing of the following: ‘In the context of parliamentary scrutiny, on Friday, 16 October 2020, the topical and urgent questions to be debated are as follows: No 40/9-10-2020, No 44/12-10-2020 and No 56/12-10-2020 on topical questions will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon and Mr Adonni Georgiadis. Question No 39/9-10-2020 and Question No 53/12-10-2020 will be answered by the Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Styliani Mendonis. Question No 38/9-10-20 will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Karamanlis. Questions Nos 33/8-10-2020 and 50/12-10-2020 will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Dimitrios Economou. Questions Nos 30/5-10-2020 and 45/12-10-2020 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Eleftherios Aygeakis.’ Before we begin with Mr Voloudakis' question to Mr Karamanlis, I would like to say that the Question No 43/10-10-20 of the Member of the Merra25 Mr Kleonas Gregoriadis to the Minister for Civil Protection and the Question No 52/12-10-2020 by Mr Kritonas - Ilias Arseni to the Minister for Civil Protection - will not be debated in consultation with the Member of Parliament with the Minister. We begin with the first under number 38-9-10-2020 in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Manousou Voloudakis, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Border of North Road Crete (BOAK)". The question will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Konstantinos Karamanlis. Mr. Voloudakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, when you came to Crete at the beginning of the year, you set a timetable for the implementation of the NAOK, a timetable which, in general, despite the slight delay that the pandemic brings, is kept from what I hear - and I would ask you to confirm this - a timetable for the auction in 2021. As the time comes, everything needs to be clarified about this project, which has so much trouble with Crete. First of all, I come to the funding that is the main theme of my question. We will have 19 billion in grants from the Recovery Fund, which can also be used for public investment. To understand this size, until now every year for public investment in recent years we have less than 7 billion and now we have 19 billion available, which can go to public investment. This money must be directed at projects that are large, obviously - we will not scatter them into projects and workers - and projects that can quickly and effectively absorb resources. I believe that the BOAK is primarily a project that can absorb such funding. In all the published information on your design, indeed the BOAK is included. However, we do not have any formal notice from you on this matter, which I would ask you to do, and to explain to us what level. My personal view, Minister, is that now, with this money available for the Public Investment Programme, the public can take over all the cost of financing, with private funding being just operating and maintenance costs afterwards. So it will be much lower the toll, the cost, and the benefit to Crete will be obvious. However, I believe that it is important to benefit the country as a whole as a whole, as a project is financed, which has been pending for many years and which can certainly absorb the resources to be planned for it without causing problems of responses and loss of resources. More I'm going to report to my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Voloudakis, first of all, I would like to thank you for your question, because first of all we are given the opportunity to have an honest dialogue on what the current government has received at study level for the BOC and on the proposal that you have to use as a tool for the Recovery Fund. I will explain to you how problematic this has been and for what reasons we can or can't. I think, in fact, that it will be revealing the facts that I will give you, to stop this improvisation that exists not only for Crete, but also for other issues, when we have the previous government trying many times to shape a situation and create an image that has nothing to do with reality. As you recall - we have said so many times - what we received from the previous government was a pencil on the map. I've said it many times. It was a competition, Mr Voloudakis, an expression of interest that had no - none - studying maturity and no indicative content of the project. So speaking of funding for the BOAK, let me stand on the financial model that they had done for 2018 and which, as you quite rightly say in your question, only concerned the Chania - Hersonissos section. First, the study and construction department, with the 2018 proposal, due to the reduced geometric characteristics, went to 944 million euros for the track I told you, which means speed calculation at 80 km and without any provision for the construction and upgrading of existing bypasses of Chania, Rethymno and Heraklion. Second, there was the installation of real tolls. Attention! Tolls were for all users and not what they told us about tourists, because you remember there was a talk in Crete that Cretans would not pay tolls, but tourists would pay the tolls. So let's read a little of Community law to see what it says on this issue. Thirdly, there would be variable payments because, as we have discussed many times, other payments would be made in the form of tolls, because, as we all know, we also want to have operating costs which would not be covered by tolls. Fourthly, we are talking about a public financial contribution of only EUR 472 million. What did we do? We proceeded with the auctioning and awarding of contracts for all geotechnical research and testing, so that we can finally have studying maturity and be able to auction the second phase of the project by the end of 2021. At this point I would like to note that the archaeological documentation report from the Directorate responsible for Culture was submitted to the Ministry in May 2020. On the basis of this report, comments have been made on the locations of engraving and we are in cooperation with Mrs Mendoni and with the services of the Ministry of Culture, so that in the next two months we have cleared the final development with the approval of archaeology and can provide all these geotechnical studies to the Ministry of the Environment to take the environmental impact study. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, because time passes and I shall have my second language. What studies have we done that are necessary, as I told you, for environmental impact studies? Firstly, we did studies on landfilling, topographic background studies, on hydraulic works in the construction sections of the BOAK, on specific ecological evaluation, on the side network. All this, Mr. Voloudakis, move fast. This has not been done for five years. All of what I'm saying to you now had not been done. All the government did before leaving was make a call for expressions of interest that is the first phase of the competition and which in fact did not help much. Secondly, we move on to finalization of the engraving and the predicted speed from eighty kilometers is a hundred kilometers. We proceed towards costing the infringements to be made for the existing bypasses in Chania, Rethymnon and Heraklion. Thirdly, we plan to activate the option for the Chania - Kissamos piece. So, right now, the chunk of Chania - Kissamos comes into the project and the price of the numbers I told you will go almost for the piece of the construction study, 1.5 billion euros and along with the side projects will reach 2 billion euros. In my dentext I will tell you the financial instruments we are considering and why it would be almost impossible for the entire work of the BOK to be integrated into the Reconstruction Fund, but what is the proposal we will put forward to increase the public's financial contribution, the so-called 'grants' for this road, so that both tolls are reasonable and this work at last to begin. It is a project that has been delayed and has troubled the island - I think - for many years now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u5	Here, Mr Voloudakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for what you have said so far. You do well to analyse what lies circulating in the public debate are still in relation to what happened in the past five years. We in Crete hear these lies and in many versions that do not get here at the centre of the public dialogue. Nevertheless, Minister, the citizens are now listening to all this with great scepticism and they are interested in what is happening from now on. It is a central issue, and the implementation time and the precise definition and the way in which it is financed. For the funding you remember that last year I made a proposal for public funding by SNPs and ANFAs, which now, as long as the Recovery Fund is available, makes no sense, as much more money is available than another source. I hear what you're saying. But I would like you to tell me what the design is or tell me when you will tell us where this public funding can reach us. I insist on public financing of construction costs, because Crete as an island is charged in many ways with the cost of islands and, in any case, is entitled, after all, to the implementation of a motorway and a special care, which will facilitate the construction itself. Public funding can shorten to a certain extent the implementation times, because at least the question of setting up a banking consortium is coming out of the process. And it is clear that even so, there will still be some toll, but it will be very reduced because it will only concern maintenance and operation. The cost of tolls in the mainland seems very high if one moves it to Crete's data and this has to be answered. I am pleased to note that you stress the work of Chania - Kissamos, which was practically out. I'd like you to tell us if there was any study. I know for nothing there was no study, but some points were a little more advanced as a pre-process. The piece Chania - Kissamos put it back like a patch in the whole process and I would like you to tell us about it. I would also like you to tell us what the choice is for engraving at a point that had been discussed in the Region of Crete with the participation of your Ministry and the municipalities, in the section of Eastern Apokorona between Chania and Rethymnon. I would like to take this opportunity to ask Mrs Mendoni for particular attention to the points of the studies you have told us that they relate to the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture to run them quickly, Minister, because the work has been delayed for many years. In conclusion, I would just like to say this: we must now speak to the citizens on a regular and structured basis about the course of this work, in order to prepare for this work. Because the issue begins to be complex with studies of your own, studies and permits from the Ministry of the Environment, we must, Minister, until the time of the tender from now on, have an official report from the two co-legislative ministries on where the process is going, what is going on, to stop the spool on the one hand, but also to understand how the citizens are going and everyone responsible to take a stand against this important work for Crete and the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u7	Mr Karamanlis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I can assure you that our cooperation with Ms. Mendonis is really perfect, not only in the part concerning the BOAK, but also in the matter with the Thessaloniki metro and in general...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u9	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u10	You may disagree. Democracy, Mrs. Readstopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u11	Let's stay between the two, Mr. Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u12	Anyone can agree and disagree. I think that another of SYRIZA's great lies and political frauds, like BOAK, is the Thessaloniki metro. And everyone knows that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u13	I can't allow you, Minister, to tell me...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u14	Please don't change the procedure, Minister. Do not refer to other Members who happen to be in the Chamber right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u15	Whenever Mrs. Anagnostopoulou wants, she can ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u16	Well, he'll ask you a question and you'll talk about it. We're wasting time. Mrs. Mendoni is waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u17	Now see the lies and the political deception. All BOAK would have entered the Fund, if SYRIZA had done his job properly, i.e. if he had a curriculum maturity so that he could join as a public project, Mr Voloudakis. To enter the Recovery Fund all the 2 billion-dollar project, it would be done as a public project. We don't have any more sense, do we? And we would put tolls for the 25 to 30m euros each year we need to keep the road. We could do this if we had the curriculum maturity needed to open a public project, which is curriculum maturity at a final stage rather than for a concession contract or for a PPP there that requires pre-students. Therefore, the fact that we cannot go all the way through the reconstruction fund has to do with political deception and the fact that for five years they have been mocking your fellow people, Mr Voludakis. That's to say things in this room with their name. What do we do now? You will tell me: 'But, well we cannot use the 19 billion we have, to help such an important project that has been delayed - the truth is - so many years and has not gone ahead?' So what we are proposing to do and these proposals are also given by the Ministry to the Presidency of the Government, where they will manage all the proposals there - because that is how it has to be done, we will enter a negotiation procedure with the European Commission, not meaning that our proposals will be immediately accepted by the European Commission - is to increase the public's financial contribution, which I hope, from EUR 800 million to EUR 1 billion. Another misunderstanding that exists and I think we need to resolve it is the following. Money to build the BOAK we have. Our problem is not to get money from the ESRB. It belongs to the trans-European networks, we can use several financial instruments. Our problem - and that's what the Cretans have to hear - is not where we'll find the money to build it. That's what we got. Our problem is who will maintain this road, and our problem is from the moment it becomes a concession contract who will pay for the operation of the road. So the problem is that and this is the difficult chopstick that has not been solved for too many years. How will this road be maintained once traffic loads are not enough on tolls to cover both operating costs and maintenance costs? So here we need to increase the public's financial contribution, and this is perhaps a proposal to put this part into the Recovery Fund, so that the tolls are more reasoned, as you quite rightly say, but tolls will come in. Because here there was another political deception of the previous government that they would not get into tolls, and in the concession contract, it is a given fact that they would go to to tolls and the price of tolls and they would get shadow tolls, because the truth is there was no choice. I think we need to look the people of Crete in the eyes and this has been done by the government, and above all, the Prime Minister who comes from this island and said, ignoring the political cost, that, as across Europe and throughout Greece, there are tolls and the user pays, so in Crete we should understand that they will get tolled. So I think it is on a very good road and I will close, agreeing with you that I am at your disposal every month to announce the stages of the competition. The Ministry of Culture, together with the Ministry of Infrastructure, thinks that it will be ready in the next two months to complete this - let me be corrected by Mrs Mendoni, if this is not the case - a report of archaeological documentation so that we can then draw up and give the Ministry of the Environment all the studies to draw up an environmental impact study. The second phase of the tender, Mr. Voloudakis, will be within 2021. The ICM, the environmental impact study, will be submitted by us at the end of 2020, at the end of December with the beginning of November. We will testify to all the necessary studies, since we will have been in consultation with the Services of the Ministry of Culture. The Ministry of the Environment needs at least six to eight months to get the environmental license. Therefore, as we have committed ourselves, in 2021 the second phase of the tender will be auctioned with a curriculum maturity so that we can move very rapidly towards the construction of this road, which is perhaps one of the last major road networks to be completed by this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u18	We are therefore moving on to the second debate under No 39/9-10-2020 on the first-round question of the Achaia Parliamentary Party of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Athanasias (Syria) Anagnostopoulou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "Support measures for artists and workers in the field of culture". Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, Minister! We asked for the following by letter to the President of Parliament on 11 September 2020, at a joint meeting of the Committees on Social and Cultural Affairs, with the presence of yours, the Minister of Health, an infectious and representative of the artists. In our letter we said that there was already a long delay in the definition of health protocols so that the cultural sites could operate in the winter season. We had called and asked for health protocols to be taken into account by the outbreak or not of the pandemic and, of course, for similar support measures to be discussed. No one has responded, despite my repeated disgrace to the President of Parliament. I even spoke to you on the phone, Minister. I sent a personal letter to Mr. Kikilia, because no one answered in his office. No one has responded to a request which I believe is in line with the democratic process. Just last Friday - of course, outside Parliament - the health protocols were announced by Mr. Chardalis, which provides for 30% completeness of the music, spectacles, etc. for the winter season, reviewing every 15 days, depending on the pandemic. I'm not going to comment on this. I think that all citizens and, above all, workers in culture have understood. I will not therefore comment on the fact that the democratic process has been completely overlooked, the parliamentary process, where there would also be a wide debate on the subject, because we are all struggling for the future of its culture and its people in that country. I'm going to put this aside, but, Minister, we have a phenomenal phenomenon ahead of us. The health protocols are announced, nothing is announced at all as a support measure for this reduced completeness of showrooms, hearings, etc. And I ask myself: at least at the same time or immediately after that, has the support measures not been processed according to completeness - sixty, fifty, thirty - so that they can be adjusted according to variable completeness, there is a order of magnitude? There's no such order of size. You told us about subsidisation of positions. That doesn't mean anything at all. Madam Minister, throughout the pandemic, we have seen one thing that the Ministry of Culture has responded with great delay. It reacts with very low reflexes against what is happening in the area of culture. I'm listening. I heard you yesterday in your reply to the current question by my colleague Mrs Christidou. But I hear you everywhere and in your interviews recycle amounts of support for culture. Do you want to see these amounts one by one? If this joint committee had been made, we would have seen these amounts. But now you will allow me, Mr President, to talk about these, because we have no room for it. We had no more ground for parliamentary procedure. First of all, we had a late reaction from the Ministry of Culture. You announced on 7 May 100 million euros for culture. You yourself have admitted that the support instruments - EUR 800 plus EUR 534 for May - benefited 30 000 workers in culture, as you said the day before yesterday in the reply to Mrs Christidou. Sometimes you've said forty thousand. But I say to you - you have admitted it too - that the people who work in culture are more than a hundred thousand. I'd say two thousand. But more than a hundred thousand. Where have they benefited? That's the first. Secondly, exceptional cultural grants. I sat down and saw them thoroughly one by one. Madam Minister, there's a mistake here. I will not say that your colleague, Mr Karamanlis, lied and cheated three or four times. I won't speak with that tongue. I don't get used to it. But I will say that before the 2020 budget pandemic, 15 million were cut from the Ministry of Culture budget. So the grants you gave and some of them in large part have not reached the final recipients, i.e., the artists, the creators. I'd like a list of how many sums and what artists they arrived to. Not me. The parliamentary procedure requires it. It would be very useful. So these 15 million grants, the whole of Greece, a culture, etc., have not arrived anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u20	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, find a way to shorten.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u21	I'm short. I'll be right over. Madam Minister, we see a violent poverty of the people of culture, marginalisation and exclusion from the culture of large groups of workers. There is talk around the world about how we will leave the neoliberal policies that condemned the three public goods that are health, education and culture and we will go to a new deal for culture so that we can keep a culture for all citizens where creation will be reproduced so individual artists, small businesses, places and people who carry culture from generation to generation. We don't see that thing. I ask you, and I will come back later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u22	The rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u23	My two questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u24	The Minister knows. Eight minutes you've been talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, we have not had the opportunity. We had asked for a great debate to take place on 11 September.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u26	I don't have any disagreement with what you're saying, but what am I supposed to do? Time is specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u27	I'm sorry, but culture requires that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u28	Culture requires a lot of things. That's not all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u29	I ask you: tell me the amount of budget allocated to the Ministry of Culture to commit to subsidisation and what do you mean by subsidisation of positions? Secondly, what have you done with the GOD's requests, especially with regard to the CSM, for the EUR 534? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u30	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you started with cases, you mixed up too many things that seem to be under the same umbrella, but they have answered thousands of times. You come back and come back to yourself. Obviously, there is a difficulty in accepting this government, because when we talk about measures to support workers in any sector other than the relevant Ministry, there is always the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour, so there is the entire government. So here, in the case of our own, you obviously do not want to admit it, and that is why you are constantly repeated in statements and questions that the government supposedly ignored the people of culture. And yet, Mrs Anagnostopoulou, this government immediately after the pandemic began, in March 2020, took the first steps for the people of culture, because it is foreseeable and there is no reason for it to be submitted again, but if you want us to gather them together and give them to you, together we have them from the Ministry of Finance, the first funds allocated within the framework of horizontal support. It's not words, it's numbers. It is not a question of saying that you want to do my utmost, as it were, two hundred thousand workers in the field of culture. Studies have shown that they are about ninety thousand, but that's not even proven by the record. This government took the very big radical and reformist measure to ask for the registration of cultural professionals and professionals. That is not where these figures come from, and that is something that needs to be considered and if something should be discussed. Why is that? Because it has been known that the landscape of culture for decades has been unpapered. It has been known for decades that there has been huge legal diversity of labour relations, which is due to too many factors, one of which is the very nature of cultural activities as a seasonal, many times even few-day or even few-time. So all this forms a landscape which could be cleared through the registration of professionals in the register. However, as a place you reacted and reacted to all the measures between them and the register. So, let me start with what you said about health care that it is almost incomprehensible to ask and complain about the Ministry of Culture about health protocols and measures, while you know very well that the Ministry of Culture can talk, but health protocols and measures are taken by the relevant ministries, which are the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Ministry of Health. You also know very well that we said that within September the winter protocols would be announced. However, the epidemiological data, as they were burdened with as early as August, did not allow this communication to be made so early precisely because the data were changing every day. And the government comes in and announces by the State Secretary of State for Civil Protection last Friday, what applies all over the world to epidemiological levels and places in culture, having exhausted all dialogue, the possibilities, which provide for the operation of the theatres, the artistic arts and cinemas with certain percentages. This is happening all over the world, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou. Foreign rates in European countries are no more than 25% to 30%. Most of them are closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u32	Madam Secretary, I didn't ask about the health protocols.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u33	You come and you say and you denounce it. Already, for a month now, there has been a specific regulation that provides that EUR 534 - is v. 7222 in Article 20- will be given to the people of culture that are registered for September and October, with the possibility of both coming months, November and December, if necessary. This has been announced before protocols. The process and corrections of the register that we made, in cooperation with cultural professionals, have been made before last Friday, announced by the protocols. Yesterday, in fact, it was also extended to the extent that is legally practicable, in order to register more people in the register, precisely to get more people EUR 534. So you cannot say that everything happens after Friday. The question of subsidisation of posts, to say it, has obviously worked and we will be announcing it with the co-legislative ministries in the next few days. Also, about the climate you are trying to create, that there is no culture, this week, from Wednesday to today and the weekend, they become a bunch of premiers. They open the theatres, people go to the theater. So try to pass a grim landscape, with one single purpose: Prove that this government does nothing. And the second is to cover your own inappropriateness for five years. Because if you really were interested in the world of culture, for at least five years you would try to correct the bad texts. You didn't do any of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u34	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u35	Madam Minister, you have not responded to anything at all and that is what you are doing at all times. Instead of saying about the five years ago, which I will tell you, it would be nice to tell us what has happened and what will be done in particular. Madam Minister, we're not pushing you. People who work in culture are pressing and Civic Opposition has this role. I don't know if that's what you like or you don't like. That's how parliamentary democracy is. So I, too, and my colleagues in the Civilian Representation must convey to Parliament the voice of those whom we represent. We represent the people's will. So, let this be clear, that we are not coming here to pressure you or show that culture is not working. I won't say what we did and what we didn't do. But I will tell you one thing and I want a concrete answer, because you have never given a concrete answer. In what we did not do was spiritual and related rights. You know that it is a great source of support for artists, a rightful source of support for artists, musicians, those involved in music, these intellectual and related rights. Has the committee of collective management bodies been here as early as May? Did he send a letter? Did two-three meetings take place? Has the doctors' committee been formed to consider the matter? He had requests: Firstly, copyright should be attributed which has not been given due to Lockdown. To match the corresponding period of 2019. Nothing happened. Secondly, the money should be given by state bodies to copyright and related rights. Nothing happened. Thirdly, the institutional protection of copyright and related rights by broadcasting, which do not render what corresponds to copyright. Fourthly, aid should be granted to collective management organisations. Fifth and most important, Minister - and here it seems the policy of a state and a government - in France do you know what they have done? The famous "flexicurity". Not for industrial relations, like you do, but for free competition. They donated the national tradition, that is, French creation. What have we done for this to strengthen Greek creation, if you want me to be very analytical? And I'll tell you. SYRIZA has tabled proposals. Unfortunately, I can't read them all. I would like, Minister, to make a committee - and I will ask again - where we will discuss the support measures, what has been submitted by the Civic Opposition. That is how I understand the parliamentary procedure and not statements and interviews, which are legitimate, but which do not lead anywhere. Madam Minister, there is a great risk that many people in culture - this autonomous world, small businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises, but also larger businesses - can be marginalised by culture. I see with great grief support measures taken by other countries. I see the Netherlands with an equivalent population. You will tell me the Netherlands does not have the same GDP as Greece. I agree. It is only that we formulate that it is the heavy industry culture. I see Ireland. I won't compare to Germany and those countries. With a corresponding population size, I'll compare. It is not here to oppose Dedicated Opposition with Government. It is to respond to the anxiety of all of this world. And I think you understand that, too. I'll pass it on to you. There was in England, Mr President - it is worth listening to - an advertising campaign how Fatima from a dancer from the lyric scene of the classical ballet will become cyber security, that is, that people must leave culture. After an outcry, of course, advertising was withdrawn. So, apart from the SYRIZA support measures - a Progressive Alliance which I would like to discuss - I propose that there should be a broadcasting campaign - because you tell me that the theatres are being opened, a lot will not be opened, and I will be happy to open as much as possible - where the health protocols will show people the incentive to go. Because they want to go, but they're scared. Fear to go away. This famous list of Petsa can finally be used somewhere to create safety and certainty for the workers. You know the scenery, you know the black labor, you know all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u36	Mrs. Mendoni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Anagnostopoulou, the campaign you are saying is already preparing, but not as you wish, or as it sounds, we will spend huge sums. The campaign is being prepared as a social message and you'll see it in the next few days. But the reality is that the world is not afraid, as you are trying to say, to go to the theater and to the cinema. In the days that have worked this week, the fullness of 30% in most cases is ensured and this is something very positive. We must not ignore that. Because if we ignore it, so we create and develop fearful links to those who want it, but they may be afraid.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u38	Mrs. Mendoni, don't falsify my words! You do it all the time!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u39	I'm not falsifying anything! I'm not isolating anything you say, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos. But it is not possible for you to constantly observe data.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u40	I want answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u41	You said earlier that I referred to 100 million in May. More than 100 million have been allocated, Mrs. Anagnastopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u42	Show them to us!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u43	I have no problem showing you. Repeat and repeat constantly that the 2020 budget was reduced by 12 million compared to the 2019 budget. But, Mrs Anagnostopoulos, the regular budget of the Ministry of Culture has now not absorbed most of it. The 12 million, firstly, have already been supplemented by other sources of funding, whether it is a public investment programme or a very large loan. Do not constantly try to create a climate! You talk about copyright and related rights. It was what had to be done. You referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection shall be the committee set up in consultation with the institutions. It has come to a number of proposals and these things go ahead, as the legislation on strengthening the Greek song goes on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u44	We're eight months later and nothing has happened!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u45	You refer to small and medium-sized enterprises and small businesses in culture. But the basic tool for supporting these businesses, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, will be "ACROPOL", which is set up and which in this Chamber your party fought it rabies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u46	Madam Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u47	I do not want you to agree, and I do not demand you to agree, because we are divided into a lot of things about what a target means and what a result is. We're not in cloud, we're not in clouds. We have specific policies that we are implementing. And they're measurable. From there on, there is the Recovery Fund, the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I will not go into dialogue with you as you do, because this is not the parliamentary procedure, which you so insist on. The Ministry of Culture, therefore, within the framework of the recovery and resilience mechanism, has drawn up comprehensive proposals which will form part of the cultural part of the country's National Recovery Plan. And all this is the reformist and investment programme by 2026. Inside this process, we are trying to resolve - and we will resolve, because we know how to do it - all the pathogens, which are accumulated decades and which, because of the pandemic, were shown to be as they were. You talked about grants. We've given a lot more money to grants than you're talking about. Most of them, who were consistent and had their supporting documents in good time, received them, collected them daily. And the money is much more than you say and isolate, that there is no support for culture. Because the joint ministerial decisions came out for the first time, so that not only the AMKE can be financed, which until now were financed and will continue to be financed by the Ministry of Culture....
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u48	How many have been financed, Minister? Bring us some numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u49	The numbers are at your disposal. You constantly ask for documents to be deposited and, whenever you ask, you have them. I have no problem sitting down and seeing the numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u50	You said general. Who took it, what did it take?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u51	Please. For the first time, then, joint ministerial decisions were made by the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Culture...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u52	Now please, me too! I'm sorry, Minister. I understand that when one deals with culture, one of his elements is passion. I understand that. But let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u53	First of all, Mr President, and Mrs Anagnostopoulos, I would like to say to you - and you know very well - that we have doubled grants because of the pandemic. He was usually given 1,000,000 to the theater's AMK and we gave 2,000,000. They were giving about 500,000 to the prom and we gave 1,100,000. They've doubled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u54	We restored grants.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u55	No objections. I've said it publicly. In 2017, the awarded grants were reintroduced. That doesn't mean anything. I have said from this Step on several occasions that Mrs. Conniordos has restored the grants. That does not mean, however, that we did not improve - and we should do so - what we found. We don't have that kind of zero tendencies. We recognize the good things. Others have these tendencies. For the first time, the Ministry of Culture will also finance professionals, cultural enterprises. That's never happened before. So all of this is planned and implemented. And through the National Recovery Plan, this government will gain its bet on culture, because we have know-how and can meet the demands of such a project. And what's the project? To get the professional landscape into a classroom in the field of culture at last. That is our objective, and that is what we will do. Be sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u56	Thank you. I'll say two things, not about culture, not about the question. Firstly, it is the parliamentary procedure that is the procedure. Then everyone has the ability, the freedom to make a announcement, a press release, etc. Secondly, I must say that this procedure is really limited in time. But I let you talk to me, I must tell you that this question lasted forty minutes. It's a little too much. I would therefore suggest that such important questions, if possible - in consultation, of course, with the Bureau of each Parliamentary Group - be made timely questions....
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u57	We've done...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u58	I'm not talking about SYRIZA. I'm saying that for everyone. Subsequently, under number 53/12-10-2020, a topical question by MP I Eastern Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouliakos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "A civil non-profit company manages funds of the Ministry for the operation of the National Museum of Contemporary Art EMST". He has the floor for two minutes to explain to us what he's asking and what he's talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on 11-10-2020 in a published weekly newspaper "DOCUMENTO" there is a detailed report showing that the Ministry of Culture grants an urban non-profit company with a registered name for DOMST with huge amounts of money, on the grounds of the operation of the National Museum of Contemporary Art. In particular, according to the publication AMKE PDSF was established in 2014 solely for the purpose of implementing the ‘Stavros Niarchos Foundation’ donation in favour and for the benefit of EMST, in accordance with the conditions set out in the 14-04-014 donation contract of EUR 3 million. The founders of the company were the architect Mr.Athanasios Kratsos and two executives of the Ministry of Culture, Mr. Liontos and Mr. Kostakis. In 2018, the board of directors of the company decided that there was no need to operate DOMST, as the museum could only manage the donation money now. New Democracy is coming and on 3 February 2020, DPRK has amended its statutes and extended the purposes of its operation beyond the implementation of the donation by adding to the objectives the acceptance of grants from the Ministry of Culture and Sport and their management with a view to undertaking all the obligations necessary to prevent the implementation of the ultimate purpose of the donation, i.e. the uninterrupted functioning of the EMFF. From the 28-02-2020, a kitten of ongoing grants from the Ministry of Culture to that AMKE for the operation of the museum begins to cover the maintenance costs of the museum and costs to prepare a museum's viability study. In other words, according to the publication the Ministry of Culture uses this urban non-profit company as a vehicle so that part of the state budget of the Ministry of Culture and Sport would avoid any form of public control. On the basis of the above, Mr Minister: Firstly, why is it using the money of Greek taxpayers by subsidising a civil non-profit company to operate a supervised body of the Ministry of Culture and Sport? Secondly, does DSMB comply with public accounting rules for the award of contracts if it uses state budget money or serves direct awards? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u60	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much. Before I answer your question, I would like to say a few words about the operation of the National Museum of Contemporary Art. As you know very well in July 2019 the EMS was not just away from opening, but no realistic practice was erased even in the medium term. The fact is that, not only during the days of your government, no substantial progress was made in the attempt to operate the FIX building as a museum, but the major donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation was jeopardized, which created the preconditions for the operation of the museum. From the outset, our government pledged that it would immediately complete the project and make the EMS, the PIX on the substance of a daily visit, despite the fact that the situation in which the museum was received made it almost impossible to complete it immediately. The Fix had to stop acting as a cultural multi-purpose and finally act as a museum of contemporary art. That is why in close cooperation with the management of the museum, the board of directors and the temporary directors established an integrated plan for its opening. There have been many problems, which we have overcome in quite legitimate and transparent ways. The museum opened on February 24 with absolutely positive comments from the vast majority of the people of culture and the wider public. Let's go to your questions now. The EMS action team is a non-profit company, you said it too, which was set up in 2014. According to its statute, its main purpose was to implement the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, in accordance with the conditions set out in the contract of donation between the Foundation and the National Museum of Contemporary Art and the annex to it, for the purpose of carrying out the additional work of renovating the EMF building in the FX building. I would like to point out that the board of directors of the company decided in 2018 to replace its resigned member, Mr Kostakis, with a member of the board of directors of EMST, Mr Dimitrios Bouburis. It is therefore at least unrealistic to claim the publication, which, however, you fully adopt, for the cessation of the operation of DPAMs. If that had happened, the board of directors of the company would have decided to resolve it - it had all year after July 2019 - and the company would have been removed from the General Commercial Register. However, this was neither in 2018 nor in the first half of 2019. During the period from August 2019 and after the Ministry of Culture, in cooperation with the management of the museum, it took all those measures so that the museum could be put into operation. In addition, the institution's donation had strict deadlines for completion. If these were not kept because of the inertia that has taken place in recent years, donation would be at risk again. In other words, because of the manipulations of the previous political leadership over your own governance, we have had to do in six months what has happened in four and a half years and we have done it and opened the museum. Since, therefore, the primary purpose at the time of taking up our duties was to save the donation, the Ministry of Culture, in consultation and in cooperation with the administration of the EMFF, appointed on your own government, no person has changed either to the management level or to the board of directors, to the extent that it was required to carry out the most recent operations required for the opening of the museum, as provided for in its statute. In addition, the Ministry of Culture grants annually a large number of legal persons pursuing these objectives. The grant was granted under Law 2557/1997, which defines what and how the Ministry of Culture can grant. The relevant decisions have all been posted in "GENERAL" and what we must know and remember is that no grant can be granted unless the public accounting has been followed. Grants are from the ordinary budget and the ordinary budget is completely controlled. Your Honor, you are trying on various occasions to involve both the government and me personally in so-called shadowy public money management procedures. You wish to build one more scandal. You have experience to do that. Well, I tell you and I assure you that in the case of the Ministry of Culture you will find nothing like this, as you will not find it in any of the ministries of this government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Darkness, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, we will ask and ask for answers. I understand, it's a big problem to hide it behind a finger. You are here in a delightful capacity to justify unjustified justification. You started your answer, let me have the popular expression, with 'other words to be loved'. Minister, you have decided to rehabilitate this DPRK, which was set up for a specific purpose, to welcome the sponsorship, the donation of the institution. We are not talking here about saving the donation, but about the issue you added to the statute, about accepting grants from the Ministry of Culture. This licence therefore does not accept the money of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation alone, but collects the money of the public, the Greek taxpayers, the Greek people. What were the reasons why they imposed the activation of this urban non-profit company? The response that has been constantly repeated is 'to overcome the bureaucratic squabbles'. That cannot be the case, Minister. In the case of public money, there must be transparency. Its management requires absolute transparency. Really? Is the public's slow-moving? Fifteen years of secretary of the Ministry of Culture. You served five ministers and equal governments. What did you do to run the procedures? And don't tell me why SYRIZA didn't cure four and a half years of hardship! How many years does New Democracy have been governed by Transmigration? Twenty. But the issue is not arithmetic - four and a half, SYRIZA, twenty-nine New Democracy and twenty-one PASOK - but qualitative. You don't want these claws to be healed to be set up with that AMKE in the National Museum of Contemporary Art. Things happen here, at least according to the report, and that's why we ask you to place yourself. One of the founding members of this civil non-profit company is the official of the Ministry of Culture - Mr Kostakis, who resigned from a member of the board of directors of the civil non-profit corporation in 2018 and now sign the grants to AMKE, amounting to EUR 100,000 of the Directorate-General for Modern Culture, as Head and then another EUR 300,000. What are you doing right there, Bubulina? On 6 October, it was decided to grant the public-private institution EUR 300,000 to cover the maintenance costs of the museum and to prepare a viability study for this museum. I have your decisions here and I will submit them. Why isn't the study done by the Ministry? In fact, it is written in the report that the study will be undertaken by Mrs Katerina Gregos, who at the same time in recent months has been rumoured to be the director of EMST. Is it true? If not, disprove and commit. The President of the EMS board of directors of EMS Mr. Yorgos Papanastassiou states that in this way, with HDSMST, things were done fine, as in civilised countries. First of all, we thank you for bringing us to the civilised world because we were not, but the preservation of the museum, which costs 60,000 euros, requires an international competition. You took care of it through the civil non-profit company with direct assignment to a security company, without control, without accountability. It's something you do often. But is that possible? Part of the budget of the Ministry of Culture passes without any control? It's taxpayers' money, isn't it? And we will also talk about "All Greece a Culture". You gave us some answers, some funds, but you didn't tell us where they were given, who they were given and on what conditions they were granted. It's so much the Lykian, so much the National. Where? Who? And on what conditions? On what criteria? You don't answer that, but you're going to have to answer it. So getting out of the public software field, public control, a piece of public spending is legal, is moral? What is it, tell us. Should the public account not be kept by grants from the State budget? Since this money is to be used in works or supplies, do you not have to follow all the procedures of the Separation Act outright? That's a good idea with the civil non-profit company, flying under the radar, doing what we want. In conclusion, Madam Minister, your political decision to use taxpayers' money with transparency and the absence of public control does not seem to us. Can you do what you want and you know why? Because you have made no commitment to the Greek people in terms of culture. There is not a single word about culture in the New Democracy election programme. So you can do everything you can in this case - in the commonly called sea, because you do not have to account to anyone, we have not committed ourselves to the Greek people in anything for culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u64	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u65	Who has screwed up and who screwed up is judged by the Greek people themselves, Mr. Skourikos. And since you speak for six minutes, based on what is rumoured, in rumors: “It is rumoured that it will be the lady who has seen it. It's a rumorable one. I shall tell you that we are not talking about rumours here, Mr Darkness. We need to see specific things. You speak and use the word "react" for the civil non-profit corporation. Why, had the urban non-profit company ever ceased to function? Not at all, Mr. Darkness. In 2018, on your own government, members changed. You had all the margin until July 2019 to abolish it and delete it from the business register. None of this happened. Therefore, do not try to create impressions. As far as public accounting is concerned, you must know that nothing in the ordinary budget can be given out if it has not passed the perfectly legitimate procedures. You have no right to offend any public official by saying that they sign grants that are not lawful. Because that's actually what you're doing. Grants therefore also go through the Directorate-General for Modern Culture and the Directorate-General for Financial Support. They sign at least nine executives and you cannot insult these people that they are doing non-legal acts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u66	After that, who controls?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u67	Please, Mr. Darkness! So don't constantly try to create impressions. Even for the program "All Greece One Culture" you asked for documents and received all the documents from all supervised bodies. Well, please, please. All things have limits. Do not try to justify things that are in your mind as scandals. After all, should I tell you something? Anyone who wants to, if he thinks something is a scandal, let it go. There is one justice that we absolutely trust. Well, who has done and what everyone has done for the Museum of Contemporary Art has proved to be in February 2020 when we opened it. This is evidenced today when the museum works. And can I tell you something about the Greek taxpayer? Years the entire Greek taxpayer paid staff and expenses for a museum that did not exist. The museum began to exist and exist as a museum from February of '20. Shouldn't that worry you? And what is it you say: 'The previous years have been PASOK and New Democracy and we are five years'? What does that mean? Five years is not sufficient time to correct bad texts and even such bad texts as you say? Let this story stop. If you have specific things to say, tell them. After all, if we had something to hide, we wouldn't be going to publish the decisions on 'DENMARK'. That's what the law says, that's what we do. We would try to find other ways rather than the ordinary budget, which is constantly being judged and controlled by the relevant institutions. So let's stop this story. If you have specific things to say, come and tell them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u68	Because we're about half an hour behind the whole program, please as long as we can stay in time. We continue with the fourth under number 45/12-10-2020 in the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The necessary maintenance work in the swimming pool of Chania and the immediate reopening of the swimming pools". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr. Eleftherios Ausgeakis. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is a common assumption that the National Pool of Chania, the only in operation in Chania, is in a tragic state despite the superhuman effort made by the few employees, coaches and parents every day to ensure its uninterrupted operation. The characteristic of this neglect is the erosion of the metal forklifts identified by autopsy techniques since 2006 and made it necessary to shut down the facilities for safety reasons of the employees and workers, of course, coaches, etc. To date, however, nothing has been done at all, with the responsibility of all governments and all the relevant bodies over the years. In the interests of safety for athletes, escorts and swimmers, it was considered necessary to temporarily suspend the operation of the swimming pools of twenty-five and twelve-and-a-half meters provided that the necessary dismantling operations were carried out in the summer of the season and to place the lighting pillars again in use with the new sports season. Despite the justified indignation of parents, athletes, coaches and workers, despite the fact that they were going - come yours and your statements in Chania, there is not even a clear timetable even now for the removal of existing hangars and their replacement, as well as for the placement of the lighting pillars which also create very great difficulties and dangers for children who work in the nights. The reality, unfortunately, is that while the swimming pool started, we are entering winter and still has not taken the first step of removing the rooftops. It is really unfair for the children of the city of Chania who want to learn to swim and of course for the claims athletes of the Naval Club of Chania, the conditions being embarrassing. The result, however, is that all the actions were finally focused on the fifty pool of outdoor space, i.e. a swimming pool called to serve the needs of a thousand and more athletes of Chania Naval Sports Group for all swimming sports - swimming, water sports, technical swimming, artistic swimming - with significant discrimination, highlighting talents throughout the range of sea sports. Most of the thousands of athletes in fact have remained unsported, waiting for the implementation of the promises you made from mid-July to dismantle dangerous ceilings and immediately place the lighting pillars in the summer, in order for the swimming pools to function again. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] However, the problems and needs for the swimming pool do not stop here, as at the same time there are serious deficiencies, Mr Secretary, permanent staff - such as guardians, electricians, conservators, chemicals and other specialities - while, as we know, you are planning to privatise a private company. It would be exaggerated to say that a national sporting space, such as that one, must have an organised gym, medical care, doctors and physiotherapists. Finally, as we all understand, needs are growing. The will to sport young people and given that the Naval Group of Chania has significant discrimination outside Greece, with a good and serious job of all the staff of the swimming pool, objectively the need to use the closed swimming pool in Akrotiri Chania that was built in the Olympic Games and never worked. It has been abandoned and has suffered extensive damage with the responsibility of all governments. Minister, all the athletes and their families are struggling and fighting in inequality and in difficult conditions, having to face - beyond the financial difficulties of state sub-financing - and the lack of available space. The underfunding, therefore, and the pressing problems of the swimming pool of Chania and all, of course, of the national sports centres lead to the delivery of their operations to private individuals in line with the European Union's demands made by governments over time. So we ask you, Mr Secretary-General, what measures is the government intending to take, firstly, for the immediate decommissioning of dangerous roofed tanks, for the reopening of swimming pools, for the twenty-five and for the first half of the year, without the existence of the building - necessary evil - secondly, for the immediate placement of the pillars of lighting, thirdly, for the replacement of swimming pools and for the overall maintenance of swimming pool facilities, fourthly, for the increase of regular funding from the State budget at the National Sports Centre of Chania and, of course, for all, of course, the sports centres, at the height of the real needs, the necessary recruitment of permanent staff, the increase of the regular grant to amateur clubs, so that there are mass sport programmes, swimming, free of charge for everyone and, of course, the use, as I told you, of the new swimming pool on the sole side of the state. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, too. Good morning, me too. The speech is made by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports Mr. Eleftherios Aeggeakis for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your question, regarding the maintenance needs of the swimming pool of Chania, dear colleague and friend Manolis. The swimming pool of Chania faces problems, but problems that did not occur yesterday or the last year of course. These are problems that have accumulated over time. For too many years, there have been no maintenance and modernisation work in the swimming pool complex. The sports infrastructure of our country that we received is, please, in a disgraceful state of affairs as a whole. Dissolution picture prevails everywhere. For example, in the OECD, which had to be a real ornament, there was a picture of abandonment: garbage and useless objects everywhere, obvious signs of deterioration and indifference, and mainly no maintenance work. In Birron, the Symbol had been abandoned. Not only was there no maintenance, but there were also serious operational problems, without even administration and without any worker. However, I shall refer to these as a whole, namely the image of our Olympic facilities, immediately afterwards, to a next question I have received from the Greek Solution. Our national sports centres across the territory have serious deficiencies and serious maintenance problems. Unfortunately, our sports facilities are, in some cases, at a collapse stage and present a sad image, a picture that does not honor us. Sadly, this sad image of abandonment is evident for many years and in the swimming pool of Chania. The swimming pool complex is located at the west end of the city, very close to the sea. Due to its location it is exposed to weather, humidity and salt. It consists of three swimming pools, a 50-mile open tank, illuminated by four pillars of electric lighting, a twenty-five and a 12-mile private pool, which is covered with metal constructions. Along one side of the largest tank there are scales while on the other side there is a building, on the ground floor of which the services of athletes, administration, locker room, office, warehouse. In the basement is the engine room - water room with spaces for the necessary mechanical equipment, which I visited one - one separately. In October 2019, I was informed by the OAS administration of the detachment of the upper pillar, i.e. the framework for support for lighting bodies, due to strong winds. I immediately ordered an autopsy, carried out on 18 and 19 October 2019 by engineers of the technical service of the General Secretariat of Sports in order to identify and evaluate the situation of the remaining three pillars, as well as the overall picture of the facilities located in the swimming pool area. The autopsy was found to be: First, electrophoresis pillars. The degree of corrosion of their metallurgy was such that their maintenance posed risks directly to the users of the installations. First, the immediate removal within a maximum of two days of the swimming pool and the remaining three lighting support frames from the respective pillars was requested, respecting all necessary security measures and using specialised staff and, second, the start of a temporary lighting project on the roof of the administrative, locker and swimming rooms in order to partially meet the needs of use of the swimming pool until a new permanent electrical lighting system is installed. Both of these requirements were directly met. Second, swimming pool metal forklifts. Checks were also carried out on the metal constructions that house the other two auxiliary swimming pools. The roofs have been constructed at different phases from different bodies. It has been observed that their organism shows obvious signs of corrosion due to the intense corrosive coastal environment and the lack of regular maintenance. In particular, at the point of seat of the metal roofs, which are located in the area of the tank engine room, the degree of corrosion was such that they needed to be replaced or strengthened immediately. Third, perimeter walls of swimming pools. Extensive problems were observed from the control carried out in the engine room in the condition of the armed concrete of the tank agency. In particular, due to the fact that the concrete had not been applied to any protective coating, as it should have been then, and in conjunction with the fact that it is in a fairly corrosive environment - by the sea - there had been problems of enthusiasm and depletion of concrete, as well as oxidation and enlargement of arms. In order to stop the development of these phenomena, it was considered that the repair work of the organism should be carried out immediately. At the same time, following an investigation carried out in the service file - hold this! - previous autopsy reports and documents still dating back to 2006, please. In fact, you have listened well, ladies and gentlemen, for 15 years now, the problems mentioned above have been mentioned and we have been calling for rehabilitating measures and even the closure of these facilities for safety reasons, which had not been carried out until that time. It was considered that the continued operation of these tanks posed a direct risk to users as long as they are not removed. We therefore decided to suspend the operation of the two bathing tanks. Of course, it was an unpleasant decision. It was, however, a necessary and necessary decision, because safety and, of course, the health of children, athletes, escorts and staff. What Minister, really, wants to close an installation? Nobody, I'm sure. But it had to be done and done. And here is the difference between the current government. We have not remained aware of the problem, we have not put another report in the drawer, such as so many others. Immediately we have responded with actions and I shall refer in detail to my second language with details and dates, which you have asked for. And here, of course, there is one question that I, too, put in my turn, not to you personally or to your party: Where were the SYRIZA Members and the Chania Ministers in the previous period to put something further forward? Nowhere, you vanished! Of course, even less to no speaking and claiming, some - not all - of the representatives of sports clubs serving in the facilities there. Clearly, so I don't get any misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u72	And finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u73	And I'll be done. They do well and claim, they do very well and they want better sporting conditions for their children, but it is good not to have short memory and not to get air from SYRIZA because there are responsibilities. And we are determined here to put a series of the problems called "Chania swimming pool" and to deliver to Chania a modern, safe swimming pool, as we must do as a government responsible and serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Synthraki - do not waste it - do not talk again five minutes in dentistry. Please keep the time! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u75	Minister, in the first part of your position, I do not think there will be any disagreement, in relation to the history of the whole problem, the control, the autopsy that has been done and the presence of yours. I, in particular, visited the swimming pool on a step by the Communist Party and we did indeed find the serious problems facing the swimming pool. In fact, I was given this dimension of the problem, but it is another thing to tell and see it. But what's the matter, Mr. Undersecretary? There is a direct one, there is both short-term and long-term. In other words, it was urgent - and this is what we are standing at - that is to do with the restoration of these dangerous rooftops so that the large pool is dismantled - because you are now seeing in a pool of a thousand children, we are not going crazy now - and the small ones returning to the twelfth and twenty-five pool. But that should already have been done, and that is where you are responsible. You made a promise to dismantle the docks in the summer, and you did not implement this. The two smaller swimming pools have been closed since last June. You visited the swimming pool on July 13 and made this promise of immediate decomposition. It didn't happen. You have had all the time in the summer for both the completion of the committee and the opening of the competition for the removal of the rooftops. You didn't do it again then. From the administration of HAC Chania on 8 September it was announced that the tender was a matter of time. Nothing happened again. I mean, you're announcing plans without timeliness, promises, that is, no reflection. This is indeed a very serious matter. It's not just the fortress, it is. They do not, however, satisfy the simple promises of athletes, parents and workers, even when there are long-term plans to upgrade the swimming pool, with which parents, workers do not disagree. Nor do we disagree, no one has any objections to that. However, the restoration of the bulkheads and the placement of the lighting pillars must now be done. And when we say now, we mean that, on the one hand, this should have been done and it didn't happen. And when we say now, no later than mid-November, there must be a restoration in order to deliver the tanks to the athletes, so that the year will come out. There's already a delay. The new rooftops must be placed in a 'dead time', i.e. not operating the swimming pool and judged in combination with other measures, of course, because we are not technically able to become a political party either. In any case, however, you must draw up a specific timetable so that the uninterrupted operation of the swimming pool is not compromised. In other words, any work must be done in the summer, so that since the beginning of the new sports season there will be no problems. Apart from the horror of the 50th, where there are a thousand athletes, small and large - and, indeed, be careful in conditions of pandemic that should be respected - there is also the question of safety for small athletes, that is, the prototypes, which are forced to swim in deep waters with all the dangers. I wonder. Haven't you seen that? So, how do you deal with it? In the name of a tragic situation in the swimming pool, does the existing swimming pool have to deteriorate, rather than temporarily facilitating some things so that in the future, in the short or long term, problems can be solved? If we want to talk about full satisfaction of Chania' needs in liquid sport, then there is a clear need for both the modernization of the facilities in New Country and for the development of the Olympic swimmer state in Akrotiri under the sole responsibility of the state. The question is: Why don't you do it? Why does all governments whistle indifferently and remain in promises? Why is it worse every year? That's the question. In our view, it is a planned choice for the previous governments too. I do not know how the declarations you have made will now develop, not only for the Chania swimming pool, but for that of Heraklion, for all of Crete and for all of the country, etc., with the problems you have identified, but here there are specific European decisions and plans that hamper what we call "sport for all the people". On the contrary, the European Union and the governments consider this matter to be costly, in the name of a lack of money in choices, in public-private partnerships, in penetrating individuals from study to construction, maintenance and operation of sports facilities, by transferring costs to parents and athletes. It is therefore forbidden to have access to the majority of children from working folk layers. So we have reached a point where, in reality, sport is aimed at the few and not the vast majority of the people. It is obvious that there are one and a half million Greek children involved in sport. About seven hundred thousand are sporting and so are learning. They're in the pre-agonists, so they don't have a championship. Others go to a sports area, in a pool, in a closed track, in order to engage in sport. What does the state have for this one and a half million families? If you consider what a child costs and what money the state grants, the sums are trivial, they are degrading literally. Swimming, therefore, is a life-saving sport and the state, the state must provide it for free and for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u76	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u77	I shall conclude, Mr President. We, as a Communist Party of Greece, will, on the one hand, insist on the swimming pool of Chania in the direction of giving immediate solutions now to what is necessary, namely restoration. Use these two swimming pools even temporarily and from there, based on the design you say, to proceed with the implementation of the rest of the plan, so that there are no problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, too. You haven't respected me again, but it's okay, I appreciate you. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes. I think all that remains is the dates. You have nothing else to say, because you've said it in your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u79	Let me reply, Mr President. After all, it has taken three times the time for my colleague to develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u80	That's it. It took three times each, the other wants more, and we'll leave tonight.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u81	From the first time we took over the governance of the country, we committed ourselves to housekeeping, putting order in the operation of the administration, giving away oxygen to society. Of course, we agree with you that there is a delay of many years in important projects, such as what we described and finally agree on the issue of the Chania swimming pool. In a period of 15 months, however, we have only been able to deal with a number of chronic problems. We are very happy, because we are making our commitments. We have done work that has not been done for too many years. But let's stay as far as the Chania EAK is concerned. Immediately after the autopsy in October 2019 and the technical service's findings, it was considered - as I mentioned in my prototype - that the continued operation of these tanks poses a risk to users and so we decided to suspend the operation of the two swimming pools. At the same time, we immediately started the procedures for the maintenance of the facilities and the reopening of the bathing tanks. The repair of the rooftops was estimated to be impossible or at least inconsistently costly in relation to their removal and replacement from a new roof. Thus, we have unanimously come to the decision to initiate the procedures for the immediate removal of the docks. Other autopsies followed. In the most recent engineering step of our service on 22-7-2020 and 23-7-2020, more specific remarks were made on how to remove dangerous bulkheads, relocate the lighting tissues and restore the perimeter walls of the swimming pools and, on the other hand, all the necessary technical interventions that had been added over time were recorded with a view to the overall improvement of the sports facilities and their uninterrupted operation. Our service has already prepared the study entitled "Strengthening of roofs and restoring perimeter walls of the two auxiliary swimming tanks and placing four lighting tissues at the National Maritime Sport Centre of Chania", with a budget amounting to 70.059,79 euros and a total budget of around 87,000 euros. Already, Mr Synergyakis, it is for the auction in the sports works auction section, i.e. all preliminary actions have been taken mainly for the project, a competition committee, etc. and programming is that within about 10 days this project will have been auctioned. At the same time, the Chania R&D&I has already issued the necessary building permit. But we don't live in the maintenance of the facilities. Following the visit of the stadium of our service on 22-7-2020 and 23-7-2020, only ten days after my visit to the facilities of the NASA Chania, all necessary studies were recorded, taking into account what was in the service and what is necessary to be updated. To prepare these studies more quickly, cooperation between the GAAP and the Development Agency of Crete has been launched as a faster tool for the preparation of studies. Already at the previous meeting of the OAS Board, this cooperation and the signing of a memorandum to run, already in progress, studies by the technicians of the Agency for the Development of Crete under the supervision of Mars Papadogiannis were approved. In fact, on September 28th and 29th, OAS's engineer step visited the facilities of ECAK Chania, detailedly documented the needs in upgrading and modernisation studies and, of course, immediately started the preparation of priority studies in Chania's swimming pool and without any other second talk, without any asterisk. This cooperation relates to the upgrading of all the buildings of the National Sports Centre of Chania, but of course it has priority for the swimming pool and then all the other facilities, the sniper, the anti-smoking phase, etc., where in this cooperation we pay as a GAAP the studies, with a clear command: we want all the studies to be made as soon as possible to have a safe, modern swimming pool in Chania and not partial patches. In addition, we amplify the R&D&I with additional staff for its proper operation. First of all, we launched the credit of EUR 123,000 from the cash available for the payroll of the five additional employees transferred from GAAP to the ECA. We solved a chronic problem that held the hostages of the respective leadership. At the same time, we are strengthening staff through the OAS's work programme. In particular, 13 staff were predicted at the EAK of Chania with diplomas of civil engineering, electricians, engineers, nursing staff and assistant staff. A series of recruitments have already proceeded. In conclusion, I will refer to funding. In the spring, the first instalment of the regular grant of EUR 372,000 was credited, at the end of July, for the second instalment of EUR 465,000 - you missed this - and at the end of October the third instalment was estimated to be EUR 93 000. Also, in December 2019, I was granted a grant of EUR 20,000 as an emergency grant, while the amount of EUR 75,921 and the sum of EUR 80,462 for 2020 through the PPP was EUR 80,462. Hold those numbers, why? In 2016, 2017 and June 2019, a grant of EUR 0 was granted as an emergency grant. This concerns the rulers of the previous period, from Chania, who are extremely speaking and I would also like their opinion on the practical interest shown by the then government in the Chania swimming pool, which today is action and all energy. We are therefore doing nothing more, ladies and gentlemen, than it goes without saying: we are responding to the anguish of hundreds of athletes, parents, actors and members of the administration. We'll do whatever we have to. It is a commitment so that for the Chania swimming pool, having completed all of the studies, we can ensure the funding that is required - we do not know how much it is - because so far we have partial studies which, of course, do not respond to the problem as a whole, but to some problems and we want to tackle the issue as a whole, that is what we are doing. We are already doing so with commitment, but above all with great insistence and great pressure on the OAS's technical services, which have more engineers at their disposal to produce study work, which we need to have at our disposal as soon as possible. And one last thing in terms of officials. We've already started procedures. They are time-consuming, demanding, but yes, we understand - in fact we have received a major problem - that is, facilities, national sports centres with a minimum staff and that we have already started the necessary moves from our services so that we also have permanent staff in time to strengthen the activity and the movements for the work of the sports centres which are being carried out, which will not cease to be public. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u82	Thank you very much. We move on to the debate of the fifth under number 30/5-10-2020 on the first-round question by MP Serres of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boubas to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "Olympic Real Estate in absolute deportation and abandonment". Mr. Booba, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u83	Good morning, Mr President! Good morning, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen! It is a big matter, Minister, of course, it is not just about you. You will have responsibilities from now on and for the last 15 months that you have undertaken, but without that meaning that your predecessors do not have these great responsibilities, because at last I think it is time to make a fund. A "fund" confused with a budget for the Olympic Games, which the world still does not know what its real image is - and I am sorry to say it - but unfortunately it may not know and when and will not know it. Some people are talking about 8 billion euros, some for 10 billion euros, some for 11 billion euros and they go by saying. It's a fog situation, a mystery veil, but we get to this. There are many ruined buildings in many parts, not only of the capital, but throughout Greece. Since 2014, in other words, ten years after this "grande spetacolo", as the Latins would say, from this great spectacle, which dropped the lights, they were really beautiful and the bags and celebrations from Mrs Angelopoulou, Mr Simitis, Mr Karamanlis, the former and all these "Athanatos", but unfortunately these "Immortals" killed the Olympic Games and will pay, not Kallimarmaros, but marble the Greek people. And he's gonna pay for it, and he's already paying for it. From there, of course, we cannot say that Greece has an external debt of 360 billion and that the Olympic Games only had a debt of 8 billion to justify unjustified. And 1 euro, when it is squandered and not exploited, is a felony. There have been public prosecutors since then. I remember Mr Buyuko, Mrs Siskoy, who, like your fellow Member, does not have to mention names - they asked for responsibilities to be attributed, because there was a time delay and a lack of planning for what to be the next day. Is there a statement by the University of George Washington, Mrs Lisa Darroy, which she says? This woman is responsible for sports planning cities that organise the Olympic Games. He received a call one month before the opening of the Olympic Games and asked the people of Greek sport how we would make use of the Olympic projects that will stay in Greece the next day. Why are you falling in love now? With the sixty-four tourist companies that took over the project, the forty-nine construction companies and all those involved with contractors, sub-contractors and go by saying, we are late. We didn't learn from Barcelona and Los Angeles, they say the statistics I read. Because all the cities, Montreal, Adelaide, Munich had their problems. No one's going to see. Even London was taught by the Olympic Games according to Commissioner Oswald's statement. He told the British: "Don't make the mistakes Greece made. Many projects had to be procats." It shouldn't have been a baseball or a cricket right now. What are we going to do with this in Greece? For example, in Britain basketball and water football, polo, are not widespread. What were the people doing there? They had 'em, and they took 'em. As far as Barcelona is concerned, the Olympic projects in Barcelona are currently housed in three thousand businesses and it has been refurbished by satellites in the city. We did not have such planning. The question - to break out your intentions - is this: Is it your plans to move on and what we can alleviate and prevent from the remaining Olympic projects so that they can be used, as is the case with this Olympic ideal of worldisation at least? What are your intentions? The Greek people must not be informed. How much did he pay and what will be the next day even for these ruins, which have become the landscape lunar? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Booba. The Secretary of State for Culture and Sport will answer Mr. Eleftherios Aeggeakis. Mr. Ausgeakis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your question, Mr President. As far as the Olympic properties are concerned, unfortunately the same abandonment images I mentioned before about the swimming pool of Chania apply. Unfortunately, most Olympic sports facilities are shining. For many years there have been no maintenance and modernisation work on these facilities, while many have been looted and sabotage. The first time I took up my duties I performed an autopsy at all sports facilities in order to have a personal picture and perception. I don't hesitate to share with you that I felt sad, shock and frustration with the images I saw. Where should I be first? In the OECD, which, although it should be a real ornament, was there a full picture of abandonment? Dumps and useless objects everywhere. Objects since 2004, please! There were obvious signs of deterioration and indifference and mainly no maintenance work. The maintenance needs are enormous. It's obvious the neglect. Analogous image to CVR. There are significant deficiencies in both cleanliness and safety. Tacans were watershed. In Agios Kosmas, we also had serious maintenance problems, but also terrible deficiencies. In Olympiacos Village there is a picture of abandonment. The only maintenance that was done was from the esteem of amateur unions using the facilities, and up to four months ago Olympiacos Village belonged to OAED, please. In Byron, the Symbol had been abandoned. Not only was there no maintenance, but there were serious operating problems and problems of use. There was not even an administration and, of course, not even a single worker. At the Ano Liosia Sports Center. There was no maintenance for too many years, but abandonment with most facilities looted, supported by the city authority's simplicity. And there is no single employee in the Sports Secretariat. In Painland, the House of Volley and the Closed Athletics, there is a complete abandonment. Corruption, plundering. Everything has been ripped out, even the cables from the walls. And there no employee, no interest, as if there were, as if we weren't interested in this facility. At Schistos it remained untreated and in full devoured all this area - pearl, which is a very interesting asset. Unfortunately, this picture of abandonment and depreciation was not just in Olympic sports facilities. A similar picture of abandonment and extermination we had both in the national sports centers throughout the country, but also in other sports facilities that are subject to other bodies, such as self-government. Honestly and literally we didn't know where to start. It was difficult to put priorities in place. The picture is so bad that all work on all facilities was urgent but also necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not flattered. I am not in this category of politicians who simply watch and cry. I want to give you the real picture of the situation that we have been called upon to face since the first day. This picture was at least disappointing. It was an image that was not worthy of our national family, our society, the birthplace of the Olympic Games, in Greece of 2004, the sacrifices of the Greeks and especially of our children. This picture, although it gave us more weight to our responsibilities, convinced us, dear fellow Member, and gave us strength to move even faster to house and rebuild our facilities safe and functional and of course to be at the disposal of the entire sporting family. So, with this suffocating time pressure, we have lifted the sleeves in a very short time in just fourteen, fifteen months to deal with a number of problems. We have managed to regain life in the sports infrastructures, and we are moving on with vision, but above all with design and planning for the exploitation of all our sports facilities. I am very happy, because we are making our commitments. We have done work that has not been done for too many years. At this point I would like to thank the staff of the service, the administrations and the staff of the sports centres, and also the local authorities and all stakeholders for valuable cooperation - assistance to do all we all want to do without exception. To speak in sports terms, Mr Colleague, we are in a constant race, in a marathon where we run with a sprid.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. I will tell you something because I happened to cover the success of Mrs Patulidou in Barcelona. After three days when we left Barcelona, we saw from the plane that the Olympic village was up, so it has three thousand operations now. Mr. Booba, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Undersecretary, describe the image with too many details. And I wonder, what image can I show you after you know them? If we go inside the internet, one succeeds the other, the absolute abandonment and desertification. And in your special homeland, Crete, at the cyclistry of Chania, the swimming pool we talked about before, Veria, Yanna, in Amphissa, I have the gym that is only left with the skeleton. You know, the same applies to many Olympic projects, which, yes, were for coaching purposes. I don't really know which image to show. They're shameful images. The best post has been done by the Spanish newspaper "EL PAIS", the Spaniard describes it all. But also foreign networks, the BBC, the FINANCIAL TIMES, the Gazzetta dello Sport, the LA REPUBLICA, many newspapers have been reported. They're images of abandonment, shame. It is not wrong for them to have mildness, courage, virtue, courage, the daring of politicians to come out, for Mrs Angelopoulos to come out, for Mr Simitis, Mr Avramopoulos, Mr Karamanlis, to say "mea culpa", or for the next day to say "we have failed, we have paid dearly". You know, then, in 2004, we were not a political force in this place. However, our President and journalist and later MP, Kyriakos Velopoulos, has the right to speak because we have never been in favour of this form of organising and marketing the Olympic Games that brought Greece back and paying dearly for marble - not Kallimarro, to repeat - the Greek people. I would like to ask directly about mildness and boldness, Minister, which distinguishes you, and I hope you will put a little bit of stone: can we even get the remaining ruins together at the last hour or whatever else can be used in so-called mass sport? Some efforts worth 100 million were made from the PHILOS programme, what can we salvage? These lost, the thirteenths are likely to know about - why responsibilities need to be attributed and not be omitted - what has been stolen from the property of the Greek people in electronic tables, in seats, in offices, in what can be imagined? I give an example. He's in a court dispute in Patras, because there at the swimming pool of Agia was suddenly looted. The roof that left the swimming pool was located two miles [2 km] away, if I remember correctly, to be roofed in a factory. There was a party and the party didn't go on, because what they were stealing was stolen. At least do we know above how many were stolen or whether some of them could be held accountable to thieves? There were guardians of guys, supermarkets, to say it like that, in these Olympic projects. Anyway, the next day is hard. I think you've visited Olympic Village. You saw what things were like. And you gave the credit to some clubs, "OFOLS", "DIA". Is that so?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u88	Have you gone?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u89	I haven't been. You went and give, I say, the credit to some clubs that were helping. I've been to the periphery, it's another comedian situation. I'm not talking about it. The stadium in Serres, the national stadium, put a tatar after a celebration. It was a coaching work, but the tartan entered two - three years later. That's what happened elsewhere. The question is what we can collect, what we can save, and whether some of them can be used in what we call'mass sport'. The only positive thing I've seen all these years - there are some positive ones - is the two thousand nineteen apartments with 300 euros a square, given by a draw to some of the beneficiaries in Olympiacos Village. Everything else is a situation, unfortunately, hermaphrodite. That's how I describe it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Buba. Mr. Ausgeakis, you have three minutes for your dentistry, although you have said so. And I've visited Olympiacos Village and it's the way you call it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u91	My dear colleague, you should have visited the facilities when you talk about them. I am not saying this to God - but it would help you to have a better picture, to compare yourself with your criticism of the government with a little more flexible, because it has, admittedly, been a job. If you could have visited before or now even the Olympic Village, you would definitely have a different view. Of course, the publications you showed are 2015. Don't tidy up. The offer of the Olympic Games is important and useful in the course of our country. If no appropriate use was then made or no use was made, it is another conversation. However, we do not deny the value, role and contribution of the Olympic Games at that time. I want to start by saying a great deal of good and great thanks to all the administrations of our sports clubs, which operate in vain, but with absolute professionalism, with a lot of consistency, with a great deal of sense and sense and work as an extension of our ministry and the political leadership. I'm starting very quickly and specifically. First of all, I shall refer to the OAS. We have also done the 'OECD' hashtag, something changes' to show the changes that are taking place, comparing it with the present one. First of all, garbage was removed and warehouses were cleaned, spaces that had been abandoned as much as the environment. Conservation and restoration of sports infrastructure of the Olympic complex “Spyros Luis”, replacement of damaged equipment of all facilities, restoration of damaged infrastructure. The first phase has already been implemented and we are already in the second phase, and work is under way on reconstruction, infrastructure and logistics of the central Olympic stadium and the two open aid fields - coaches, etc. Work on reconstruction and insulation on roofs of closed swimming pool and closed gym "Nikos Galis". Reconstruct and fence the entry and exit doors. Energy upgrade. Energy saving, reduction of the energy footprint and an integrated waste management system of the Olympic complex. Peace and Friendship Stage. And here's something going on. The rebuilding of a conference hall and the creation of a new multipurpose hall have already been carried out. Create two new tennis courts. Lake prison transfer. Loading traffic bars. Control, i.e. housekeeping and class at the main entrance and parking area. Nine acres, please, neglected, today checked and operating properly. Create new modern playground in the surroundings. Installation of shades for energy saving and aesthetic upgrading in the glazing perimeter of the central arena and replacement and upgrade with modern environmentally friendly lighting LED in coachrooms 5 and 6. They are also in progress: Channel regeneration, parking facilities upgrades and maintenance and refreshing work on the coastal front of the BSE, which was prolonged. To be honest, it was a dump by the sea. St. Cosmas National Center. Works on cleaning and repairing the roofing watercourses of the closed regulator and gymnastics, as well as work on colouring of closed sports facilities and support facilities of our sports centre. Insulation work - please - to our athletes' hostels, who have been abandoned for too many years. There was humidity, a disgusting image, and already many of the hostels are neat and maintained. Deterioration work for safe operation of the open swimming pool. Works for the maintenance of platforms, platforms, tracks and ballistic missiles. Restoration of pipes - hold this - swimming tank 'Capagerov' in Piraeus. Reminded, as if it hadn't even been in the mind of the Ministry of Sports. Now, not just there, it's maintained and started, to upgrade it as it should be. We are, of course, going to the major theme at the LAMDA DEVELOPMENT. We signed a memorandum of understanding and cooperation for the transfer and development of the facilities of Agios Kosmas within the Metropolitan Park of Prasinos and Recreation, the metropolitan pole of Greek - Agios Kosmas. The memorandum provides for existing sports facilities, with all their activities, functions and facilities to remain in operation until their implementation and in stages replace them with corresponding facilities within the Metropolitan Park of Prasinos and Recreation. The thematic city of sports activities includes the transfer and development of the facilities of Agios Kosmas, which would also serve both the residents of neighbouring areas and the visitors of the park from the wider Attica area. The relocation of each of the substitutable sports facilities will be implemented gradually, upon completion of the construction of each new installation within the Metropolitan Park. In other words, it will only close the existing one when the new one is ready and delivered into use. Sniper Biron. We have appointed command, firstly, because there has been nothing for too many years. We have already launched the procedures for the following projects: Work on completing the firing field of twenty-five metres, construction of a dam, installation of electrical equipment, machinery and, of course, additional work necessary for the firing field, heating, cooling of ten meters, placing of rolls and a series of other operations which have not been done for too many years, with zero employees in the area in question. Olympic Sports Village, to which you referred. We completed the process of transferring ownership from the OAED - please, I did not understand why - in the General Secretariat of Sports just three and a half months ago. A temporary management committee was appointed to prepare programming and prepare all necessary actions in cooperation with the Municipality of Acharnon, with local sports clubs and with the entire sports family of the wider region, in order to make it self-evident, to create a modern, safe facility, for the benefit of the region, as well as the whole of the sports family. A series of approved fire safety studies were delivered to the GAA's Technical Services and Sports Department in order to take the other steps needed to obtain permissions. The self-evident thing is that, unfortunately, this has not been done for too many years. Deal with the Organizing Committee of the Third World Games of Work Sport for hosting sports at our premises. Check all mechanical, electrical installations of the two closed and swimming pools for issuing the required certificates. Ano Liosia Olympic Center. We signed with CEE AEK, the Municipality of Florida, the SEF and eight federations of combat sports that make use of the installation, a memorandum of cooperation for the exploitation of the Olympic Centre Ano Liosia. And there we didn't have a single worker, even a cucumber for the eyes of the world. Whatever operated, as it operated, what was left, operated with the charity of some Feds of combat sports and the municipality of the region. This is, in fact, the first after too many years, the exploitation of sporting Olympic installation. That's right, my dear colleague. Sixteen years after the 2004 Olympic Games it becomes the first correct use of the Olympic installation. The Ano Liosia Olympic Centre is the most important cultural and sporting project built so far in the wider region of Western Attica, as well as one of the most modern facilities throughout Europe. Based on the Memorandum of Cooperation, the CEF is leased by the CEF to CEE AEK the entire sporting installation of the Ano Liossia Olympic Centre, as well as certain venues within the same sporting facility in the Federations of Fighting Sports, which will now be legally and transparently operated. They will remain in the facilities by paying a small price, but symbolic, so that we all know they are housewife and mainly operate transparently. Sports place at the Schismos Korydalou. We proceeded with the granting to the Municipality of Korydallos the expropriation from GGA of a hundred and fifteen acres in Shhisto, an area of former quarries. In other words, we welcome a consistent request from the local society that had been pending for two decades and started before the 2004 Athens Olympic Games. Two decades, ladies and gentlemen. At the end of the concession, the construction of a sports centre, which will include football stadiums, tracks and stadiums of about five thousand seats, swimming pool, closed gym and other football stadiums. These too, in full cooperation with the municipal authority, but of course also with the Region of Attica. Sports facilities, and I conclude, Mr Colleague, that you are struggling to finish. We signed a cooperation agreement with the Region of Attica and the Municipality of Paiania on the reopening of closed gyms: "Home of the Closed Attica" and "Voley House". The coaching centre for tracks and volleyballs were abandoned and of course they had stolen everything, even cables from the walls. Following the cooperation agreement that we have signed, studies have already been launched to reflect the damage and to cost the necessary work for the repair and renovation of sports facilities. In this context, we plan to carry out the work and manage and operate the gyms, as should, in full cooperation with a municipality, a region and a Ministry of Sports. My dear colleague - Mr President, thank you for the tolerance - I only confine myself to the Olympic facilities of the Attica Lecade. I wish I had time to talk about both the important progress and the work that has already been done in the national sports centres, but also about the sports infrastructure that the municipalities have in many cases been abandoned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Booba's other question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u93	That is why I am telling you that I would be very happy to have more time to have a more extensive debate. We are here, at your disposal, and we are proud of the work that is done in a short time. But with a very tight program and methodicity, it works, and I'm happy about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u94	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Have a good day to both of you. Tell your partners to limit the time, that you have three minutes. We shall proceed with the debate on three topical and urgent questions, which are as follows: The third, with number 40/9-10-2020, is a top-stage question by MP B1' North Athens Sector of the Change Movement Mr.Andreas Loverdos to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Funding business in the middle of the pandemic". The second question under number 44/12-10-20 is the second question of the Member of the Ilias Parliamentary of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'The liquidity tools for small enterprises'. The fourth under number 56/12-10-2020 is a topical question from the Member of the Hercules Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Annulment of the unfair and unjust and unjust exclusion of thousands of beneficiaries from the programmes of the Ministry of Development financed by the European Union concerning the strengthening of small and micro-enterprises'. The topical and urgent questions are on the same subject and will be discussed at the same time, without, of course, affecting the rights of Members of Parliament in their speaking time - although you will now escape, I see you - in accordance with Rule 131(4) of the Rules of Procedure. First, the youngest and oldest will take the floor, Mr. Loverdos. Here, Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u95	I would like to begin, Mr President, with something that has saddened me since yesterday. I was informed of the death of George Delastik, a journalist very important, particularly consistent with his political life, with whom we met immediately after the fall of the dictatorship. I knew his anti-judgmental fight and I underline the consistency with which he stood in his life in relation to the views he defended. Minister, I happened to be here waiting for you and I heard the previous Minister. Approximately Greek and Greek women in the field of sport will eat with golden spoons. I'm sorry about the look of the answer. Because I'm elected and living in Attica, I'm going to check one by one of the things he said. I will take the Minutes, Mr President, and I will check them one by one, because we have to land in the harsh reality. In relation to the economy and business, the reality is very hard. I tabled my question on 9 October, asking how many companies exist in Greece, how they are classified - very small, small, medium-sized, large - and what are the amounts of aid by means of loans taken at the time of the pandemic and the very great recession? A few days later, in the financial report and in particular ‘KATHMERINI’, these data emerged. So we're talking with common numbers, because the newspaper can't get evidence from insolvent sources. Apparently he got it from the perfectly official. We are therefore talking now about the criteria which all four have in common. Very small businesses, Mr President, is 97% of the country's businesses. Starting with them, I would like to say that in my view I have two sources of funding from the Development Bank, TPIX II - the Entrepreneurship Fund II - and the Guarantee Fund. These two are. Now we're going to the very small business. From 97% of enterprises - that is, not the backbone of the economy, much of the economy - was strengthened at this critical period only 2%. Just 2%! The figures, at least in relation to the number of enterprises, are not disputed, because I have the factsheet, the European Commission, 2018, with the full recording of the figures, and they are as I say them. 97% of enterprises are very small and only 2% have access to the assistance of the Greek state through lending. As regards small businesses, they account for 2.4% of all enterprises in the country. How many have been borrowed? One out of four. So we're coming up. As far as medium-sized enterprises are concerned, they account for only 0.3% of the country's enterprises. These are better in terms of aid. One in two was reinforced. Let's end to the big ones. Things here are very different. Of the three hundred seventy-six, thirty-five were strengthened. I am not the one who will say that 'what a tragic situation this is'. Everything is in favour of rich and large businesses. I know, I'm experienced enough, and I'm particularly trained to know that big business and medium-sized enterprises offer. They offer productivity, exports, added value. They're offering! To God! But here, we have numbers showing that there is indifference for the vast majority of Greek businesses. Because I do not want to be wrong, - I have heard with my ears the Minister clash with the banks - I have accepted in Parliament as a means of creating an observatory. I also welcomed the creation of a observatory from the Bank of Greece. Since we talked about this, since May, it has been five, six difficult months to see that nothing has happened. We have not even learned whether there are any observations from the observers! What do the observatory see, Mr President? What do observers observe that leads to measures, to support? We are, Minister, in the run-up to a very difficult year. It was actually buried in communication - and this is what I am ending, Mr President - the emergence by one of your own people in the European Parliament, Maria Spyraki, the problem of vaccines. Mrs Spyraki attended the joint meeting of the European Parliament's Committees on Industry and Health. Two of the largest businesses trying to discover vaccines - the Oxford did not attend - announced that the first billion dose for the COVID pandemic -19 will be ready by the end of 2021. It's coming a long year! It's a tough year! This kind of political support has proved to be really inadequate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Loverdos. It follows from Mr Katrin's timely question: 'The liquidity tools that are available to small businesses'. Mr. Katrinis has the floor for two minutes. And don't tell me how much Mr. Aygeakis spoke. You guys at least respect the Bureau. You've shown it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u97	I'll try to imitate Mr. Loverdos, Mr. President. Minister, I want to return the time back, six months ago, on 2 April 2020. We had discussed an up-to-date question, where I raised you concerns about the very strict banking criteria that were set as a precondition for participating in the liquidity instruments you announced. Then you told me that I was with the batters, that liquidity would go to the market, and that we would have to stop the Change Movement defending strategic malpractices with me. So I listened with great interest and respect for your admonition and waited for the time to pass. I asked you a question you asked on 6 August about TEPIX II, where, on the basis of Mrs Hatzietro's official document, you say that 12 000 nine hundred twenty loans totalling EUR 1.8 billion were approved, while the Guarantee Fund did not exist. It was mentioned before by Mr. Loverdos about the elements of “KATTERIN” where he talks about 5,1 billion euros from the Guarantee Fund and TEPIX II. What's the matter? Just two thousand seven hundred companies with a turnover of up to EUR 100,000, which are the small and medium-sized enterprises, received a loan from the liquidity tools and received 2.4% of all the money provided from the liquidity instruments on average - listen, Mr President! - 42,000 euros. At the same time, the magical picture shows that very small and small enterprises that have as ten employees have received 68% of the money. But they are businesses with huge turnovers since the amount finally approved by the banks was related to the business turnover. And I say this, Mr President, and Minister, because in Mrs Chatzipetros's own document, it is stated that the Greek Development Bank does not primarily approve the requests for funding, but receives the requests that the banks have assessed positively. So the criteria were set by the banks and the choices made by the banks. So what's the result? It appears that several companies were borrowed from both liquidity instruments and some were completely out. Some used the TEIX II loan as a cash collateral to borrow from the Guarantee Fund much larger amounts with 80% Greek State guarantee while some other companies stayed outside. This, then, seems to me to have pushed the Development Bank, which, by a decision published on 16 September 2020, saw the Development Bank form a special cartel in liquidity tools, makes a decision and says that in the second phase of TPIX there are the following conditions: firstly, only companies that applied for the first phase of TPIX, but their application was not approved because of the non-availability of resources, and secondly, they cannot be re borrowed again, which had already received a loan in the first phase of TPIX and the Guarantee Fund. I shall conclude, Mr President. So this rational decision of the Development Bank, as Andreas Loverdes referred to before the Responsibility Observatory, has changed - and I am not mistaken if I am wrong - by decision of your Ministry's Investment Committee, so that second-phase money can also be given to companies that have taken money in the first phase. Two questions: Beyond the commitment, which is a positive measure, of EUR 220 million for companies that have a turnover of up to EUR 200,000 per year and are indeed small and micro-enterprises, will you establish additional criteria for real small enterprises to get money in the second phase of liquidity tools, and indeed small companies based on a turnover rather than on a number of employees? And, secondly, the decision of the Development Bank that sets preconditions and incompatible between the first and second phases of the liquidity tools will you implement it so that more money can be made to more powerful small and medium-sized enterprises that really need them at this juncture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr Katrin. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor, who will imitate Mr Katrin who imitate Mr. Loverdos. The question by Mr Kegoroglou relates to the 'Arrival of the unfair and unjust exclusion of thousands of beneficiaries from the programmes of the Ministry of Development financed by the European Union concerning the aid of small and micro-enterprises'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Mr President, Mr Loverdos and Mr Katrinis presented the picture of lending to ensure liquidity in enterprises. These figures show clearly that, first of all, we have a small amount of needs. It's a big amount, but needs are much more. So it's small in terms of needs. The second element is that there is inequality between the different categories of enterprises. Some 75%, in the middle of one in two applications, 50% of applications, and in the smallest. In the very small ones there is not even access. The third element is that for a non-refundable advance or non-refundable amount, that is to say, in the category of grants anymore, we do not have a significant amount that can support businesses. And I come to the contents of my question. They were announced by the regions of Crete, in the context of the more general programme promoted by the Ministry of Development, the conditions and conditions, in order to support the operations that were affected, with 3,000, 4,000, 5 000 to 30,000, 40,000, 50,000, 50,000, depending on the region, in order to meet the difficulties. We have issues that have to do with exclusion from the possibility of applying. First of all, the self-employed, the professionals are excluded. Excluded are enterprises that have been set up since 1-1-19 or have been previously, but have received new VAT for some reasons of change. We have an exclusion from companies - companies and activities in general - which, for various reasons, have not been described as affected and which does not operate for them as evidence of the damage they have suffered. There are problems and protests by operators, even on moleculosis, for the time taken into account in comparing last year's and this year's - which is why the damage - is, of course, asking for it to be greater, but also problems in terms of how businesses are mobilised. The final result: A calculation was made by the Chamber of Crete to the Federation of Commercial Associations, the Federation of Professionals and Crafts who have also sent a letter to the Professional Director, first, which I will present to you, Minister. What are they saying? That the sum of 50 million provided for Crete with the moleculation system, without a quota among the very small, small or various categories, will get it by a thousand two hundred businesses all the amount of 50 million - which will catch the ceiling of the moleculation, and that is a real situation. In addition to increasing the amount and qualitative differentiation in the criteria, it is therefore necessary to ensure that those who are excluded are included, but to ensure that they receive, even small and medium-sized enterprises in need, self-employed and people who are experiencing the difficulties at the present time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much Mr Kegeroglu. The Minister for Development and Investment will answer Mr.Adonis Georgiadis. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for nine minutes. You could have been out of your position, too, but that's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. That's better than this. I have three excellent colleagues. Besides, I have plenty of time. I don't know if it's gonna be nine minutes. I'm not sure. Seven minutes before Mr. Loverdos spoke, everyone together has spoken about seventeen minutes. Can I take nine minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u102	Well, that's what you're doing. You are so capable that in nine minutes you can overthrow the entire Change Movement that you have in front of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u103	Leave it now, it's okay, since you're noble in time, be noble to everyone. We're closing parentheses. Close the timer. It doesn't matter. We are now going to one - one of the answers - and I am sure we will have - with the three of us a good debate. What does Mr. Loverdes and the other two colleagues, Mr. Kegeroglu and Mr. Katrinis ask me? It's in the same direction and I'll explain then. What measures has the government taken to provide liquidity to businesses. This is the main issue, what liquidity we give businesses. It's not what loans we're giving business. The loans, my dear colleague, Andreas Loverdos, that is, TPIX II and the Guarantee Fund, are one of the liquidity instruments we have established. Let's take a look at all the liquidity projects we've established? Firstly, we have introduced through a series of laws to provide liquidity seriousness for all companies affected by the freezing of their cheques, the reductions in rents with 40% that they paid, the freezing of tax payments for the insurance funds they paid, the freezing of the instalments of the loans they paid. For every undertaking that every month had to make 100% of the rent, all the insurance contributions, all the tax payments, all the payments on loans and so on, and so on, the fact that they do not pay what it means? That that money she would get out of her fund eventually stays at her fund. This is therefore a provision of liquidity and indeed a great provision of liquidity and a very serious provision of liquidity. The second category of measures, which you have not mentioned, is the repayable advance, which is an ESDP programme. The repayable advance in contrast to the two tools, which I shall refer to in the end, has exactly...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u104	One...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u105	It's an NSRF, and the rest is through the fund, which I'll explain from where to then. However, it is European money in principle. So these money, beware, have a completely reverse structure than what you mentioned in the loans before. The repayable advance of 1, 2 and 3- yesterday was credited for for forty-two thousand businesses with 252 million to three and have received to date eighty-five thousand businesses. Small and micro-enterprises, Andreas Loverdos, are 90% of them. Nine out of ten are small and very small in the repayable advance. Why is 90% of the repayable advance for small and very small, while 80% of the guarantee loans are large, in the corresponding indicator you mentioned? For the very simple reason. The repayable advance was not granted on the basis of bank criteria. And we have already announced that a large part of this will not be returned at the end, and already today the Minister of Finance for the repayable advance 4 has announced that 50% will be non-refundable for all those areas that go to Lockdown, for example Kosani. So where the criteria are non-banking and the debt is to the state, there the criteria are lower and so micro-enterprises and micro-enterprises enter and take the lion's share, while where the criteria are bank and, in particular, how large, there the criteria are bank. I'm coming to explain it to Mr. Catarini so he can understand it. It's the conversation we had six months ago and insists. I have shown that I respect the Change Movement as a serious party. Why is the Change Movement a serious party? Because the Change Movement and as PASOK paid its cost to stay in the euro and went from 40% to 13% and is the party that has made difficult decisions in a difficult time. This party cannot recommend to the government to force banks to provide loans without bank criteria. I disagree with 100%. Because if the government pushes the banks to give loans without banking criteria, this means that we are telling the markets and the world community that for political reasons we are putting banks at risk of bankruptcy and collapse and new recapitalisation. What does that mean? You've lived through them, Mr. President. Loverdo, Katrin and Kegeroglou. Bank ran, capital controls, closure of operations. Is that what you're saying? This means loans without banking criteria. Here we are not going to destroy Greece. Here we say how we will keep businesses open without the next day of the Greek economy collapse and, of course, the stability of the banking system. Just so that we can achieve this goal, the tools are different depending on the structure of businesses and the diversity and not just two. Let's go to the loan now. Loans are either TPIX II, where the Development Bank, i.e. the public, the interest of two years and a guarantee piece, or are guaranteed, where the bank pays a large part of the guarantee, does not mean that they have no risk to the banks. Watch why they have a risk to the banks. And TPIX and the guarantee is ESRB money. The way we used the ESRB money was through the banking system to have the famous leverage, that is to say, to take the money off. We have so far put together about, in real money, 3 billion and that has become 10 billion. This is leverage through the banking system. How the leverage is made. A large part of the risk, despite our guarantees, is still being taken by the banks. So if you go and tell them: Give loans to businesses you know in advance that they will not return it to you, it means that the Change of New Round of Red Loans is being proposed in the future. I cannot believe that any of you who have lived through the 2010 events are coming to the House and recommends a new round of red loans to Greece. I consider this to be an act of extreme irresponsibility. I'll make it clear. So what do we do? 'We go,' so we give liquidity to all businesses and to the very small ones, we give a repayable advance, which a lot of it will be given to and therefore go to small and small businesses - there is no risk to the banking system from there, it is public, we handle this money - and then we give the loans to which companies now? In those businesses that will return them. And because they will return them or so the banks will judge on their own criteria - what they must have - we do not create concern on the market for a new round of red loans, we do not put the banking system at risk, there is no risk of bank run, there is no fear of a new recapitalisation. And so with all the measures we keep the Greek economy alive. However, I should also like to reply to the specific figures so that I do not seem to be avoiding them. As far as TENs II is concerned, they have been disbursed to date - these are the latest figures -1.74 billion. The total is 12 thousand two hundred and two small and medium-sized enterprises. I would stress the'small-mediums' for TEPIX II, because there has also been a great spiral here. I was constantly listening to it and I was told in my office: "The big business took over." But, by definition, TEIX only referred to up to EUR 500,000 and only to small and medium-sized enterprises. Couldn't have been a big business getting TEPIX. He couldn't apply for the online platform. Twelve thousand two and two thousand small and medium-sized enterprises have therefore taken TEPIX II, of which - I reply to the question - eight thousand three hundred sixty are very small companies. As far as the Guarantee Fund is concerned, it has so far given EUR 3 billion. Approximately the first phase of the Guarantee is over. The second phase should have begun this week. It hasn't begun. It's all over. The amendment to the increase in the Public Investment Programme must be voted on to ensure that budgetary appropriations are available and that it will start immediately. It's all set. He has given 3 billion to date. There are five thousand four hundred nine beneficiaries, five thousand forty-three small and medium-sized enterprises, namely 93.2%. But now we are going to explain Mr Katrin's questions, which I really want to answer in detail, so that it does not appear that I have avoided them. I read from the timely question: ‘Ineffective evidence is provided of the management of resources through TIPS II and the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, etc.’. In other words, we are inefficient. I'm tabling the Minutes to figure out exactly what we're doing at the Ministry of Development these fourteen months. Bruegel Institute: 'Greece is expected to have the third best performance this year in the absorption of Community funds'. I repeat: the third best performance in the European Union. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. IOBE: “In the five-year period 2015-2019 Greece lost EUR 6.3 billion from the development of the ESRB”. Take this too to make the comparison. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In fourteen months of Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and with the present leading team at the Ministry of Development - I do not now want to bless our beards, but it is not possible - Greece goes to the third place, exceeds the absorption record of the NRP in one year all the records from the first day we entered the European Union. We will close at the end of the year with 70% of the costs when we received them at 24%. So in a year of government, Mr. Mitsotakis, we've spent twice and something about the money that SYRIZA spent in five years. All this is money going to the real economy. If you had bothered to see the budget figures, you would see that in August, in the middle of a pandemic, Greece exceeded the target of the pre-family revenues, because they entered the revenues of 2.5 billion disbursements from the NRP, that is to say from the Ministry of Development and the tools we are discussing. And after all this, you come to the House with these facts and you start asking: 'Ineffective use of the ESDP'. Come make it more effective, Mr. Katrin. You go first, if you can. I have to say on the Minutes of this House that I was very honoured for that in the debate we had yesterday - I mean a week ago - with the Commissioner responsible, Mrs Westager, me and Mr Stagioras. Mrs Westager has officially given us congratulations and said that Greece is an example of how she handled ESDP money in the middle of a pandemic for all other European countries. That's what our government achieves and you come in a petty way to tell us that it's ineffective. And so that we do not seem to be blessing our beards on our own, as far as the whole of the measures are concerned - and I come to Mr Kegeroglu - we say that? Did you not see the report of the International Monetary Fund, which reviewed twice the improvements to its forecast of the recession in Greece in 2020, saying that the reason why we fell out in our initial assessments was that the measures taken by the Greek Government were timely and effective? The Commission, which was putting us last in the eurozone, changed its estimates twice by improving and says that the measures taken by the Greek Government are timely and effective. The International Monetary Fund changed its estimates of the recession in 2020 twice and said that the measures taken by the Greek Government are timely and effective. The markets have dropped the yield of the ten-year Greek bond under 0.80, that is, the lowest return of our history, from the Treaty of London of 1830 and the founding of the newest Greek state, on Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The markets in this way, in other words by making money, say that the measures taken by the Greek Government are timely and effective. But Catherine finds us ineffective! I respect that, Mr. Catarini. I wish you once again to rule and become more effective. I come to Mr Kegeroglu, whose question is very interesting - and I thank him - and it is extremely timely for this reason, because we are now starting all these programmes in the regions and I want a little bit to explain what they are. When we started the TPIX planning process and the guarantee tools, we had a long cooperation with the regional managers. And I want to thank everyone, each one personally, for their contribution to a critical moment where the pandemic started and we had to quickly build the tools. At this point I do not forget to mention that both of our main instruments, in terms of loans, namely TPIX II and the guarantee instrument, have not only disbursed the amounts that I have told you, which are a record, and I will close shortly after the liquidity observatory set by Andreas Lovertos - so not only did they go very well in terms of absorption - and better than we expected - but they were the first to operate throughout the European Union. We were the fastest of all the countries of the European Union. There are still countries - I do not want to name them, because I do not want to do so, you are looking for it and you find it - which announced such tools and today that we are talking about this month, October, they have not even started to give one euro. And we were the fastest of all, and we got credit from the European Commission as the first country to set up these tools! So you cannot recognize all this, do not see it and say no good talk, you of the Change Movement. I don't have you at SYRIZA level. You're not a SYRIZA! You're something else. Unless you want to be, which is a big conversation. So I return to Mr Kegeroglu's question, which is very correct and useful. So why is it right, Mr Kegeroglu? Because when we started talking to fix the tools, the first ones to put back - and I thank them - were the district managers. What did they do? They gave us money from their own rests, unstoppable by the NRP. We have transferred them to the development bank, to the EMCDDA, and we have transferred them to the guarantee accounts to work on TEIX and the guarantee card too quickly. So the speed I mentioned earlier is due to the regional authorities. Then we told them that when we get the guarantee and work and approve payment from the European Union - the approval came end July - we will automatically release you from the possibility of making your own support programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises in your regions. And the central Macedonia began and the other regions followed. In order to help them in this, we have notified centrally as the Ministry of Development and received the declaration of Central Macedonia and notified to all regions and have been approved for all regions, so that any region wants to go to declare such a programme. And not just that. While, to date, the notices made by the regions as a whole are for 800 million - what has been announced so far for such a programme from the regions is in total - we have already approved the European Commission to give them up to 1.5 billion. We are therefore more than double the programme that each region has made. And I answer Mr. Kegeroglu who says he would like more money. We're rushing so we can find more money, since of course the resources are found, or whether it's from reallocation of the NRP, etc. But we have room until June. We got, you know, and an extension of time. Normally, the original programmes required that we have absorbed them by 31 December. We asked the committee for an extension until 30 June. They also gave us the extension until 30 June, and they gave us more credit. So the programs can work. As far as criteria are concerned, there are two models so far chosen by the regions. One model, the one of central Macedonia - I mention it because it was the first one, has now been the Region of Attica, the Region of Epirus, the Region of Thessaly, the Region of Crete, not to say one of the regions, all do - it puts the CISs. Who CAR? They took the SARs that the Ministry of Finance had announced as being hit by the initial phase of the crisis. We were actually enlarging these SARs, putting in other SARs and creating the proclamation that you know and to which you referred, Mr Kegeroglu. There's a second model. The second model is the one followed by the Region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, where they did not put any CAR at all. There they go with de minimis and they say "we give everyone". Every program has plus other, if you want me to explain it in my dentistry. I do not want to say who is right and who is wrong, because every district officer is autonomous and we ask him to do what he wants with his programmes. Is that right? And it's judged by the people who vote for him. I'm saying every program has plus and out. Now, as far as the major issue you have raised for 2019 companies or for those who have changed VDUs is concerned, there is indeed a problem, but it is not solved easily and I will tell you what the reason is. All these programmes - and the reason why the European Commission is giving us money and we are spending the NSRF on them is that they are directed at businesses that have been damaged by COVID -19. That's not money she's supposed to take a business to cover her old debts. It's not money that a business gets because it owed the bank or tax office in 2019, in 2018, in 2017, so it's now going to take that money to cover that debt. That's money given to cover the damage to COVID -19. That is why the basic criterion is the reduction of turnover, which is why the main criterion is the number of workers before and after. When you have a new business, there's no such comparative evidence, you can't prove you've got a turnover cut. That is the main problem and it is not easy to have European money, but I said that for all of them we have all the other programmes I mentioned before, not to say them again at the beginning. In any case, we are monitoring, Mr Kegeroglu, how the regions respond. After all, they are in constant consultation with the Ministry of Development and with me all the regional authorities in the first place, together we have designed them, we have encouraged them, by my personal letter to the President of their regional authorities, and I have encouraged them to proceed with these programmes to support small and medium-sized enterprises. But we must also be fair and honest with the world. Even if we were to manage to find extra resources and reach 1.5 billion euros, then there would still be no money for all the businesses in each region. Please note - and I am closing with this to understand the size of the money - that as far as the repayable advance '1, 2, 3' is concerned, EUR 2.1 billion has been disbursed so far, TEIX has disbursed almost EUR 2 billion, the Guarantee Fund has disbursed almost EUR 3 billion. So automatically we go to 3 and 2 to 5 and 2 equals EUR 7 billion of real money that has fallen into the market. If I add to this the freezing of debts I have previously said and the rest, you go about twice the amount - so a lot of money has already fallen - still not enough for business. They will now go to them and the EUR 800 million in the regions, which is easier because that is where they enter and companies that do not have banking criteria and could not obtain a loan from the banks and we will increase it - if we need more. Take note of all this - and I have the Deputy Minister, Mr Papathanassis, and I thank him - that we have achieved a huge increase in state aid for the development law, the EUR 500 million we have made 2 billion. We have already announced two developmental cycles, the first ended on 31 July, the other one expired on 31 October and, if necessary, we will go to a third if additional resources are available. So we're going to give 2 billion euros to businesses through development projects and state aid, tax exemptions or money cash, depending on the plan. And to say that here we are in a responsible manner and logical to act on the basis of the evolution of the pandemic and whether it comes or doesn't come the vaccine, which, Mr. Loverdo, I don't know if it's coming at the end of 2021. I don't know. I hope it will prove to be coming at the end of 2020. I don't know, but you're right. The PFIZER I am watching and the CEO I spoke to in my office insists that he has a vaccine at the end of the year. I wish PFIZER or any other company had it! I wish there was a vaccine and the pandemic would retreat! I don't know. What I certainly know is that, because in 2021, it will be a difficult year, no matter how hard things are - we went to emergency measures in Kozani yesterday, for example, we do not know what dawns us tomorrow at this strange time in which we live - we need to hold back forces and we need the way we handle the tools not to cause concern on the markets. To imagine, ladies and gentlemen, if the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis had not handled all this crisis so responsibly and now we did not enjoy 0.77% and 0.75% interest rates and 0.80% and we had an 8% interest rate and we needed a memorandum to borrow, what would happen? This government is keeping us away from this fear in the way we have handled the crisis, and that is why we have also won the confidence of the markets, that the measures we are taking are important for the market. And we are keeping businesses alive - as far as possible - but the measures do not raise concerns either about the stability of the banking system or debt stability, because we also have this parameter, Mr Loverdos, which we need to deal with without other states. And not only is Greece doing it - and I am proud of it - but it does it in a way that its markets give it a vote of confidence. Well, not everyone can give a vote of confidence in Greece too, to listen to Mr Katrin saying that measures are ineffective! It's too much!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u106	You're done. You have a second language, Minister. They're quite interesting, so I left the Minister. I know you have a lot of questions. So let's start with Mr. Loverdo. Here, Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u107	I would like to begin, Mr President, by saying that I did not understand the tension of the Minister for Development. Obviously, the government is ineffective in its policy, when we record the needs and in the face of these needs, the interventions of the government. This is an open account that creates serious debate in Parliament. That's what we're doing now. We didn't raise any fingers. We are not ignoring the problems created by the pandemic, but in view of the problems that come and in view of the problems we have suffered, we are trying to see what will happen on the market. I have, Mr Georgiadis, had a very interesting conversation of confrontation and understanding with Mr Stakoura when he came out and said that the Greek economy could withstand the problems that pandemic creates. I said, "Yes. You mean public finances." Obviously! Let us go to the private economy too, however, to see whether it can withstand, because you can support society with a number of measures, for example, which concern workers - are or are not satisfactory, but in many cases are not, but there are some such measures, namely, EUR 800, or about EUR 500, which have been made - but the businessman is going to take 2021. What are the prospects for him? Those who do, Mr Georgiadis, endurance budgets by April 2021, if the evolution is what we are learning from the European Parliament about this year, what will they do? How will the Greek economy be dealt with when companies close behind each other if they are not strengthened? We're not ruining. We share the problems. Alas! But we are looking to see if the measures are sufficient. We do not see sufficient resources in certain specific areas that all three of us have stressed. The debate is off, then. The conversation's off! None of us have raised that issue. I have also been following your confrontation with Mr Katrin and I do not see any reason to start discussions on this content, which, in my opinion, are all void. Secondly, as far as I am concerned, I asked you about the loans. I didn't ask you about anything else. You did well to expand into all the measures. For loans, however, that many expected, but did not see, you set up an Observatory. What did this Observatory observe? My question in this respect is off. Mr. Georgiadis has a dentex. What did Mr Stournaras observe with his own Observatory and what measures were taken in view of these observations? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You mentioned the twelve thousand seven hundred, very small enterprises that were borrowed. Mr President, twelve thousand seven hundred and seventy-seven micro-enterprises have been borrowed. They had a help from all these processes currently in existence from Development, from the Guarantee Fund and from TPAX II. Do you know how many very small ones are in total? It's eight hundred seven thousand six hundred sixty-six. Can you be proud of the twelve thousand? You have to keep the tone of voice very low when these are numbers. Now, because you have made a record - I will take it - of the sums given by the various forms of aid and have included the returnee, I would like to ask you a small specific question for the returnee. Why were the self-employed excluded from returning number 3? Why were self-employed excluded? He just sent it to me by a businessman who today is the first day with a closed shop on Ermos Street! Dramas! It was a prom business that was going very well! It closed this morning! Secondly, Mr President, I would say that anyone who monitors the financial columns of the good report has to win. So I read that the Economic Analysis Directorate of the National Bank identified the reduction of the turnover from the pandemic to EUR 50 billion. To weigh them now, at 50 billion, the loss of cigarettes and measures that have been taken, what is the final calculation we can make? We can do a lot of calculations. Above all, however, Mr President, we can see a very problematic future for Greek entrepreneurship, that is, for the Greek economy, in other words everything. Because if the Greek economy is working fast and good, for everything there is money. If it doesn't work, I don't see the money that Mr. Autgeakis just shared in the air. There is also a special issue before I say my last sentence and I close. There is the specific issue, Mr Georgiadis, with the change of VAT on certain undertakings. When the operation, Mr President, has the same title, it works in the same room, with the same employees, it changes VDU, it is excluded from everything. Why? They're not scumbags. They've changed shape. Why? Why is that so? It's a very unfair measure. I've spotted it from the market hearings, and I'm filing it here. Finally, if one summarizes all of what we are thinking about all three and our party and monitors the dialogue that is taking place and the problems above all in the Greek economy, I understand that the government tells the eight hundred thousand owners of very small businesses: "Blue without special support at the core of the perfect storm of recession and the lack of lending - because I have raised this issue - and then someday the sun of Greece will come out and enjoy it." That is not the case, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u108	Thank you too, Mr. Loverdos. Mr. Katrin, three minutes for you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. I was indeed surprised by the Minister, because he usually answers the questions put to parliamentary scrutiny. In both questions I raised first, what will it do to make money for the real small businesses and, secondly, to implement the Development Bank's decision which was incompatible with the first and second phases and with which the Ministry changed, I did not receive any reply. Look, Minister, we have every right to express our opinion as to whether or not a minister's presence and works are ineffective. But I agree that what matters is the effectiveness of judging it by the government, by the Prime Minister, who sometimes judges it with moves, changes, various minor modifications. However, since you referred to the repayable advance as a truly effective liquidity measure along with everything else, I would like to ask you my question, because on September 12th, Mr Mitsotakis, when he analysed the twelve measures of liquidity and economic aid, while he referred to the repayable advance, he did not make any reference to the second cycle of TEPIX II and the Guarantee Fund. I do not know whether he escaped it or rather he did not want to say it again as a major tool for strengthening the liquidity and the real economy. I will not say about the absorption of funds that are really great, but you know why it is great. It has been said, and when BSE said that it went from 35% to 55% because of the flexible use of COVID -19. You said about the banks. I remember you personally saying that you will ruin your hearts with the banks in the way they decide to proceed with the loans through the liquidity instruments. I would therefore ask you, following the announcement of these results, if you are satisfied with the way in which the money was given. You say 'the money'. Very good. We told you before: 'Where did the money go?' You say 'They took the money to small and medium-sized enterprises'. Do you want me to remind you, why are you a European Parliamentarian, that, on the basis of the Community definition, a small and medium-sized enterprise is considered to have EUR 10 to EUR 50 million and employs fifty as two hundred and fifty people, and on the basis of that definition, they have joined the liquidity instruments? We're not only interested in them. We are interested in companies that have fewer than 50 workers and less than 10 million euros. You said about the banks that they should not be forced to give loans so that the banking system would not be compromised. At the same time, Minister, what did you say? That the public can provide loans, which will probably not get back, to people who do not meet these criteria, which will be added to the public debt, which will increase the ratio of debt to GDP, which is the main criterion for the borrowing rate and the behaviour of the markets towards our country. You said these two things. We're interested in the banks, we don't care about the money we give as a loan through the repayable advance. Now we come and ask you in good faith: is there a second phase of the liquidity tool? We agree that in the first phase the money did not go to small and medium-sized enterprises, the real small and very small ones. The elements of "KATHMERINI", which you did not deny, show that. They took her money back in advance. What do we have right now, Minister? Based on the budget, the Greek Government says that in 2021 it will not give money for a repayable advance, 0 euros. At the same time as we are now talking, on the first floor, we are discussing the Bankruptcy Code, which I am sure you read its provisions - which will start from 1-1-2021 - you will recur. So traders, professionals and small businesses know that on 1-1-2021 they will not get money from the state, from the repayable advance, they will have the bankruptcy code with adverse provisions and at the same time, their last chance is to get money from TEPIX II, the Guarantee Fund in the second phase. That's the basis of the question we're telling you. Ensure the criteria so that the money reaches micro-enterprises. And one last thing I know, Minister, that you are interested in, because you are an addict and a fan of competition. I want you to investigate your data - I have asked them for documents - to see which companies received money from TEIX II, from the Guarantee Fund. The answer I have received informally - I don't know if you're embracing it - is that it's personal data and we can't give it away. But be careful. At the same time as you say that the money given by the Greek State is personal data from the banks and we cannot disclose it, the businessman who took the octakos has to put him out of his shop that he received 800 euros. Isn't that a personal given? So, for the person who took 800 euros, does the whole society have to know about it, and for the person who took from EUR 5 million and EUR 10 million is a personal given? Check, then, in the sensitive air transport sector how many companies, Minister, who met the conditions, have applied for TEPIX II, the Guarantee Fund and how many were finally adopted. Because, when the government does not decide and decide on by the banks and in a sector which operates three companies, namely, only one of them is borrowed, that means that the monopoly is automatically created and because I know that you support competition, I want you to investigate and correct it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much, Mr Catherine. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, whatever you said, no matter what you say, the Change Movement has shown that it is a responsible party, which has a programmed opposition. We strongly criticise you when your choices are not the ones that are appropriate, when your choices are wrong and do not meet the needs of society and the economy. At the same time, however, we are not appalled - and it seems from our texts and from the speeches from this step and even from the President - to say yes, this has gone in the right direction. However, the criticism which says that this does not go hand in hand with the necessary pace does not meet the needs, and at the same time we propose specific ways of improving measures and multiplying the effectiveness of the measures, this is neither a populist policy nor an unfair one, but it is appropriate for you to improve your government policy. Your speech could well be an answer to a question or question by SYRIZA, the JRC or another party. But not ours. We have said from the outset that the measure of the repayable advance seems to be more successful because the banks are not involved. It's the main criterion. That's why he's more successful. It's no bigger success because someone else made it than the one who made the previous ones. The reasons are specific. There is also a need to see how the banking system works, since there is money given elsewhere. Therefore, conciliation on rules is not an intervention in the banking system. The regional authorities must follow the adoption of national criteria. The district managers are not autonomous. They're self-government, but they're not autonomous. They don't live in another state. And it's not from local or regional taxation that money. It's from money from the Greek people as a whole. These national rules, therefore, are an obligation of the state to consult, of course, the government, political forces, but above all the social partners. SEE, GSEBEE and the chambers say "Yes, we have a measure and a tool at our disposal that is right". I'm saying that in my question. Mr. Katrinis is not talking about inefficiency for the people they took but about the people they didn't take. That is to say, for those who have not received and have not been satisfied, even though they are beneficiaries according to our own understanding and strict criteria, but because of the amount of funding, for example, they have not been met. What do they say? That it's effective? It's ineffective for them. We do not judge efficiency on the basis of the consumption of the amount available to us. You said it yourself. And it's your honor. It is not a question of spending amounts but of making use of them. That means the young and the very small. Why are freelance professionals excluded? The Chamber of Commerce is protesting. Excluded from professionals. A number of professionals are excluded from the invitation of the regions. I'm specific. There have been other measures to which they are beneficiaries. In particular, I refer to my question that this programme for the region's invitations to support small and micro-enterprises affected by the pandemic in order to be supported by the non-refundable grant is certainly in the right direction and is an important and necessary action plan to support them. Political placement. However, under conditions of subordination and evaluation, thousands of beneficiaries are practically excluded. In particular, they cannot participate. This is the answer to what you said about our opposition. We are proud of the way we practice it. For businesses which have proven to have a reduction in turnover, but for various reasons either your office or the office of the Minister for Rural Development did not consider that it should put these codes in the MCA affected, what will be the case? What did your office say about it? Or what does life say by reducing the turnover? That's a question. Since the reduction of the turnover shows that people are affected. You say to them 'yes, but did we not think about putting the CAR on the ground'? Is that the answer? Tell me why you don't care about certain CARs. We have pointed out to you, but also to institutions, that you have excluded them. Second element. According to the definition of small, micro-enterprises by Europe's directives and regulations, they are also self-employed. I have already pointed out this. You need to see how they are corrected immediately, and indeed the increase in the amount you have said. No increase in the amount on the basis of today's invitations. That's a mistake. Mr. Patulis, of course, maybe because he's a doctor, he put the doctors in. And that's not selfish. It's autonomy. The other guy, because he's not a doctor, didn't put them in. Is that how we're gonna move on? But respect for self-government, on the basis of the general national rules, which you have to put as a ministry and keep them and have a freedom with regional characteristics now, and another that we have a day by night from region to region, but both must be wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u112	Finish, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u113	I shall conclude, Mr President. I repeat two, three issues put by business people in the province and are codified. It is the question of accessing different categories to those calls that are not given to the criteria they enter. The problem concerns conditions, criteria and moleculosis, and that is why they are calling for a change in the moleculus system. Enlargement of the space shown by the reduction of the turnover and not for only two months. Two months was the pandemic? The pandemic continues to this day. It should be a long time to be more objective, not to be short-term. If, for example, you put two days, it's completely up-to-date, many will get in where they shouldn't and many will be excluded that they shouldn't again. Therefore, the longer the space is the better and more objective the criterion. You also need to see how there will be quotation so that we do not have the phenomenon of very small businesses having thirteen thousand of the seven hundred, eight hundred thousand, as Andreas Loverdes said about another loan programme, not having zero in cases. I'm telling you with mathematical certainty, because we measured it, for Crete with the 50 million will be subsidised by a thousand two-two-two-two-three-euro companies. He won't get any other business less and he won't get any other business than a thousand two hundred. So if you are thinking - and rightly so - of raising this amount, I would say that it takes triple, quadruple, fivefold, if we were to say the need. According to needs, it has to be tenfold, but the possibilities are the other counterweight. If you do double or triple, then, too, tie this invitation, but in the second phase at any rate change the criteria, the terms and the conditions for them to get those in need, but with this system of rating will not be the perfect ones. Mr President, I am tabling the documents of the ERIC, the Chamber of Commerce, the people of insurance companies who are completely excluded and all the other categories from taxi to free professionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u114	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. I will answer one of these points. I always answer specifically. My prototype was necessarily a little more general, because they were general questions, but here I am to answer everything. I'm starting with Mr. Loverdo. First of all, I have no irritation. Only at one point amazed at the inefficiency of the management of the NRP. I believe that Greece's performance in the fourteen months in this category is such that no such phrase is allowed. You didn't do it, Mr. Katrinis did it in his question, and he implied that if the Prime Minister judged me strictly in the changes, you somehow said it the parapolitical one, but I am going through it as a very second one. I'm going to the big part, because we need to have a serious conversation. You understand, Mr. Loverdo, that with such parapolitical implying that you have a serious conversation is difficult. I respect you, you too. We understand, we don't have to. We've known each other for many years now. And to make it clear, I've said before that I respect KINAL and the cost of the politician you've paid for these last ten years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u116	Not KINAL, Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u117	I know you, PASOK, I met you, PASOK for me you are. Now, whatever names you want to change, I don't care. PASOK paid a lot of costs. I am not now telling the whole story of what each of us has done, each of us has done well and badly. In this decade, we were left in the euro and thanks to the great back that PASOK put in. So you should always be aware of this cost, and what I'm saying is that we need to talk to that feeling. So I spoke to you for the good news and not the negative that you blame me. So now I'm going to the specifics. Stakoura statements. Indeed, Mrs Ahtsoglu tried to "play" a little with it. Because Mr. Stagiras said one day that "Greek can withstand the consequences of a lockdown" and I said the day before that "Greece cannot withstand the consequences of a lockdown". We're talking about the economy. Mr Stavros was of course talking about public finances. You all realise today that if the Greek Minister for Finance said that "Greece cannot withstand the financial consequences of a lockdown", what would it mean for markets and interest rates. I'm talking about the private economy. Another thing is what Mr Stavros answers, another thing that Mr Georgiadis answers. Both are right. Indeed, public finances are gratified by the great help Europe offers in its various forms, either the European Central Bank or the COVID programmes. The private economy, however, is at a very large decline and you are right in that. It's both true. Now let's go talk about the depletion of unemployment. Listen. The International Monetary Fund also mentions it in its report. Thanks to the measures we have taken, the great fears of an explosion of unemployment in Greece have so far not been confirmed. I would remind you that we have connected TEPIX with the workers, the first to return to workers and everything else. That is why the maximum amount, with the figures we had in the summer, was 18.1%, which was about the unemployment of February 2019. Now it's going down. Of course, once the tourist season is over, it will come up. However, there was no explosion. The main reason for the explosion is not all the measures I have mentioned. If we had not taken all these measures, unemployment would obviously be 30%, 35%, 40%. Who knows where it would have stopped if all these operations were closed. The fact that there were no explosions in unemployment ultimately proves that the companies did not close down. The measures were therefore sufficient and effective. Now we're going to the Observatory. Observatory's done. I said it would be an ad hoc observatory. The Observatory operates every Tuesday at 9 o'clock at the Ministry of Finance. The Minister of Finance participates, I, the CEOs of all Greek banks, the President and CEO of the Development Bank, the Deputy Minister Mr. Tsakiris, the Deputy Minister Mr. Papathanassis, the Deputy Minister Mr. Skylakakis. We are watching every Tuesday, in other words every week, the performance of each bank on every tool we've given and we're dealing with every bank that's left behind as to why it stayed behind. The results will be taken into account in the distribution of the new instrument of the next 3.5 billion. As far as we're concerned, it's all happened. Why don't we announce the evidence in public? Oh, no. We never said we'd make a public announcement. We did not say that we would do an observatory to make, say, a messy bank and say that "this bank is good, this bank is bad" and, therefore, to affect the consumer and go to one bank or another. We did the Observatory to pressure the banks to give the tools. Did it work? Absolutely! TEPIX II was exhausted at 100%. How much longer will the Observatory work? That is why, from this week on, there is also an additional billion to respond to Mr Katrin. The guarantee was exhausted to 95%. They went out in about three and a half months. To understand the sizes, TEPIX II, which is a program that SYRIZA had also, in the past, given over nine and a half times the time of 300 million and we in the ninth of the year 2 billion. How much better will the Observatory go? The Observatory was fine! Ours. I don't know what the Bank of Greece is doing. The Bank of Greece is an independent body. Ask the Bank of Greece. I don't know, I don't participate. Ours, however, and it's done and it's working and it's a success. Understanding what's going on with the loans. I would like to explain this because I do not want to see anything that we actually agree on. What did I say in my prototype? Loans granted by a bank to a company that the bank says "will not return it" is a crime, it is not aid, it is a national disaster in the future. I'll never leave this beginning. Another thing is - and I reply to Mr Katrin - that we have decided to give up half the advance and actually count this sum in our debt if we say that we are counting. So far, the markets we are saying are not concerned, Mr Katrin. So we've done our calculations. That's why the interest rate is dropping while we say it. And another thing is to tell the markets that "I risk the stability of the banks". You are big children, good MPs, some of you were good ministers - the two I see - so you can't understand the difference. But to say to the public that I am adding 1, 2, 3 billion to my debt, which from the reduction of the interest rate I have taken, I have already reduced it, because I have saved these billions from the reduction of interest rates, and so I can 'load' them without risking any more is to seriously force the banks to give loans, in other words, our deposits to businesses that will'support', to say so in the common sense. It's two different things. I repeat - I am constantly pressed by Mr Katrinis in the second - I find it totally unacceptable. I can't believe he's expressing the Change Movement. I can't believe you'd play the country in dice after everything you've done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u118	You said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u119	Then we agree that there will be bank criteria.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Catarini, he didn't interrupt you. He listened patiently.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u121	No inaccuracies, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u122	If we agree there will be bank criteria, let's figure out what we agreed on now. I've asked the banks. Let's go to the numbers. How many companies in Greece of these eight hundred nine hundred thousand you say - will I then come to them - can they be borrowed by the banks? How many? Do you know how many are really? It's twenty thousand. Because of the guarantees we put, they go to forty thousand and they'll be borrowed. In fact, with the two tools, in their exhaustion, 100% of the companies that can be borrowed will be borrowed. There are no others, Mr Colleagues, that can be borrowed. There's no more. And various cases that came to my office, and the citizens protested, and we looked at them, to see whether or not the banks don't give them money, we then ended up that they didn't. And a Chamber - I will not say what - he announced in the post-base and branch media that he is building a committee in the Chamber to check five hundred files that the banks did not grant to go out to report the banks, after two weeks the president called me and said 'I'm stopping it'. Why are you stopping it? All five hundred files didn't get the loan. So let's get this straight. Since we have agreed banking criteria, because we agree that the stability of the banking system is our national duty, this debate is good to stop. Now that they can't get into the banking criteria, it's the ones who take all the other tools we've been talking about. We're not leaving them out. They take everything else, but verbalized and with such a risk that Greece can bear and not destroy the future of our children. That is our government's policy, and I think it is absolutely responsible and reasonable. Now let's go to why individual businesses and the self-employed are excluded, as you have said. As you know, Mr. Colleague, we have put in the 'Refund advance 2' the self-employed and the individual companies that had cash machine. Now the self-employed and without a cash machine, if they belong to the affected CAR. So we've still taken a step forward. Here is the great debate on the Greek economy, which the government will do and see within the Pissaridis project, and we will include it as a project in the Recovery Fund and the COVID Fund. We say eight hundred and ninety thousand businesses, of which you rightly said 97% are very small businesses. Is that good for the Greek economy? Does it make the Greek economy competitive that 97% are micro-enterprises? No, it's the answer. One of the biggest reforms we can do is to give serious incentives so that we can bring together these businesses so that we do not have 97% of micro-enterprises. 97% of micro-enterprises means businesses - not all of them, but, in any case, most of all - that tax evasion, which have no competitiveness to cope with in this modern difficult world that we all live in. We must help them to evolve into larger enterprises. Larger enterprises will be able to borrow and borrow from the banks. Because, as a general rule, companies that are not borrowed by the banks are micro-enterprises, this 97% you said. I forgot to say in my protology that for all of these we have naturally established and voted together on micro-credits. They will start very soon to operate microcredit companies, which will, in principle, go business excluded from the banking system. I have to answer two more issues to close. The first is something Mr. Katrinis asked me, who left now. Obviously, he had some parliamentary work, I don't blame him for that, we have plenty of time here. He asked me whether I should...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u123	He's in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u124	Yeah, I said parliamentary work. I said he obviously has parliamentary work. I didn't blame him. On the contrary. I said that it has parliamentary work and we have been here for too long. I've got work to do, too, but it's a parliament. Watch out. What did he ask me? He asked me: 'Is it possible that you do not give us the information about the companies that have taken the loans and how much loans they have received, and that is why you think it is personal data, while imposing on the person who took the 800 euros to put a sticker on it that he took the 800 euros?' I beg your pardon, Mr Loverdo, for I would like you to take this to Mr Katrin who, unfortunately, has another parliamentary work, because he may not know about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u125	What?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u126	Repeat, he asked me: Is it possible for you to invoke personal data to give us the information of the companies that took up how many loans and what kind of loans, but do you have the person who took the eightcosari to have a sticker that took the eightcosari? So let's go. The EUR 800 was ESRB money, the EIF's working capital, which was given.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u127	How much is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u128	We have given 600 million from the ESRB for this reason. As you know, the NRP has a mandatory publicity rule. I mean, when the NSA is spending money, it must look like he's spending it. That is why in the projects that are NSRF, we also put the labels on the idea that this was done by cofinancing the NSRF, etc. It's compulsory. If you don't have a post, that means sticker, I have to ask you back. And that money is a gift, it's not a loan. The other money, the loans, that is, it's not a gift, it's a loan. You'll return it. Is it possible, Mr Loverdo and Mr Kegeroglou - why is your colleague not here - to compare the subsidy to the industry, that is, what I am giving you, with the loan you will return to me and, in fact, also to have this debate seriously in the Greek Parliament? Is it possible that the Change Movement in the House seriously tell me that I need to make a fetch, in public with the VDUs, every operation that she has taken and how much loan for her every competitor to know? Excuse me, but these aren't serious things.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u129	We on behalf of the Change Movement...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u130	I am pleased, Mr Kegeroglu, that you agree. These aren't serious things. So let's do it now, actually. Of course, the people's VAT will not be given, nor will anyone who tried to get a loan risk seeing the name of the front page in a newspaper tomorrow. That's not the business of the state. The state's job is to help the operation stand on its feet. We cannot have such debates in this House. But now we're going to the big one. We with the Observatory, with the information we give you, give you sufficient information as to which category of economy the loans go, so that you can properly make your constructive criticism, which is what you should be interested in, and not whether Lovertis took it or did not take it. This is not a debate that can be held in Parliament under no circumstances at all. It can't be done at all! It would be a disaster, and I wonder how my colleague said it. Now, I'm coming to Mr. Kegeroglu. I told you from the beginning - and I wonder why you made me this prologue, my dear colleague - that your question was excellent and very useful. You blamed me for having to do it, and so on, while I told you in my prototype, your question was very useful. My outburst - if we call it explosion - was due only to Mr Katrin's very unfair phrase, that we are ineffective in absorbing the NRP. And what has been said, that we know why we are ineffective because of the change in the rules due to COVID, and that is not true. And why isn't that true? When we go to third place, we compete with other countries, which also, Mr Kegeroglu, have the exceptions due to COVID. The fact that we are going up ten seats is not because of COVID. And the others have COVID. Others have the same exceptions as we do. It's because of our hard and quick work. That's the answer. And that is a national success, which cannot be a reason for reciprocity. I'm closing up with this. Of course all the three questions that have been asked - each for its own reasons - and also the debate we have had, were useful in the public debate. And I don't want to exclude you from the right to do that thing. For God's sake! On the contrary. Every day we asked questions about such matters, it would be useful to inform the Greek citizens. And, of course, as I said to Mr Kegeroglu, I already have information about the programmes in the regions, because much of what he said is interesting and we need to see whether we can do it - I am the last politician to say, I do not hear what others say nor have I ever said that we know everything. On the contrary. I would, however, like to consider it a polite request for you, the criticism being fair in the present circumstances and not too much and unfair, because then we are giving the wrong signal to the Greek society. That's all, if you want, a complaint my prototype had. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u131	Next time, we'll applaud and sew you with flowers!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u132	And we accept that!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u133	Please, let's go down. We continue with the sixth question under number 33/8-10-2020 in the first cycle of the Parliamentary I East Attica of Mera25 Mr. Maria Apatzidis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Confirmation of a solution to chronic problems when formulating the draft law on the Modernisation of Spatial and Urban Law". Mrs. Apajidis, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the forthcoming draft law, despite the fact that it proposes significant interventions in town and country planning, leaves a banning number of loose ends to be covered by a legislative initiative to modernise spatial and urban legislation. Many municipalities are faced with problems of spatial planning and town planning, such as settlements lacking orbital plans, but also settlements without town planning. In the eastern Attica example is the Municipality of Dionysus. In particular, in Agios Stefanos, with about twenty thousand permanent inhabitants and in the spring with fifteen thousand inhabitants, there is the following chronic and major problem: At the same time that the state gives high priority to safeguarding and preserving forest land, the relevant ministry has maintained as forest areas areas, which have in fact not been forest for decades. The citizens of Agios Stefanos and Spring have already paid and paid for their real estate as in-projects, are taxed and many are licensed to build, but these properties have not been guaranteed as legal. They are asking for a building and for a sustainable rhetoric plan. The integration of the region into a legal status is a prerequisite for the start of other side-effects that afflict the municipalities in the region. Problems posed by natural disasters such as fires and flooding, climate-enhanced risks. A more general objective should be to bring the arrangements through the interventions, positions and proposals of the relevant collective and scientific bodies and the scientific studies of local urban projects, taking into account the particular local features of the municipalities, the directly concerned and society in general, and not through a high institutionalisation and enforcement of provisions on such a crucial issue, such as the creation of a new development framework that the country so much needs in conditions of health and economic crisis. In view of the above, I would like to ask you, Minister: Will the issue of the citizens of the Municipality of Dionyssos, as well as other municipalities with comparable problems in the forthcoming bill on the modernisation of town planning and town planning legislation, be explicitly resolved? Will it ensure effective participation and the maximum possible consultation with the relevant collective and scientific bodies, in order to contribute to the effective preparation and preparation of the draft law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u135	Thank you very much, Mrs. Apajidis. It seems that only youths apply the regulations here and respect them. Good for you! The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy, Mr Dimitrios Economou, who will teach how the ministers respond. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall begin with the last point you mentioned, the consultation. In the draft law which has been under discussion for some time, there has been consultation and even extensive consultation. Initially it took place during August. An extension was granted. discussions had taken place before, for months and since the formal public consultation ended and we are still having discussions with all the stakeholders, we have not refused to discuss with anyone if any municipality wants to discuss it. And with the Municipality of Dionysus - if I remember correctly - we have discussed. So obviously we don't exclude anyone. On the contrary, participation in consultation is welcome and for me it is extremely welcome. The issue you raise has two different aspects. One is the boundaries of the settlements and the other is the forest issue. It's two different issues. I will begin with the issue of delimiting the settlements. This is a timeless wound of Greek urban policy. It was planned to demarcate the settlements for the first time by the Decree-Law of 1923, about a hundred years ago. Since then, for decades nothing has happened. At times various demarcations were attempted, but often in a way that was not constitutionally acceptable, so that the Council of State canceled in several cases the boundaries of such settlements, such as Rethymnon or Pelion, as well as other areas. And there are appeals, which I fear will also be accepted. That is a huge problem objectively. We are trying to resolve this in a very specific way through the draft law that has been tabled. We are also making some improvements to the final version of the law, but basically the approach is the same as that of the draft law as it was posted. What do we predict? For the first time, we transfer the limit, the reference year for the delimitation of the settlements from 1923 to 1981. What does that mean? To demarcate today, after a hundred years the settlements as they were in 1923 are really crazy. They've been intervening so many situations. Evidently, even in legal ways with arbitrary settlements, but also with legitimate building permits, residential structures have in practice been created which are much larger than those which existed in 1923. We believe that, in my view, and in general the government is insane to look back at 1923 every time, and what was then to demarcate it today and transfer the reference year to 1981. Why don't we transfer it yet? Because that is where a few balances should be kept with case law. We do not want to jeopardise this regulation which we are making in the case-law because it will be at the expense of not our own, but of the people who suffer the consequences, namely the residents of the settlements. So the legislation already exists. At the same time, we are preparing two programmes in particular which will both start in 2020 immediately after the law has been passed through which the demarcations will be carried out in the new process. One project is the programme of local town planning projects which can demarcate a local plan and settlements. At the same time, for areas where the issue is extremely urgent, as you rightly refer to Dionysus, Spring, St Stephanos and other regions of the country, self-sufficient studies will also be commissioned exclusively to demarcate settlements. These assignments will be able to reach fourteen months in a presidential decree. So that is what we are doing for the urban part of the issue. There's a part of it, though, forest. I do not know whether I should, Mr President, complete this. I'd like another minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u137	As you wish. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u138	Good, thank you very much. The forest part is another story. As you know, the Constitution prohibits the creation of residential units and the building, in any case, of forest land. That is, in my opinion, too rigid. In most European countries it is not forbidden. This does not mean that they do not protect their forests, but are not protected in such an automatic and generalised way. In any case, this is a constitutional reality and we cannot overcome it. Therefore, given that we need to move within the limits of constitutional legitimacy, the law of the Ministry of the Environment, which was passed in spring, has given some way out for the cases of the settlements that exist within forest areas and forests. It is not perfect, it will not solve everyone's problems because, in order to do this, the Constitution should be changed. However, there will be some or all improvements - in the sense that some areas will be able to acquire a residential status - or on an individual basis for building permits issued legally and which are too many and at least those people will be able to maintain their buildings. I'm going to continue in my dentistry because I don't want to abuse time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, too. Mrs. Apajidis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I listened very carefully. Let me expand because of the seriousness of the problem. The Eastern Attica could in itself be a particular case of study. The problems associated with forest land are perpetuating, dramatically degrading the quality of life of the inhabitants. In particular, in the settlements of Agios Stefanos and the Spring of the Municipality of Dionysos the problem arose after 2010 on the basis of the provisions of Law 3889/2010 on Forest Training. The provisions in question called into question in practice the legal decisions by which the limits of the above areas had been fixed as existing in 1923, as you quite rightly said, and after the decisions of the Council of State had been taken in advance. These settlements have been known for at least 1883 years. In other words, for a long time, over a hundred years, as you said before, they have been gradually transformed into urban areas of thousands of inhabitants. Based on the 2011 census, Agios Stefanos and Spring had ten thousand and sixty thousand inhabitants respectively. The current situation is, of course, different. This development has not taken place illegally and arbitraryly, but on the basis of a number of administrative acts which have in turn created the social conviction of absolute legality. In particular, throughout this period, all administrative services have adopted a large number of acts, such as decisions of the competent institutions of the administration setting limits to the statutory decree of 1923, legal decisions to establish limits, innumerable building permits that have never been withdrawn, decisions to permit fragmentation permits, cutting trees with the right to build the competent forest services, decisions to establish objective high-level urban values by the Ministry of Finance, approvals of a general planning plan including the established boundaries of the settlements in the cases of Saint Stefanos and Spring, measures to build up the municipality for the cases of Saint Stefan and Spring, but which have collapsed because of the problem. It should also be noted that all the infrastructure-related agencies, the region, the municipality, OTE, PPC, proceeded with infrastructure construction. Some of them are even financed by Community funds. In addition, all entities carrying out transfer operations, such as notaries, mortgages and banks, normally proceeded to transfer, transfer and mortgage real estate. Finally, legal decisions were adopted in respect of civil actions on the temporary housing maps in 1983 of the Ministry of Agriculture, which recognised on the one hand the existing private status and, on the other, the existence of a settlement. They were decisions which, while not offended by the Greek State, were not taken into account by correcting these maps in order to allow reliable forest maps to be drawn up afterwards. The problem, however, remains on the basis of irrationality, suffering thousands of citizens. Minister, residents are faced with a situation in which their assets are devalued, which have suddenly been in a non-project situation, at the same time being treated taxly as high-value zones. These regions are unable to follow and exploit the emerging new development conditions, for example the need for sustainable and smart development of regions through technological solutions, smart cities and other appropriate programmes. The lack of an integrated urban planning organisation leads to an inability to protect the natural environment and the urban fabric from unplanned housing development. The production of a number of administrative acts has for a long time created a situation of overthrowing which will also have serious consequences for the public interest. Finally, account should be taken of the submission of dozens of appeals to justice for high amounts of citizens who were initially regarded as law-abiding, but after several years they were designated by law as infringements. In order to resolve this chronic and major problem for these settlements, it is necessary to provide for recognition of their limits, as determined by the acts of the prefectures and subsequently included in the approved general urban plans, and for the non-implementation of areas within the above limits of forestry legislation, excluding them from the suspension of forest maps, because it is simply that these areas are not forestry today nor were until the present time. We remember that all this is happening when real forest land faces a clear protection deficit. Finally, provision should be made for the urban organisation of the settlements with the appropriate environmental balance, in accordance with specifications to be laid down by your Ministry, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, too. Mr. Economou, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u142	Look, most of what you said, in my opinion, is correct, accurate and correct and I agree. I am not referring to the proposals, I will comment on them, but on the assessment of the reality you are right. It is a situation which is unacceptable and which has been suffered by citizens who have tried to build legally in a country which, too, is illegally built, we are giving them the opportunity to perpetuate their situation. But what's the matter? I'm going to your suggestions. Redemarcating the settlements, using the limits determined by the prefectures, is unconstitutional and directly contradicts existing case law. If we do this, they'll fall back next day. People will find themselves in the same condition. They won't have any real benefit. And for what? Because under the Constitution and today's legislation, the boundaries of the settlements must be those of 1923. In 1923 the real settlement was certainly much smaller than the present one, there is no doubt. If we went to that basis, the provision in question would fall into the first action. What we do is transfer 1923 to 1981. So much of the development that has been in these 50 years - and most of the housing development is before 1981 in these regions - will be able for the first time to obtain legal limits with legal certainty. In other words, they will not be in danger of losing a legality which is always coming and leaving. From that point on, as far as the areas - the alleged forest areas - are concerned there is, as I have said, the Constitution. On the basis of the Constitution, it must be demonstrated whenever you incorporate an area in a design of such a town type, either in a town plan or within settlement limits, that this area or part of the area is not a forest. It is not a forest, however, if it is proved by the specific procedures provided for by the legislation and the Constitution. With these procedures today, this is under investigation, to put it this way. I am not saying that it has been proven to be woody, but it has not been proven otherwise. The process of completing the forest maps is under way and will be over quickly. And we in this process all of what you mentioned, all the administrative acts that give such a right - but do not give all the administrative acts that you mentioned right to be considered as an area not forest, some yes, some not - will be evaluated. And, wherever possible, in areas that have really ceased to be in fact forests, they are built and legally - I agree again - there again - justice will be attributed to their owners and to the long-term inhabitants. We cannot, however, guarantee that all areas which may be forests will in the end prove to be not, as is the case today. I wish this would happen. As I said before, there are specific procedures by the 2020 spring environmental law, through which the potential for characterisation of areas as non-tariffs is expanded to the threshold of constitutional law. I'd like to tell you something else, but because of time I can't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u143	Be well, Minister. I have the honour to inform the House that the Minister for Justice has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Article 3126/2003 ‘Prime responsibility of the Ministers’, as applicable, on 14 October 2020: Criminal proceedings concerning the Minister for Protection of Citizens Michalis Chrysochoidis and Criminal case law concerning the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Niki Kerameos. Now, the fifth under number 50/12-10-2020 is to be discussed and the second time question by MP B2' Western Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Avil without an environmental assessment to the Egyptian Troika due to “salamation”. Mr Arsenis could not be absent from timely questions. Mr Arsenis has two minutes at his disposal to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is a follow-up to the topical question concerning the FEK 3291 that the Minister, Mr. Hatzidakis, signed a summer holiday and just laid the foundation for the "salaming" of the RES and an illegal procedure that you legalised in the middle of a holiday. S.H.I.E.L.E.L.L.L.L.D. - Korfoula, who had obtained a production license of 23 MW, after this decision you have broken into two pieces: In one of 5 MW to not need this licence and - listen, this is the most impressive – at a 9,99 MW photovoltaic power station, to be under 10 and not to have to pass the licence. Now we have at the same time in the wider area of Aspropotamos neither more or less fifteen stations in the areas of Kaltsa, Neraida, Hunter, Cedros, Plagia, Kososhi, Chioli, Koutsulas, Red, Point, Acid Despais, Mesovuni, Tsouma Lupa, Tricorfo, Great Capsala. All this is in a national park. Besides being in huge altitudes, it is more than two or two thousand meters, it is in a national park, protected areas of NATURA and KAZ. The impressive is that of all these producers attestations, the eight of them belong to a company called ‘HIGH VOLTAGE’, while three others belong to a company called ‘WIND ENERGY FACILITY’. Both companies, all of them, have the same address - Naxos 12 in Halandri - based on the elements of the Ornithological Society and the "KALISTO" and the complaint they made. This is an ocular "salamation" with requests from a wind turbines, when the next application is one kilometre. These are shocking, Minister. You legalise what was illegal and European illegal, because, as we write you in the question, Directive 92/2011 obliges the assessment of the cumulative effects. So tell us at what stage you will control the cumulative effects of these ones - a wind turbines that you approved after your ministerial decision. The same companies break the project to overcome environmental licensing. As for what you do for those who live with environmental permits, I shall refer to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u145	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. Mr. Economou, you have three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Your question raises a number of questions and some points need to be clarified. First of all, it is like implying that the earlier environmental commitments are not an environmental licensing process in line with European legislation. That's not true. Of course, the other GFCF and the RDP are quite legitimate. Both are lawful with European legislation, both are allowed and applied in the other European countries. Furthermore, the limits we have set are not different from those which exist in most European countries. It's similar, the same size class. So far we have not had it, and that is why hundreds of demands for GDP were accumulated in the competent services, while in the other European countries where the RES are developing - and the importance of the development of RES is well known - there was no such accumulation and delay, therefore. So we are doing something that is good European practice. The earlier environmental commitments themselves include a number of insurance margins. When you make this application for MSU, it must include a technical report, it must include a document of compatibility of the project with the specifications for placement, as agreed by archaeological services and other services. Where the proposal is within a forestry area, a certificate from the Forest Service and approval from the Forest Service is required - a characterisation act. Where the case is within the NATURA areas, a specific ecological assessment is required anyway and a decision by the regional authority concerned is required. Therefore, there are also a number of insurance portfolios in the SSP which ensure that this project at any time does not exceed the acceptable levels of environmental burden. And always remember that an EIA project offers very important things to environmental protection and especially to climate change issues. One cannot disconnect these two aspects when climate change is evolving at the rate that we all know is evolving, which is deteriorating. The RES projects certainly need to be advanced. We are trying to move the RES projects through environmental licensing procedures, which are both legal and equivalent to the practices of other European countries. From that point on, you referred to the cumulative effects. Environmental licensing is not the only procedure whereby the locations of the RES projects and, in particular, of wind projects are regulated. At the same time, along with the environmental process, there is also the spatial regulation, which is mainly provided for by the specific planning of the RES. Specific limits are set by the specific spatial planning of the RES, with capacity, i.e. sizes in terms of MW and number of wind turbines within each municipal community. Therefore, in this way, the capacity cannot be exceeded. A specific procedure is foreseen through the specific spatial planning of RES. Two hundred applications may occur, but it does not mean that all, two, a hundred, or whatever one wants, will be accepted. Once the carrying capacity of each municipality is covered, the rest shall be rejected in turn. Let's go now and a little more specific. The licenses to which you refer, in fact the attestations that have replaced the old production licence, can be submitted for whatever region he likes. This does not prejudge whether or not it will be accepted. In fact, it seems to me that too many of these production attestations are in areas of exclusion, which are clearly the regions of exclusion of the winds, and which will be automatically rejected. Why do they do it? I can't understand it. There's no way these production attestations will pass. But this is at the expense of investors. The environment will suffer nothing, because they will never be accepted, first of all, because they fall within the bans laid down by the special landfill of the RES. Those who do not fall into such bans have the cutter of the carrying capacity. So there are too many insurance bottlenecks which also result in cumulative results being checked and not to escape, and obviously we should not consider that these RAE maps showing the production certificates, which have been submitted, have something to do with the final result. For every 10 such applications, it is a question of whether one will ultimately end up with an authorisation. So another thing about production attestations, which are the responsibility and initiative of the candidate investor, and another thing about them will ultimately be accepted. I'm going to go on in my dentistry. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, for the "salamation" you did not say a word about the fact that a park, an application 25 MW, was adapted to 5 MW, so they pass through this responsible statement the standard environmental commitments, and in another solar photovoltaic with 9,99-to be under 10-you didn't say a word. The first environmental commitments are a responsible statement. They don't pass the audit of the Environmental Licences Department. Mr. Hatzidakis discredits the address by saying that it takes six years to approve an environmental impact study. Let us see what it takes six years, because studies that are complete, complete and documented are adopted in two to three months. One factor is public consultation. Six years they take all those who have incomplete files and are written in the leg. We have, again on the basis of complaints from movements and environmental organisations, four environmental impact studies for wind stations in different regions of Boeotia, identical registration for fauna, including birds, which even the wrong names are copied with in the environmental impact studies. At a wind farm in Dervenochoria, the study has the ancient names of the birds, not even the scientific ones. In another ratite study, instead of mentioning - and is a general rule - specific birds in the area are listed, general comments are given on how small the effects of the winds on the ornithonnaean species are, without looking into the ornithonide. That is the quality of the studies, and that is why the delays in the services too, despite the political pressures that exist to make these unsatisfactory proposals possible. In fact, Minister, it is unheard of in three days' time - ornithophagne observations. You talk about winds coming into 'NATURA' when our country does not have a management plan for 'NATURA'. What's the protected item? What are the areas of absolute protection? And also, in your speech, you are confusing the ability to bring about cumulative effects. It's two completely distinct concepts. Other, the ability to carry, the cumulative effects. The carrying ability is a general principle with which we generally appreciate how much space fits. With regard to cumulative effects, it may mean in a species, it may mean in roads and networks. It has nothing to do with the number of wind turbines, it has to do with the impact of the project and its accompanying works. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We are therefore waiting for a seriousness. We expect you to dismantle, withdraw this ministerial decision that allows'salamation', because you do the illegal lawfulness and do it in front of our eyes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u149	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. Here, Mr. Economou, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Look, for the fact that the ability and the cumulative effects are two unrelated things I did not argue with, because I thought it was obvious that it was not irrelevant at all. The cumulative effects are due to the accumulation of many wind turbines, as we speak of wind turbines. The more the cumulative effects are increasing. The carrying ability comes and puts a cap on the number of wind turbines. And I mean the carrying ability, as it is in the Special Spatial Plan of RES, which is a specific number that for each municipality determines quantitatively what the number of allowed MW is and by transforming that one type that exists and the number of standard-sized wind turbines. These are interconnected, they are interconnected aspects of the same phenomenon. When you place more wind turbines, the cumulative effects are increased. When you put a cap on the number of wind turbines and MWs, the cumulative effects are reduced. As for the other point that you said that the protectionist object is not known because the management plans have not been established, the management plans have indeed not been put out but in a few areas. Too bad! But this process goes on. However, before the management plans, the protected object is known. In practice, each NATURA region has been identified and within the NATURA region the priority habitats have been identified from the outset. That's data. Every priority habitat corresponds to specific protected species and some of them are also high priority for the European Union and these priority habitats are therefore prohibited from installing wind turbines. So what you said is not true. And there is a link between capacity and cumulative impacts and it is known in advance on this issue even without management plans - which, of course, are extremely important - the protected object. And through the environmental process it is protected, the impact of the project on the protected object is assessed and the protected object is protected. So things are simpler and I do not understand why there is a confusion between these concepts. However, I would like to say: As you know, the process of revision of the Special Spatial Planning of the RES has begun, which was set up in 2009 and has started to be carried out since 2006 or 2007, if I remember correctly. It's obvious it's outdated. There are aspects of the issue of the placement of winds - I live in winds, because that is what you are focusing on - which, at the time of this Special Spatial Taxation of RES was completely different. I shall refer specifically, for example, to why there are others. However, a very important example is the height of wind turbines. At that time the so-called 'typical wind turbine' was in the eighty-five meters. These were great wind turbines. These were the wind turbines that the market used to achieve satisfactory performances. Today there are wind turbines that are a hundred forty meters, a hundred fifty meters, and they grow. So there is a failure here in the EIA Spatial Plan, but this will necessarily be addressed through the new revision. There are areas such as the islands or the microtopes, where this failure of today's Spatial Taxation - if very large wind turbines are accepted - can produce extremely negative results. It is a reality, but it may be through the publication of the review of the new EIA spatial planning to stop through environmental licensing. So there are problems that we are solving, but the situation in general is under control very clearly and in an area that is linked to climate change and we cannot see all this process of wind and RES one side. We must always see the effects on biodiversity, but also the effects on climate change. We also need to find a gold incision between two objectives, which are extremely important, but in some cases lead to contradictions. You need to find a balance. You can't just choose one of the two, because both are very important. I'd like to say one last, if I may. Today, the demand for wind locations focuses almost 98% on land. Even before the new EIA spatial planning, with special legislation, precisely so that we do not delay, we will be able to create wind parks at sea. Some such issues are already provided for in the 2008 SEA Spatial Taxation Act, but mainly concern fixed-voltage wind turbines. The new trend internationally - and which is very similar to the Greek seas - is the windline. The wind floats can absorb a very large part of the demand for installation, create large amounts of electricity from wind power, and this will reduce the pressure on the ground space and allow the new space for the RES to be more stringent in specific cases, such as the islands or possibly the high mountains, the peaks. But unfortunately, the RES and the winds go there. So all this has to be a way to weigh them and take out the gold incision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u151	And I thank both of you. Have a good time. We were long delayed, but I respected the businessmen who wanted something to hear from Mr Georgiadis. Imagine that I've changed my flight myself. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Does this House accept the point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-16-S1-commons.u152	With the agreement of the House at 13.03 p.m., the sitting is closed for Monday, 19 October 2020 at 18: 00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny: a debate on topical and urgent questions. Thank you very much, everyone, inside and out. Have a good weekend! Holy Mary with you!
