ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: In accordance with Parliament's 17-11-2020 authorisation, the minutes of its PR Sessions of Tuesday 17 November 2020 were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau in respect of the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Additional measures for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2019/1150 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the promotion of fair treatment and transparency for online mediation business users (L 186), arrangements for the Interservice Market Control Unit, the Competition Committee, the Market Operation and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement to this House: The Ministers of Infrastructure and Transport, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religion, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Pierre and Energy, Justice, Home Affairs, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, and the Deputy Ministers of Civil Protection and Culture and Sport submitted on 17.11.2020 a draft law: ‘Recommendation, operation and responsibilities of the Civil Aviation Authority, regulation of issues of the Civil Aviation Service and other provisions of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament, Rallia Christidou, Member of the South Athens Division B3", the following:]] [[A. PRESENTATION OF REFERENCES]] [[To enter page 2a]] [[B. REQUIREMENTS OF SUPPORT IN BUILDERS’ REQUIREMENTS]] [[To enter page 2b]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on REQUESTS. Five questions will be debated today. There is also a question which will not be discussed after consultation of the honourable Member with the Minister. It is the first under number 169/16-11-2020 of the second-cycle question of the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, New Democracy, Spilios Levanou, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Re-establishment of the Department for the Management of the Cultural Environment and New Technologies in Agrini". There is also the letter from the Secretary of the Ministerial Council for today's meeting. So we begin with the first question that the present Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, will answer. It is the second question under number 167/16-11-2020 of a second question by MP B2' Western Athens section of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Exclusion of students from education, with income criteria". Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, MPs and MPs, today I could not be here, as by nine o'clock at night I was excluded from a personal guard of a platoon of a platoon that did not allow me to move in any direction, as was excluded, Mr President, and the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sakova, in Queen Sofia for six hours. These are things that have been recorded and presented on the news. In fact, this government is turning into a regime and will have the fate of all regimes. We shall, however, discuss this question, because even though democracy is our main issue at all times in this Parliament and with every government, there are other issues which I will not make the thanks of anyone staying without care, without a solution. We have a million four hundred thousand students. Madam Minister, you give ninety thousand laptops for televising. I wonder who these are going to go to. You give 7%, when more than 30% of our students and their families are at the limit of poverty and social exclusion. We have the announcement of the newspaper PASAL Peristeri, which reads: "A percentage above 30% of our students does not have access to computers, tablet, internet connection, even to modern mobile phones, does not have a fixed phone, some even live in houses with a cut-off current." And I would remind you that on June 5, for the four hundred registered students and fifty teachers you sent five tablets. In fact, we invite you to tell us, first of all, which criteria will share among the excluded students these few tablets you are sending, to tell us how they will have the right to access telecommunications, to education, to the rest of the students who are excluded and to tell us how it is currently possible for students who are excluded for social and economic reasons, to put absenteeism and threaten them to lose their class. And we would like to know how many students today, with your system, are close to the absenteeism limit to be cut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u3	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. I'll start with a report on your own introduction. Mr Arseni, the day before yesterday we had seventy dead in one day, we have over four hundred seams, we celebrated on 25 March in a symbolic manner, on 28 October in a symbolic manner, Easter different from every other year, and is it possible to discuss, with this unprecedented health crisis in our country, whether we should turn the day before yesterday into a health bomb for the country? We have waited, even at the last minute, for a position of responsibility from the opposition parties, a attitude of responsibility when our country is going through such an unprecedented crisis and when all the health and nursing staff of the country give a titanium struggle. I now come to your question, although, as I can see, it is different from the one you have tabled in writing. Let me start with the issues of access to schools. First of all, regarding schools themselves - because there are teachers who go there to do distance education - and their access to fast networks, in collaboration with the Ministry of Digital Governance in the past year, we have moved on to upgrade seven thousand schools from ADSL to VDSL, while about a thousand five hundred schools have fibre and next four thousand other schools in the country will also join this system. As far as school equipment is concerned: for primary and secondary school units we have already launched a total of ninety-one thousand sixty-three portable appliances worth over 24,000,000 euros. I would remind you that in July 2019, when the New Democracy took over the leadership of the country, portable devices in our schools were just four and a half thousand and have since been launched to exceed ninety thousand. We are talking about an increase of 2.000% compared with the country's portable devices. Most of it is through ESDP funds - over 65,000 - and a very large part too, through donations. And thank them very much for that. You specifically asked me about western Athens. Three thousand four hundred two portable devices have been given and launched through the NSRF, a thousand sixty - six hundred donations for primary school and two thousand three hundred six devices for secondary school. Let me clarify this: this equipment belongs to schools, it belongs to school units, and from that point on the point of view the managers may have it to students or teachers for the implementation of distance learning. What is the priority given? Criteria which include among other low incomes, parental unemployment, membership of multi-parent, single-parent, tritecnic, orphan family. So the students you say are at risk of poverty are the first to be supported. The same is true of the distribution. The breakdown was made on the basis of low GDP per capita, inaccessible regions, special education and training schools, vocational education and so on. I will respond to my dentext on the additional measures that we have taken for access to education as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u5	Before giving the floor to Mr Arsenis, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question report to the House on Friday 20 November 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 153/13-11-2020 topical question by MP Florina of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theophistis (Petis) Perkas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "State of the art: While all Europe is investing in television, we throw millions of capital invested in the work of district heating in order to turn to the past." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulou, Member of Parliament, on the subject of 'No concern for people and the area of culture' by No 149/9-11-2020. 3. The question by No. 165/16-11-2020, by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The protection of the historical location of the Cantanos Regional Unit (P.E.) Chania and the dangers from the expansion of the quarry zone in the region". 4. The 156/13-11-2020 topical question by Congressman I Athens of Mera25 Mr Angeliki Adamopoulos to the Minister for Civil Protection, entitled ‘Health’. B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 154/13-11-2020 topical question by MP Chios of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The need for direct support for earthquakes in Samos". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 159/16-11-2020 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The unilateral and incomplete government decision for the seventy-five days is irreparablely affecting thousands of businesses." 3. Question No 161/16-11-2020 by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'The deafening of the Government's development in Volos' The topical questions which will be answered by the same Minister or State Secretary will be discussed after each other. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Secretary, can you talk about the dead? Is it possible for you to talk about dead people when you left the world and let people smuggle in the transports, when you completely abandoned the health system, when you told us that in schools it didn't stick and refused every reasonable proposal to make schools with classes of fifteen and not really, Minister? Is it possible for you to cause the dead to speak of the dead? In any case, because the issue I raised was democracy, two Members, two Members!, Parliament's Vice-President Mrs Sakova and I were excluded from Queen Wisdom for six hours by nine o'clock, and we had no right to move. Whenever we moved, there was a platoon that individually followed us. This has nothing to do with any propaganda, this has to do with the suspension of the Constitution, and these regimes do things. But that's what you're turning into. In fact, you've already been converted even if you haven't figured it out, some of you. You're talking about investing in schools. All right, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, It had to be done. It would be very useful if the schools were open. I would like to ask you: What access do teachers have in laptop? I would like to ask you: What network upgrade did you make at the students' house? It's a rhetorical question. I would like to stress, Minister, what you know very well - that at least in the population that needs it, you give the laptops to a percentage. I have seen your communication on the criteria you set out. And I'm wondering, is the Circular coming out? I haven't found the circular. If he's Circular, I couldn't find her, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u7	About what, cylindrical?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u8	Circular on the criteria to be shared and how schools within them will share them. It's very important that we have it, because we didn't find it online and in transparency. At the moment you have transferred the obligation to teachers to choose among the excluded students who will give the laptop. Again, if you listened to OLEME and the research body of OLEME, the study centre, the CMETE which explained exactly how the ranks of the fifteen, the fifteen students, who explained how the schools that have been closed over the last ten years can be used, could at this time have operating classes and nowadays amid the peak of pandemic. But you choose to exclude students, and you have not answered us about absences. How many students are at present in danger of being cut out precisely because you are absent from the socially excluded, the financially excluded? Tell us, because what you're doing is really another violation of the Constitution, which dictates free and horizontal access for all to education.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u9	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Arseni, with all due respect for breaking the Constitution, you don't judge it either. They're judging our country's courts. And the Supreme Administrative Court of the country, the Council of State, has decided at the request of your party, if I am not mistaken, on the measures taken by the Government to celebrate the Polytechnic School and your application has been rejected. So neither you nor I judge whether the Constitution is suspended, whether there is a violation of the Constitution. A reference to health issues, although they are obviously out of the question of my responsibilities. I'll give you one clue. When the Government of New Democracy took over the rule of the country there were less than five hundred ICUs in the country. They have more than doubled, a titanic effort has been made by the government and, above all, by health workers, in order to deal with an unprecedented pandemic. And within all the difficulties, because we are talking about a very big battle, yes, our country has done better than other countries. We are not at all reassured. We have a very difficult road ahead of us, very difficult. But here we have to be a fist. It is a national race that we have been conducting over the past few months. A report to the schools. Mr Arseni, I think it has been made clear to everyone and, above all, to the epidemics that there was no tendency to spread the virus in schools themselves. And it is not only in Greece, this has arisen from studies in most countries in the world. In fact, if you look at the latest data, until we closed the schools, that is, they were suspended below 1%, 0.7%, 0.6%, of the departments were closed for preventive reasons. Why was the decision to suspend the operation of schools taken? For one basic reason: because there is mobility around schools. When schools operate over two million three hundred thousand people move. Our aim is precisely to limit overall mobility. It has nothing to do with schools, it has to do with adult mobility. I now come to the issues you have raised. Mr President, if I may, I would ask for your tolerance. First of all, I mentioned in detail what has been done to upgrade circuits. I mentioned in detail what has been done for supply through ESDP funds and donations for portable devices. Secondly, we have given the whole education community of the country free of charge the use of a platform, so that televised can be made free of charge from all. Thirdly, in any case even if there is no computer, no tablet, no cell phone can be connected by phone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u11	At what cost?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u12	At what cost? Zero, Mr. Arseny. Because I am very pleased to announce that at the request of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Digital Governance we have also requested that VODAFON providers, COSMOTE, WIND, "FORTHNET" approve of zero-cost connection to the platform. In addition, this is ensured that when one is linked by a mobile phone even through the use of data on the platforms used by the Ministry of Education for Television, there is zero charge. So, Mr. Arseny, no charge everywhere. I don't know how many other countries have achieved this at a zero charge. In addition, we have taken important steps to train our teachers, who were invited to transfer all education from lifelong learning to online education. Educational seminars have already been carried out for several months, open online courses for the rapid training of educational, training programs in collaboration with the Greek Open University and the University of the Aegean, a guide to distance learning, an open course “We Learn digitally”, which is in collaboration with the European School Network, and an integrated programme for rapid training in distance learning through ESDP funds that exceeds 2 million euros. Mr Arseni, the project is huge. We're talking about a digital project that the country has never seen before. It's hard. Arrhythmias exist. Here we are to solve them. Here we are to improve the solutions every day. It's an unprecedented project. The reality, however, is now that we are talking now, Mr Arseni, just the latest data, we have over forty thousand secondary education departments connected with the platforms to do teletext training. The day before yesterday, educational TV began. We had a record of 51.6% viewing in our children's young ages, four to fourteen. This is all a major leap in the digitisation of education. The fact that today we are talking about, now that we are talking about, our teachers are making a great effort to ensure that our children have access to education is a huge project that is credited to the educational community. Let us not go into a micro-political way against this very great act of responsibility within the educational community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u13	We move on to the next two questions. It is the first with number 150/10-11-2020, a top-circuit question from the Member of Parliament, Etolokarnania, New Democracy, Spyridon - Panagiotis (Spilios) Lebanese to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of: ‘The blockade of farmers from Etolocarnania from the notified aid to the edible olives of Kalamata’, and the third with number 148/9-11-2020, a top-circuit question from the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarna of the Change Movement, Dimitrios Konstantopoulou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘The exclusion risk of the Kalamas olive producers from the financial aid due to the koronai’. Both questions relate to the same subject and will be discussed at the same time, without affecting the rights of the speakers in their speaking time, in application of the provision in paragraph 4 of Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Lebanon, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me to say that very heavy words have been heard of suspension of constitution, status, diversion and provocation for the dead by the government. I imagine that if all this happened, we would not be here today to answer questions about computers and olives, nor would we have the possibility of having this dialogue. Nor, of course, would anyone be here to discuss these issues if we really had a diversion of the culture. In this context and knowing the Minister's love for parliamentary control, parliamentary dialogue and his commitment, I take advantage of the opportunity. Let me say that it is a given fact that during this crisis the government has thrown a net of protection to all the social groups. You do the same, Mr. Vorides, to your Ministry for Greek farmers. However, a problem has arisen in our country, Aitolokarnania, where 45% of the Kalamas olives are produced in the country. And, unfortunately, for reasons that are not the responsibility of the farmers in Atolokarnania, from the past there is a bad habit of not declaring the Kalamata olives they produce as Kalamas olives, but they state them as simple table table-top edible olives. This is what the government services know. It happened - that is the explanation I have given - because in the past, OPEKEPE accepted as Kalamata olives only those that produced in Kalamata - in the past I say, not now - and when it changed that, the farmers of Aetolakarania were not properly informed, the olive growers in order to change the definition. However, it is clear from five specific circumstances that the services know that these are Kalamon olives which are produced and for which we are discussing and the corresponding subsidy has not been granted. The first is that invoices issued years ago and registering on "Kalamon Olives". The second is the certification bodies, and even the biological certification bodies, which record these olives, these acres produced by Kalamas olives in Itolokarnania as Kalamon olives. The third is that annually these growers receive themselves - which we do not recognize now - the right - to single area payment as the producers of Kalamata olive oil. The fourth is that in ELGA compensation, when there are disasters, they get exactly the price that producers of Kalamata olive oil receive. And the fifth is that growers who declare the Kalamon olive simply as table-top edible olive have code in ELGA for their contributions in 2008190 and pay exactly the same amount as the corresponding code they do declare that they produce Kalamon olives and pay exactly the same amount in ELGA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u15	You're closing, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u16	We are closing down, Mr President, by saying that precisely because all this is happening and I know your sensitivity and your good will, I hope you will find a solution, so that we can also give these growers the price you actually pay to support the others in Greece who produce Kalamon olives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u17	Corresponding time is given by Mr Constantopoulos, Member of the Aetolokarnania Movement of Change. Here, Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, Minister, the Kalamnon olive is one of the dominant varieties in the area of Messology and especially in Itolo-Carnania. It should be stressed here and made clear that 45% to 50% of the local olives of Kalamata are produced in Itoloakarna. In fact, Ioannina is involved in large quantities across the country and reaches about 40,000 tonnes when, for example, Laconia participates 28% to twenty-five thousand tonnes and Messinia is 3% and three thousand tonnes respectively. I would like to stress here that the family income of thousands of producers in the Iato-Karnania region is based on this crop. Minister, in recent years the price of olive groves has fallen. Already from EUR 2.5 per 100 pieces, we have reached EUR 0.51, a price which accounts for almost 40% to 50% of the cost of production, whether it is referred to as Kalamata olives or table olives, which are the same. So, what do producers themselves do? They are subsidising their production, when the Kalamata olive, as I said, has reached 50 cents today and are in the cells of last year's production. At the same time, Minister, the Greeks are causing greedy and unfair competition. And while the problems are too much along with the disasters of bad weather, the coronary pandemic has come to add and worsen the situation by spreading insecurity, I would say, and economic catastrophe to producers. Result? Large quantities of Kalamata olives are left unspoiled and the olive growers are in a bad state. You have announced a financial aid of EUR 70 per acre. I would say that it is a small but important aid for these producers both for their professional and personal survival. However, Minister, there is a confusion today as to who will receive this aid. Producers of Etolocarnania are at risk of being left out of the nymph of aid. This is because thousands of acres with Kalamon olives are reflected in the OSE declarations as table olives rather than in the code ‘Calamon olive variety’, according to which the Ministry has to pay the aid. In other words, half of the total production of Kalamata olives in the country is at risk of being excluded from aid. This would be unequal treatment to the detriment of the producers in Atalo-Karanania, and this, in fact, would be when there is evidence in the Ministry that they can confirm the correctness of my words. Minister, the problem is not solved by discrimination, whether it is called Kalamon olive or table olive. Why am I saying that? Because our oil producers are at despair and dead end. They're waiting for a solution from you. They need clear words and horizontal support. Here you must tell us how to support oil producers, how to give them aid per acre, because any mistake of the IACC cannot change reality. After all, you know very well as the Ministry - and you have the evidence - which is proof of this, that if the name paraphilis stops, the aid will be a fact. In any case, the possibility of amending statements should also be given, if that is the problem. I would ask you, then, how does the Ministry intend to respond to the problems of olive growers? How does it intend to financially support inclusive oil producers? How will you protect the producers from the Hellenisms? Looks like at least the checks aren't coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u19	After the great twin of Lebanon - Konstantopoulos, by Manis Vorides. Watch what you're going to say now, so we don't go for a civil war. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Firstly, we recognised that there is a disturbance in this market. And we recognized that there is a disturbance in this market because of precisely the restrictive measures we have taken to treat the coronary. We did not only recognise it, the European Commission recognised it, because the European Commission approved the financial aid that we have anticipated. So, with regard to the first issue, that is, if there is a disturbance and if there is a reduction of income in this production because of the coronary, the answer is that we have responded first, yes. We've taken steps to deal with them. I am pleased to hear that Mr Constantopoulos recognises these measures as important and crucial to strengthen the difficulty of producers. Note: You raise the issue - which we have identified - that ultimately a portion of producers from Atalo-Carnania - is not all of Aetolo-Carnania, because some Aetolo-Carnanes producers have said correctly - but also a portion of producers from Phthytida - are two areas which have this problem and I must say that this problem, together with you, has been identified by other Members, has been identified by Mr Varenmenos, has been identified by Mr Economou, so Mr Staikoras has identified this issue - they have not made the right statement that should have been made in the IAS. That's the disagreement, Mr. Constantopoulos. The U.S.S.S.S.H.A.P.A. is pulling out. The IACS is an information system. As far as I am concerned, this reflects. If you declare Callamon olive, he'll recognize beans olives. If you don't declare kalama olive, it can't turn it into Kalamon olive. I do not disagree with Mr Lebanese's argument, nor do I question the substance. However, I say to you that when this measure, when it was designed, the measure that we designed, the measure for which we requested the European Commission, the measure for which we were approved by the European Commission, was designed on the basis of IAC declarations. To decide the area payment, I have a series of bills to do. The accounts I make are as follows: I take the total production. I see price formation and demand. I see the impact on production. I see the acres. I am deciding on the amount of aid I wish to give. I define area support. That's the methodology. If the acres declared are not what they are, then obviously those who do not say do not receive the area aid. That's the situation. But now see what we can do to deal with it. I mean, that the situation of the measure does not suffer, nor is there anyone - let me say it - an exclusion, in the sense that we have put an artificial barrier to it. We have taken the statements as they were and they must be made. And I say again that you have statements in Haitolo-Carnania where others state what it really is for Kalamata olive and others state differently. The reason why this is happening, in other words because this has happened in the producers' statements, is to be investigated. So we need to see what we can do. You ask me: 'Will you open the CSCE statements to make corrective statements?' I would like to reply to you: 'No, I will not open them'. Why don't I open them? I will not open them up, because if they do, it means that they affect this measure. The measure has been approved at the moment. It can't change. So what we need to see is - and that is something we will consider - an additional measure to see what we have on this. On this additional measure we are working to see how we can cover the problem that has arisen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u21	Oh, oh, oh. Here, Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u22	Don't worry, Mr. President. And you eat olives, so we have to subsidise them to have them. We all need her olive and her polyphenols. Minister, we've known each other for thirty-five years. I know your commitment to the task of politics and democracy and I think that in your reply you have given us the direction, and Mr Constantopoulos and myself, that you will try to find a solution. We have a common place in how we understand the problem. Indeed, there has been a mistake by the services that gave a direction that has been distorted toward growers in Istanbul. It's probably in Fhotida, as you said. But we can fix it. I would like, in order to record it in the Minutes and to have a little sense of the producers concerned and what that corresponds to, to say the following: in fact, there are thirteen thousand and thirty-five acres that are stated correctly in the case of Itolocarnation. But there are also a hundred and twenty - seven thousand acres, which are obviously wrongly stated. So we're talking about them. For them we understand - and with your current position - that you too have the corresponding sensitivity. I understand - and I imagine the honourable Member too - the difficulty of reopening the OSCE in previous years, because this means, in practice, circumventing the measure adopted by the European Union. And I think our fellow producers in Ioannina are aware of this. Or we should, however, go ahead and find a solution that is immediate, horizontal and unified, because the amount is not so great in relation to the sums currently in existence in the European Union to cover the problems created by COVID -19, or, as you said, another supplementary measure must be found. In any case, we all realise that in the effort of this government to change the productive model of the country, one of the main horizons is to strengthen the primary sector, the verticalisation, the processing. In this context - and so that we can get there - we are all very well aware that we need to spend the next few months. As Mr Constantopoulos said two years ago, there have been problems with Kalamon olive oil. It is therefore in the interests of all of us - and of the President, in order to eat good Kalamon olives from Aetolokarnania - to be able to support, with one or another measure, this effort by the producers, the records of the IACC by one change next time, so that we do not have to deal with this problem again and that farmers, as well as in Aetolokarnania, can continue their work and possibly give another breath to the production process in the Greek region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I listened very carefully. In my village, in my home country, be it Dimitris or Dimitris, it is. So, whether or not Calamon olives or olive groves, table olives, we're talking about the same product. Therefore, if your position with regard to the OSE does not change, I would say find a solution to strengthen the table olive and of course the Kalamas olives. I listened very carefully to you. The Aetolokarnania producers, however, are waiting for you to strengthen them. Their costs are particularly high. Their profits today are zero. Already in recent years, they have had problems with the shortage of workers, with climate change that does not let the fruit mature as in the past, as well as with the high cost of production and especially with the Greekisations. And the coronary pandemic comes in, and it adds up and is growing up the problem. Exports have been frozen, warehouses have been filled with last year's crops and destruction is huge. Here, of course, is the crime of Hellenism and we see the introduction of olives from third countries, very low quality and low production costs, and then the baptism of Kalamata olives and leaving great profit to the scientists. Here, Minister, the Ministry has to take a stand, and your role is here, with systematic checks to deal with the phenomenon. Minister, the primary sector is a bet for all of us because it is fundamental - I would say - a pillar of our national economy. For all of us, it is confidence in his support. Farmers and farmers give Greek countryside their own struggle to support their families and the general social fabric. Today, as yesterday, producers do not feel that they are relying on as much as they should. Their problems are constantly growing. Their product prices are degrading, and what they receive from the state is tax burdens and constant delays, either in ELGA compensation or in problems caused by bureaucracy. They risk staying substantially, and now without aid because of the OSCE's declarations, as we have said. Because of baptism, be it Kalamas olives or table olives, some will not be able to be strengthened. Give us a solution. We expect development initiatives for the primary sector. All bets are, as I said, support for the primary sector. After all, as you know and know, Europe's borrowings are over. Therefore, the Greek world of countryside must be supported, so that we can have substantial support for the primary sector. Minister, they say too many that reduced production is attributed to extreme weather conditions. Indeed, the hail has created huge problems both in our region and bad weather have destroyed crops. But it is attributed, Minister, to the situation in which many farms have been found, and producers cannot take care of them because of economic problems. Here too, the Ministry has a duty to plan support for these producers and it needs - I would say - an integrated support plan for the primary sector, to take steps to absorb, compensate and shield their production. It is a question of respect for their contribution to our national economy, social cohesion and regional development, which we are evangelizing, however, dear Minister, it is a matter of respect for the history of our country, a purely rural economy with a dominant olive product. So today, run to give the support of the ELGA. Support the olive growers in our country, and particularly in Atolokarnania, in our region, as Mr Spilios Levanos has said, who knows the problems - and that is why we are tabling them here today - in order to provide solutions. Itolocarnania has been severely affected by both the "Jan" and the "January pandemic in particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u25	Please, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u26	And this with direct funding without subtitles, without asterisks, that is to say whether it relates to Kalamata olives or olive olive olives, table olives, as I said. Armor the country and guard against putting an end to the Hellenism. For all of us it should be that bet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u27	Mr Minister, you have the floor, although you have been extremely clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, I have nothing to add to what I said in my prototype on the matter of aid. I said we'll consider what potential we have. We know the problem and we will see how we can deal with it. But, to be clear, this problem needs an additional measure, so with all the limitations and difficulties it has every time to adopt an additional measure. But it's something we're looking at. I just want to say two words about what Mr Constantopoulos said. You cannot complain about the question of the ELGA and its aid and the compensation from the present Government. Not only did we run the issue of 'January', but also thanks to Parliament's partnership and will, we have excellent and special legislation, which we have triggered, so that they have already received the advances, these advances that I have referred to, and now those who have suffered 100% damage are paid, as have those who have been partially damaged. This in ELGA's history has not been. It's the first time. That is why there have been significant institutional changes, which Parliament has contributed, and I thank the parties that supported this initiative, because there have also been left-wing parties, mainly for not supporting this initiative. Let us also say this, who are participating in this Parliament in order to compensate farmers and who do not co-operate. Secondly, it was certainly possible because the ELGA was strengthened with money from the state budget. Money was given, otherwise it wouldn't be possible. The damage from the 'January' was too great. So, in the matter of compensation, I had to say that. Nor can you complain about the question of Hellenism by this government, because this is the government that has turned fraud into food and the violation of PDO products, but also in general of consumer fraud and has created a serious criminal framework, which I must say will work. For example, in another sector, in the milk sector, this year our producers have seen a price which they have long seen for many years and because of it. Just say something especially about olives. You should be aware that we are preparing a framework which will allow us to control this production more effectively in the interests of producers, because one of the issues raised by the pandemic is that we do not currently have harvest declarations, we do not have production declarations, we do not have processing declarations, we do not have marketing declarations. We therefore have a limited regime of control, which also facilitates the action of the fraudsters, namely, who trade and rename and "baptize" Greek products. But that is because there is an institutional gap. This institutional gap will be complemented, ladies and gentlemen, in order to be more effective in dealing with the Greekisations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u29	We move to the second under number 152/13-11-2020 in the first cycle of the SYRIZA MP - a Progressive Alliance of Mr. Georgios Psychoyou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Supporting the price of lemons on the market and protecting against thefts in production and equipment for Corinthian farmers". The question will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Voridis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Before entering the question - and I consider it to be my duty - to express my regret and warmest sympathy to the family and the relatives of the doctor of the House, Yiannis Metropoulou, a man of exquisite and as a scientist and also a friend for all of us who have contributed decisively with his services and we will always remember him as a human and a scientist. The second is the condemnation and denouncement of last night's events, because there has been an ordinance of repression and police violence, which once again took place in Athens and in other cities against protesters who fully respected the health protection measures, even Members and Heads of Parliament, and we must be concerned about that, Mr President. That is why I call, although it is not the first time as I said, to be the last, so that the rule of law is not further affected in the country. I'm passing fast on my question. Minister, I ask you the question of supporting the price of lemons, the gold for us in Corinthia, and the protection from thefts in the production and equipment of farmers. The continued imports from third countries and especially Turkey of citrus fruit and particularly lemons and other products at very low prices have brought our producers to a very difficult position. Markets have filled lemons of dubious quality, with production methods outside the European Union, with pesticides which are dangerous, at a very low price, when a large part of our production stays in trees and which sits at degrading prices, while our own producers are the victims of some traders. The audits are inadequate and have no effect, while in previous years there has been support for staff and resources and it has been effective. The phenomenon of thefts mainly in lemons and other agricultural products - grapes, apricots and others - as well as in facilities and equipment causes great damage to plant and infrastructure and increases production costs, ultimately reduces the income of producers. Because, for these reasons and also for exogenous factors, such as the constant extreme phenomena, the income of producers has become redundant, because the pandemic crisis has caused a very serious blow to the reduction of demand, the exclusion from the public markets and the inadequate, in our opinion, support measures for the government. What immediate steps will you take to bring the athletes and without control of imports of lemons from third countries, to support their price, to protect the health of consumers, to prevent the stubbornness and, together with the co-responsible ministries, how will you protect production and equipment from extensive and repeated thefts, first by preventing and suppressing such phenomena? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u31	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, on the question of thefts, I would like to say to you, which I really do know Corinthia in particular, but not just Corinthia. There is a more general problem, where criminal activity is developing, especially in the region. You understand that this isn't my responsibility, but I'll answer you because I have an information note from the relevant department. Therefore, I will tell you, making a more general representation on this matter. In Corinthia, a specific operational action plan has been drawn up and implemented, inter alia, to deal with theft of agricultural products. This is an update, which I have from the Ministry responsible, from the Ministry of Civil Protection. In addition to the purely police actions to prevent and prevent this form of infraction, regional police services are in constant cooperation with the relevant agencies and authorities. It should be noted that the competent police services of the above address, in cooperation with the relevant bodies — forests, municipalities, Regional Unit of Corinth — carry out methodological checks on open-air popular markets and on targeted rural areas, in which they demonstrate all the relevant actions as appropriate. I would like to point out that on 1 October of this year, a meeting was held with representatives of the agricultural cooperatives concerned, with the presence of the Director and the Deputy Director of the Corinth Police Directorate, and similar actions, meetings to address these issues regularly with local bodies. So I tell you what the answer from the Ministry of Civil Protection is about an issue that has been raised to me, I am very concerned about. We know it's important. Now, obviously, further action and a strengthening of policing is needed to deal with this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u33	Any thieves get caught? They're telling you in the report? Did they catch a thief?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u34	They don't say. That is why, if the honourable Member wishes to do more on this, he must ask the relevant Ministry, because I have to give you the information I have from the Ministry. Now, as far as this is concerned, however, which is my responsibility, and that is the issue of imports, I shall reply in general to my second language in general, so that I do not abuse the nobility of the President, I will answer you a little more in detail. The checks are carried out normally and are intensively carried out. We have an increase from 2019 to 2020 in lemons of 15%. It's not a colossal increase, but it's an actual and significant increase. However, this may also be due to an increase in demand. I shall return to the questions of controls and plant health - therefore, plant health controls - and import controls, to give you concrete information on how it is done, but assure you that at no point has the intensity of controls been established.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u35	Here, Mr. Psychoyte, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like us to be a little more specific. There was a coordinating control centre, which was set up by the previous government, led by a high-level police officer, who was obviously supervised by these sloppy and illegal imports. I want you to tell me where this center is, what you have done for this, and if our information is correct that it is deceived or functioning properly. The second has to do, obviously - and I am referring to a total of the circuits that dilute production - with the stages and path of these products - is it not? - which are channelled, how they are moved, where and how they are sold. We therefore call for all the parties involved to be punished who exploit the producers and illegally. And you told me what you have done about it, but because you only have responsibility in the logging block, we ask to know whether there are joint interventions and patrols to deal with these phenomena. I would like to put another point to you which has to do with lemons and, by the way, I would like to put it - if you are ready, you will answer - for the EUR 1,500 of the people's markets, because many lemon producers who had been excluded from the previous period because of the coronary measures are waiting together with other products when they will receive this aid, which will support the Corinthian society by reducing the income they have, so the whole of Corinthian society, because it is a chain in a rural prefecture. Some people have problems cultivating next year - and this will give them a breath - of course some people who have contacted us repeatedly are also facing survival issues. When, then, will also be given to whom? Will there be further relief measures due to the second lockdown for people in this category? And I close with the damages of the 'Janu', Minister, which you mentioned before, because I would like you to tell me - because there are also great complaints - who have been paid up so far - if you are ready, because this is the subject of another question - and if compensation has been granted to people who have less than 100% damaged, or to those who have 100%, because there are complaints, there are - I would say, strong information which says that these people who were beneficiaries on the basis of the ELGA findings, which have not been fully notified, have not been compensated until now, whether those who were 100% or those who were from 50% to 100%. And because you mentioned the Opposition, that's exactly why we took this position when the bill came, because we knew that the way you're going to regulate and implement this issue not only will it not reach those who have to - those of 100% or those over 50% - but we want you to tell us how much they have gone - if you're ready - and to whom. Because some may have been arbitraryly satisfied at first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u37	Here, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u38	First of all, Mr President, I would like to say something that I have in many places. Forestry no longer belongs to us. Since Mrs Birbil, if you remember, when she was transferred, Mr President, the responsibility of the Directorate-General for Forestry from the Ministry of Rural Development to the Ministry of the Environment has remained there. This is an issue, in my view, which I think the government should at some point see in its entirety. To see, in other words, the question of where forests should fall. It is a debate whether we should treat them as just a part of the environment or whether we should deal with them, as I believe they are, as integrated into the productive fabric, obviously with environmental management, as is the case with everything, as is the case with everything. We all want to have environmental responsibility and management. Let us now finish with the question and if time permits, we will then go to other issues that you have, by the way, raised. As far as the import into the country is concerned - because the problem you are locating is at the time of import - products of fresh fruit and vegetables, it is compulsory to submit a notification to the information system in the Register of Fresh Fruit and Vegetables Traders. This announcement is being made, otherwise it can't be imported, they won't come in. This register therefore acts as a system for the submission of digital communications, imports - exports - intra-Community trade. So when someone introduces, we're watching from the register that where he's doing it. And this registry has an internal risk analysis system. Because, as you can see, we cannot carry out physical checks on all consignments. It is something that is practically impossible. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So let's see what's going on there. In 100% of the imported consignments, document and identity checks are carried out. That's what's done at 100%. However, this is an identification check, let me speak, administrative, an identification check for administrative settlement, in accordance with applicable Union and national legislation. Physical control shall be carried out, according to the risk analysis made by the system. And he's done and he hasn't changed. It's who he was. So that's all done. But now listen to what's happened. Because the checks were intensive, there is also significant compliance with imported products. Intensive checks created and led to compliance when they saw they couldn't get in. So what I want to tell you with this is this: Be sure that the controls remain unrelenting and that they are fully intensified. But from there on, the findings may have been differentiated from 2019 to 2020, mainly because there is this reaction I am telling you. So, in my opinion, in the lemons, but also in other productions, one should go deeper in order to deal with these issues. I don't have time to answer you for the ELGA. I can only tell you in summary that the 100% of the allowances have been paid, where there is damage. And now that we're talking, he's paying for those who've been hurt less. However, you have not asked a question about it to be ready to answer you. But if you want more evidence, you can ask and I am happy to give you the particulars. As far as the people's markets are concerned, I tell you that EUR 1500 will be paid by the end of November, i.e. they will be credited to their accounts by the end of November.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u39	You've answered almost everything, Minister. We are now coming to the last question for the day, in the fourth question under number 162/16-11-2020, the first question from MP B2' West Athens area of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'The government grants 3 million euros for the alteration of the coronary to the fur farms'. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to respond to an inaccuracy. This detention of the two MPs, me and Mrs Sakova, was not made on the basis of the decision of the Chief of Police, as it did not recommend a course. You are not on your own. The Vice-President of Parliament is not on his way with another MP on their own. They just weren't letting us move. Leaving democracy behind, let's go a little bit and see the most daily. Already since yesterday and as a whole, there are many cases in western Macedonia unexplained by the pandemic. In other parts of the world, they have found that there is a diffusion and diffusion of the coronary, as well as a mutation in the mink farming areas, which are killed for furs. What is very clear is that in Greece we have three hundred families who live from it and I understand the government's dystomia to act. What I do not understand is why, when the Ministry of Development - not yours, Minister - gives such a scourge of millions to strengthen these units, it does not give this money for the healthy transition of these entrepreneurs and workers to rural development, to other areas which may not contribute to the coronary, to respect elementary, animal welfare and so on. and respect the European directive. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A slight tolerance, Mr President. I shall read you from the directive of the European Council 9558: 'The rearing of fur animals is prohibited if they are expected to have harmful effects on the health and welfare of the animals'. And specializes: "If the animal belongs in a species that cannot be adapted to captivity without any problems for its well-being". And the European Commission's survey says that, as far as farmed animals are concerned - in Greece, they live up to two to three per cage, in very small cages - we have many cases that chew their limbs, mutilate their tails, have psychogenic diseases and all of this is in conflict with the European directive. That is why many other countries in the European Union, such as Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina - outside the European Union, but also in Europe -, Czechoslovakia, Croatia, Norway, Luxembourg, Serbia - outside the European Union but in Europe -, Slovakia, Slovenia and Ireland, and soon followed by Bulgaria, Lithuania, Montenegro and Ukraine, have banned the rearing of such animals or are preparing to ban it. So it is twofold question: If you are ready to commit yourself to what is necessary for us, for a transition plan, so that these families and workers can be able to use this money that you are giving out of the Ministry of Development, but also the aid given by the Ministry of Development - to go to healthy activities and also to discuss a little what has so far been done to protect workers and society from the dispersion of the virus. I am going to go further into my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u41	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. In your question, you ask me whether we are faced with the possibility of ending rearing fur animals. That's what you're asking me. Right? Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u43	Yes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u44	So the answer here is negative. This is not the case with the government. You ask me, now, whether the 3 million to be granted to support fur animals farmers because of the damage suffered by these producers because of the restrictive measures taken throughout Europe for the coronary, if we can give them a transition. I can assure you that with the 3 million, which will be given once and, in any case, given for this purpose and not for something else, it is obviously not possible to serve any kind of transition. Any transition is much more demanding and costly. I don't know if we've closed this chapter. I guess we shut it down. My answer is clear. You're asking me about the issue of the treatment of the coronary. The truth is: A coronary has appeared on specific farms, and the methodology we follow is that the EGE controls workers on the farms. Corono cases have been detected in five and four, nine and one, ten rearing, of which five are located in Kozani, four in Kastoria, one in Grevenna. After a worker's case has been found to exist, an examination shall be made as to whether there is a coronary in animals. Of what I mentioned, two of the results were negative, one was positive and the others were positive, but there is insecurity as to the result and a repetition is recommended. So this is the situation, if you like, in terms of farms. The measures taken in terms of biosafety can be developed in my dentistry. It is an extensive biosecurity protocol that is being observed. And because somewhere you talked about mutated strains, strains have already been assigned where there was a coronary in animals to perform laboratory testing and see if there is any mutation. And we are waiting until the end of the week for the answer to these laboratory findings. I'll talk to you in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u45	Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the reason why, as far as the coronary is concerned, is because we have this unexplained number of cases in western Macedonia and as you know, Kastoria and since the first wave of coronary has had huge problems, like Kosani. And we're talking about areas that don't even have an intensive treatment unit. You referred to the questions I asked you. Questions were too much. It was a page of questions, which were attached to the two written questions that were never answered, even though the time had to be answered. One was before summer and the other immediately after the new period of operation of the Parliament. I've read your unit management protocol. What concerns me is that the complaints at least are that you did not control this unit even when there were dead animals. I would like you to confirm or deny this complaint. Is it true that there were dead animals and the veterinary services didn't check? Is it true that you're late to do the tests at these units? Also, what about the pigs, the ornithophary, the flocks? Have the services started doing checks on them? And what is the provision for protecting the three hundred workers and their families in the farms? Finally, I would like to convey to you the written complaint I received from the Panhellenic Philozozozootic Federation, representing other pro-zootic societies, that you are not prepared to listen to them. And I would like to invite you to be in dialogue with these bodies because this is a huge issue. We are also at risk with a fine pan-European one, as I read you from the analysis of the directive and what is provided for, but also from the studies. Most countries are preventing fines by closing farms at the moment. In Greece, the turnover falls constantly. In order to show that you support these families and these workers and possibly businessmen, you continue to support these businesses that you will allow them to close on the basis of the law of the market, when we can today, in healthy terms, help sustainable transition to an activity that respects animal welfare, as provided for by European directives and national laws.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u47	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, there may also be a difference of ideological and political understanding here. If someone closes, because they're not viable, they'll shut down, because they're not viable. We don't have much to do about it. If, on the other hand, we regulate it, that is different. So here we have a difference of approach and philosophy. On the question of aid - let me say this once again for a long time here, let us at some point be able to inspire it and reach agreement - state aid is, first of all, forbidden. How many times do I have to tell you this? They are allowed exceptionally because we have taken restrictive measures and prevent the operation of the market in order to deal with the pandemic. This is a general rule that exists in the European Union. De minimis is exceptionally allowed, because they are precisely minor and are very small in the face of all the direct payments received by producers in the context of what they used to call 'the subsidy', direct payments. This is the case within the framework of the common agricultural policy. Another type of aid does not exist. How many times do I have to say it? Not allowed. They lead to recovery, to an insult to competition. So the only aid that is now being given, all you hear about aid, is because there has been a fall in the European Rules of Procedure which allows precisely because we have taken measures restricting economic activity. You are telling me that these units will not be viable. If they are not sustainable, they will not be sustainable. They'll do what they have to do. They will close, go bankrupt, clean, they will not be refined, they will do what is foreseen by the mechanisms in place of the market. We are now doing what we are doing is giving support, because that is precisely because there is an international issue - it is not even a local issue - with furs, which concerns this production activity. Before I come to the biosecurity measures, which you've overcome, you also tell me I've never seen prosperous. There's no philosophical I've never seen. I'm in touch with all philosophicals. I don't know what this is, because they're different. However, either with me or with my associates or with the Undersecretaries whoever wants to speak. For this matter, we have been disturbed and he wants to contact the ministry with a specific prozootic. We have told her five times to come to the Ministry to discuss and it remains to identify an appointment, a meeting with Mrs. Arabatzis. So that's not true. We've all seen them, and we're talking to everyone. In the case of biosecurity measures, when suspects are counted against furs, a category-by-class record shall be made. You also said something to clarify it. There's not the slightest flaw in it. As soon as he came to our knowledge, there is either a question of death or a suspected case of the disease, the procedure was initiated immediately. When I tell you right away, within 24 hours. As long as a complaint has come to us, we need to know that there is such a matter. If we don't know, we really can't act. There is therefore a record by category of the number of all pets, mammals that have been diseased, died or may have been infected. The competent veterinary authorities and the Ministry shall immediately be informed centrally. Subsequently, every visit to the rearing begins to be checked. Appropriate means of disinfection shall be used at the entrance and exit of the holding. Any person entering and leaving the holding must take appropriate measures. The necessary hygiene measures and the use of personal protective equipment are respected by persons entering and leaving the holding and the bodies of animals on the holding are managed by landfill, in accordance with the rules laid down in the Regulations. A epizootiological survey shall be carried out and the entry into and exit from and from the holding of live animals shall be prohibited, the exit from the holding of dead animals, feed, tools, materials, waste, faeces, furs and other objects, a prohibition on the movement of persons, pets, mammals, vehicles, equipment from and to the holding without the authorisation of the competent veterinary service. The protocol is complete and there is a corresponding protocol - I do not have the time to tell you this too - in the case now that we have an established case and its management. So we are in this situation. You should know that we are taking all the measures - not to have any concern about this - and we are keeping a close eye on the situation in these farms in order to protect public health above all. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u49	The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-18-S1-commons.u50	With the consent of the House at 10.39 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 19 November 2020 at 10.30 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
